ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Senate, I propose supplementing the agenda with points: the Energy Efficiency Change Act and considering it as point seven; the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law and considering it as point eight; the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union and consider it as a ninth point; the Act on the Integrated Qualifications System and its examination as a tenth point; the Act amending the Act amending the Act on income tax on natural persons and considering it as an eleventh point; the Act amending the Act on social insurance of farmers and certain other laws and consider it as point 12; the Act amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act and considering it as point 13. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. [[Objection!]] Objection, please. We proceed with the vote on... [[And that's an objection...]] [[Objection, objection.]] [[But to all points or to...]] [[Voice from the room: All hands.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Which one?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, perhaps a clarification...]] [[I object...]] Mr. Marshal, do you wish to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u2	I object... [[Okay, so we're gonna vote.]] ...in view of the introduction... But I'd like to say why. Yes? [[There you go.]] In view of the introduction of the law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. It is a law of the Constitution; a law which changes the relationship, arrangement, balance between the judicial, executive and legislative authorities; a law which restrains the Constitutional Tribunal in such a way that this safeguard, which is introduced into the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, will cease to work. Well, when the fuse is removed, we may be in a catastrophic situation. Many times here, in this Chamber, when the opposition of the previous term of office thought that the majority was voting in an unauthorized way, she cried out and said: there is a Constitutional Tribunal, we will address the Constitutional Tribunal! And after these statutory changes, there will be no such possibility, because the Court will be paralyzed. I therefore object to the introduction of this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. We are voting on my proposal. Who's in favour? [[Voices from the hall: But for what? For what?]] In favour of the proposal I have put forward, which is to supplement the agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 53 senators voted in favour, 23 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 1]] So the motion's been passed. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 55 and the report of the Commission In print No 55 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At today's meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act was adopted by the Sejm on 22 December 2015. During the discussion on this law, observations were made regarding the risk of serious obstacles and the deletion of points 1 and 2 in Article. 1 as a result of the fact that the definition concerning the import of natural gas into the territory of the Republic of Poland within the framework of intra-Community acquisitions or imports within the meaning of the excise duty provisions, as well as the definition concerning the amount of transactions of the final customer, may pose a certain risk of non-constitutionality. At the request of the senators, we proposed to delete these two points. In general, the Act extends the Energy Efficiency Act by one year and allows the application of the entire Act for the next year. I therefore submit an amendment to the Article. 1, deleting points 1 and 2. And as for the whole, we are asking the Senate to approve the attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: No, thank you very much.]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Nobody came forward for discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on the amendment of the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 56 and the report of the Commission In print No 56 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Gawada, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At today's meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the committee also considered the Act adopted by the Sejm on 22 December this year on the amendment of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act on Energy Law. The Commission asks the Senate to adopt a draft resolution on this matter. During the discussion of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Energy Law, 4 amendments were tabled. Amendment 1 is such an amendment that I should say in letters, because the date of application of this law has been wrongly clarified. We therefore propose that in Article. 1 in point 4, in Article. 222 words "30 June 2016' replace "1 July 2016'. Amendment 2 concerns the amendment to the Renewable Energy Sources Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 5 in point (a) b, in point (a). c before the words "Article." Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The words "Article 4' shall be added. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 14 and 19. This amendment is justified in order to maintain the current date of entry into force on 1 January 2016 of the provisions for prosumers related to the possibility of using the 6-month energy balancing period on the grid, namely Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 14 and 19. This is a change in the production of electricity in micro-installations for own use. The amendment shall be consistent with the provisions already in force. 4 and 19 of the Act of 20 February 2015 on Renewable Energy Sources, which introduce simplifications for prosumers producing electricity for their own needs. According to the explanatory memorandum, the purpose of the draft law is also to postpone the entry into force of the provisions of Chapter 4 by 6 months. The amendment is in line with the objective of the draft law, which does not entail any impediment to micro-installations for the production of electricity for their own use. Amendment 3: in Article 2 in point 1 in point (a) in the mouth. 1c the words "from 1 January 2016" shall be inserted after the words "electrically produced." This is a clarification amendment, the point being that there should be no interpretation freedom as to how long the support adjusted by a factor of 0,5 for certificates of origin has entered into force. Amendment 4 concerns Article. 4. Here the two words used are "art." Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, This is an amendment which makes the existing implementing provisions adopted on the basis of the relevant article in the current version remain valid until the date of entry into force of the implementing provisions adopted on the basis of the relevant articles of that law. I would also like to mention that an amendment had been tabled earlier concerning the deletion of the article in its entirety. 4. There was a discussion on this subject, but as a result of the consensus and ultimately the vote, this amendment was not accepted. The discussion also discussed the subject of the future revision of the Renewable Energy Act, and in particular the need to address the damage to wind farms in the immediate proximity of buildings. This calls for a broader approach and discussion as if it pointed out that such a broader, larger amendment would be very much needed in the future. But from this point of view, I would also like to thank all the senators, especially Senator Augustine, for the fact that in some way through consensus they have also adopted this, as it were, signed up to the complex amendments and that these amendments have been accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u7	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Senator Rotnicka.]] Senator Rotnicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I am asking the rapporteur a question because I think there is a mistake in Amendment 1. And if not, I am surprised that the words "30 June 2016' are replaced by "1 July 2016'. I think this is a mistake. Or is that how it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u9	No, it's not a mistake, that's the way it's supposed to be. They're supposed to be replaced... [[Break day...]] 'Cause if you leave a record like that, it'd be one day without a bill. [[Well, I was a little surprised. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u10	Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I have two questions. First. Were there any consultations with organisations that are in Poland dealing with renewable energy in the scope of this amendment? Because the amendment is small, but mostly significant from a financial and functional point of view. And the other. Could the rapporteur give us a closer look at what was at the heart of the transposition of the entry into force of the law, particularly as regards prices July 1st? What were the grounds for delay? [[He already told me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u12	As far as the first question is concerned, Senator, it should be addressed to the Members of the applicants. There is an applicant here, and I think that also as far as the detail you asked in the second question is concerned, the applicant is also able to approximate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u13	Are there any more questions? No. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u14	Mr. Marshal, I would ask someone to answer these two questions, if that's even possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u15	You're welcome. [[Mr. Marshal, I just have a question: can I answer from this place, or should I go to the podium?]] If you don't mind, you can answer from the point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u16	Ladies and gentlemen! The first question concerned a public consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware that the subject is socially sensitive, but these public consultations were held at the time of the main act. We're just moving the date of entry into force of Chapter 4 at this point. The project was notified as a parliamentary project, ladies and gentlemen, for one more reason. Well, not only did we want to move the entry into force of Chapter 4 by 6 months, but above all we wanted to introduce a new auction system that would start on 1 January. Why? Because, in our view, if we had not amended those provisions which would have entered into force from 1 January 2016, we would have led to such a situation that in auctions that would start after 1 January, a dominant position on the renewable energy market would have been given certain sources of green energy, namely wind farms, as is currently the case. And in the six months that the government needs to come up with new solutions, we want, first, to change the rules and to regulate the construction of wind farms, secondly, to prepare solutions that will allow us to support greener energy sources such as biogas and biomass more effectively. I'll just remind you that when it comes to energy from wind power plants, it's green energy, but it's unstable. Very dependent on the weather. And energy obtained from biogas or biomass is independent from the weather. In addition, this would allow us to manage the waste from agricultural production, from farming. There are also possibilities to generate energy from municipal waste. Therefore, according to the government, it is appropriate for 6 months to postpone the entry into force of Chapter 4, to prepare in the meantime rules on wind farms and at the same time to change rates That's what you asked me, too. They would be as attractive to other green energy producers as possible. I would also like to add that, with the amendment of the Act, we raise by 25% the energy price that prosumers can... Excuse me, we're picking up 25%. the price for which prosumers can sell energy. We also have information from the Ministry of Energy that the possibility is being considered that those prosumers who decide to start putting energy into the grid after 1 January, but before 1 July, could benefit from those rates, which will apply from 1 July. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you if this answer fully satisfies you. [[Mr. Senator?]] [[I understand, Mr President, that there were no consultations in this area at the stage...]] Mr. Senator, since these regulations were to enter into force from 1 January, we did not have these consultations. But I'm not ruling out that any change in the bill itself is gonna come along. I will also stress that the aim of applicants is in no way to harm these small green energy generators up to 3 kW and up to 10 kW. Hence, among others. these announcements... the solutions that are contained in the amendments tabled today.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. The text of the Act is contained in print No 52 and the committee's report In print No 52 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Jan Zarin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 22 December this year, the Sejm passed a law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. The law was the result of a government initiative, namely the Ministry of Science. It was a government initiative of the current government, but this bill, this project, I would say, was in the process of continuing work between the old government and the new government. The Act is primarily the result of a situation of some necessity in which the government of the Republic of Poland found itself. The point is that the EU Directive of 2013 requires Member States to make a statutory provision entering into the common acquis of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union, and the deadline for implementing that Directive is approaching very quickly. This is January 2016. It can be said that, on the one hand, the Act is a further sequence of laws of 2008 and, on the other hand, it includes new threads. On the one hand, the authors of this law try to make it shorter, simplified and, on the other hand, some new solutions are being introduced. One such new solution is the so-called European Professional Card. But it is a big bill, and I do not want to describe it in its entirety, and this is not my role as rapporteur. I would like to say that during today's session of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, which met this morning at 8.00, the discussion was rather fragile. In fact, the only debater was me, and probably that's why I became the rapporteur for that point in the program. I had questions about certain provisions of the Act and my doubts were resolved in the course of the discussion. The Commission calls for the law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union to be finally adopted without amendments. If there are any specific questions, I will try to answer them if I can. I understand that there is also a representative of the Ministry and will be able to clarify... Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Science and Higher Education has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Welcome to the meeting. [[Senator Bobko...]] You're welcome, Senator, Minister. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The most important thing has been said here is that the law has actually been prepared by our predecessors as a fulfilment of a certain necessity, which follows from the EU directive adopted in 2013. This is a fulfilment, so to speak, timely, i.e. in this case the deadline is until 18 January 2016. It was my duty to recommend this law to both the High House, the Sejm and the State. Well, I'm doing it out of duty. But I would like to share on this occasion some reflection, which, in my opinion, is also important when it comes to this discussion that awaits us at the end of the day. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the situation with regard to law-making is that, on the one hand, the law is intended to ensure the implementation of one of the fundamental European ideas, that is, the idea of freedom, free movement, to provide a certain comfort for citizens connected with the fact that a citizen who has certain qualifications in his own country can easily benefit from these professional qualifications in another country. But on the other hand, the system of law-making works in such a way that the legislator is trying to, or actually is obliged, in a law that has the size of a book and refers to dozens of other laws, i.e. dozens of other books... There he tries to properly catalog and predict all situations related to the fact that the example of Kowalski leaving Poland is to take certain steps to recognize his qualifications in another country. We've gotten used to it, but the effect is that we're creating a law that is extremely complicated and which, in my opinion, is more of a senator here than... It is becoming increasingly difficult to apply and is becoming less understandable. Therefore, we are increasingly on the path of legal disputes. For this reason, for example, the Constitutional Tribunal is accused of various cases arising from the complexity of the law. This discussion of the Constitutional Court would be much simpler if we did not create a law that was difficult to interpret afterwards. That's the kind of attention I'm getting from myself, and I'm really sorry to share it with you, a little bit as a novice. And the Senator, and the Minister But I feel obliged to share it with you. It is also, in a sense, an appeal to you, to all of us as parliamentarians, to try to make some effort beyond divisions and not to create such a complicated law, in the name of other legitimate ideas. Because here the idea is absolutely right and I think that none of us are against it, but the degree of complexity of the law can de facto not serve this idea in everyday life. As for the detailed solutions of this law, which, as I said, is complicated, if you ask me questions, I will try as far as I can. As much as I was able to prepare for this speech The answer is yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the Integrated Qualifications System. The text of the Act is contained in print No 57 and the committee's report In print No 57 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Józef Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is long awaited by all those who have anything in common with the education of each level, a law that regulates the functioning of a certain kind of educational market In addition, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The main aim is to ensure that all types of training provided by different institutions can take place on condition that they comply with strict requirements and end up with the relevant documents set out in that Act. This law is also very large in volume, so to speak, but it seems to me that this is one of the most expected regulations. In the vote, the members of the committee were unambiguously so and therefore I ask the High House to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of Minister Teresa Wargocka of the Ministry of National Education. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to cordially ask you to adopt the agenda for the meeting of the law mentioned in this item. That's a short notice. The bill lasted eight years. The work in this area has been financed by EU funds of 68 million, but the European Union has made a condition for Poland's continued use of money to improve citizens' competences under the Lifelong Learning Programme. It has put in place the condition that a further tranche, for the period 2014/2023, will be launched if we organise the market for professional qualifications in order to ensure that further EU funds for citizens and, inter alia, for improving the functioning of the labour market are spent more effectively. We are aware that we have closed this bill within a month, because this year was final... There was a condition for the bill to be passed now. I will honestly say that we will be asking for an amendment, we already have a few comments, but for the moment, in order to continue working on the Integrated Qualifications System and not lose funds from the next perspective, please do so quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the Act on personal income tax. The text of the Act is contained in print No 53 and the committee's report In print No 53 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Two committees, namely the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, took place today in the morning. It concerned a law adopted by the Sejm on 22 December 2015 amending the Act amending the Act on personal income tax. There was a very short meeting of two committees, which is why there was virtually no discussion. Only Senator Klein, who, I believe, rightly pointed out that we were able to implement the changes concerning this law as senators and, of course, Members of Parliament earlier, as far as I am concerned. According to the statement, which is delayed, it will not escape, we are doing so today. The two committees therefore request the High Senate to adopt a revision of the Individual Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u28	Would you care to zoom in on... [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] It's on, but I think it needs to be tilted... [[The microphone works well. Then you're welcome.]] Would you care to give us a brief description of the exact change in the wording of paragraph 16? Honestly, as I compare these two records, I hardly see any difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u29	It's just... The amendment of this law is mainly about narrowing down the number of people who might be affected by this high tax. It is a group of people who can benefit from or benefit from a voluntary scheme to leave. And then it would be... Let me put it this way: for a group of people this is not fair, so we narrow down a group of people to those whose checks can go into hundreds of thousands or even millions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u30	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan... No, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, I promised as the first senator... Senator Jan Rulewski. [[Mr. Marshal, thank you for your kindness, but I don't want to participate in the first one...]] But you were the first one, and that's why I'm the first one to give you the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u31	Minister... [[No, no, no, Senator.]] [[This is the Senator Rapporteur.]] Mr. Minister and Mr. Senator. Maybe you'll be the minister... And the question is addressed to the Minister and to the rapporteur. You were present at the Senate meeting, during which many benevolent of this law raised the issue of its flaws, oversights, but above all the pace at which it was processed. So, in other words, I say this as a trade unionist, the consultation with trade unions has been discontinued. My question is: was it considered at the committee meeting that this amendment, which, I understand, is another repair repair, should be consulted with the trade unions? Were there unionists at the meeting? What was their attitude toward this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u32	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u33	There were no union representatives at the two committees today. As I have already mentioned, the committees brought, without any objection, to the Senate, so that, as I said before, I will make amends, so I will determine, what became an oversight on November 25 of that year, because then... [[...possibility of another mistake.]] I don't know what other mistake you're talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u34	Senator Robert Dowhan now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u35	I'm partly referring to my colleague's question. In fact, then there were raised voices about faultyness, about the fact that it is done in a hurry, that there is no consultation... Why didn't we lean on it then, but now we're going back to something that was already there? Isn't it better to do something slowly, in peace, at the right time and have it done well than do It's just to show that something's missing?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u36	Senator, here's what I'm going to say: what was passed a month ago was passed. Today we're making a change to this bill. And I ask the High Senate to approve this change.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u37	Thank you very much. Anybody else... Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u38	All I'd like to say is that the bill was good, and this one's better. And we all know the enemy of good is better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u39	Now, Mr. Senator, we're asking questions, this is not a debate, this is a discussion. You're welcome, Senator Dowhan, and the question is, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u40	Yes, I have a question. Do we know how many people will be covered by this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u41	No, you don't. I'm sure it'll be a narrow group of people, and that's for sure. How many people are they? I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u42	Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? No. Thank you very much, senator. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Konrad Raczkowski. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Konrad Raczkowski: No, thank you.]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question to the Minister? [[I can.]] Yes? Senator Grodzki. Minister, in that case, because there are a series of questions, please go to the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u43	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I repeat my question to the Minister. I have two texts of the laws before me, also the text of the law passed on 25 November, which we said would ricochet those in which this criminal law or the additional law, as our fellow countrymen already call it, was not aimed. I'm comparing these two texts, and I see, frankly, that the differences are minimal. I fear that the possibilities of interpretation of tax offices will continue to punish 70% of those who should not experience this. Would you like to explain to us precisely the differences in the records between these two documents? Because, as the Germans say, einmal ist keinmal, if someone made a mistake once, it's not important, but if we make a mistake twice as the Senate, then someone will say we're silly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u44	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u45	Dear Senator, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the senator's question, there is no possibility of such an interpretation error for a simple reason. That is, in the original version of the law, which was amended, this provision was indeed inaccurate and there was such a fear, or actually certainty, that e.g. in the case of collective departures, workers who have not carried out management activities would be subject to such a tax. However, in the new proposal for a law, there is a clear provision of management activities, i.e. it only covers management and does not apply, e.g. in the case of voluntary group departures, to workers who do not carry out management activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u46	Wait a minute, wait a minute. Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm not sure you were involved in this bill. If so, you may remember the benevolent voices of this law, concerning chimneys, the money that has been levied improperly or bypassing the law. And do you also remember that in my argument with Senator Dobrzyński, I claimed that this could hit the secretary? And do you also remember the fact that Senator Shark sent a statement to your hands, in which she warned that this bill would not actually hit those who have these briefings, but ordinary union workers, secretaries, individuals covered by the law? However, my question is more precise: did you complete the review of the briefings and bonuses set, both for the managing party and for the employees, in order to avoid the third amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u48	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u49	Mr. Marshal, Minister, in this spirit of briefing... Does the ministry count the number of people... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Who else? You?]] Yeah, 'cause I'm waiting for the Minister to get something to write. [[There you go, there you go.]] Minister, the question is whether there is a calculated number of people who will be subject to this briefing. That's one thing. And the other thing: I'd like to ask you, Minister... Because comments have been made that the law gives the possibility of such an interpretation that the amount of checks is a net amount, so the tax will be paid by the employer. Isn't there such a danger? I'd like the Minister to resolve these doubts. Because, of course, the worst thing would be if we had to correct it for the third time. Because there will be the possibility of such a gateway: this is treated as net, and the tax will be paid by the company of the person who leaves the bet.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u50	Thank you very much. One more question. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u51	Senator Czarnobaj asked me what I wanted to ask, which is the number of people subject to this tax. And since one of the senators has rightly said that better is the enemy of good, and that bill was good, and this is better, I want to say that the next step is the best. But I hope we don't do that grading in this room anymore. [[Voices from the hall: No, it'll be even better.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u52	Okay, thank you very much. Yet, Minister, Senator Rulewski. And now... Would anyone else like to ask... Senator Dowhan. Okay, but later. Now, Mr. Senator Rulewski and the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u53	Let me put it this way, period. I would like to return to the question that I have asked the rapporteur: have you consulted employers' and employers' organisations on this matter? But here's the side question. It is known that the chimney bill was sealed, but it is also known I'll admit it. That it has been sealed over a long period of time. Don't you think that it should be verified in some way by carrying out its review, its practice?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u54	You're welcome, Minister, to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, maybe I'll try to answer you one at a time. There's been such comments before, yes. Rather, there were doubts of an interpretative nature, which could indeed have occurred during subsequent checks on the implementation of such contracts. And this record, I want to stress, clearly eliminates interpretational doubts in this area, there is no such threat here. Even at the stage of work on this amendment, it would be inappropriate to report it in a different form, extending it, for example. enumeratively a directory of services that would be subject to the activities of a legally concluded contract under the employment relationship. We do not know what number of people will be subject to this law for a simple reason. In principle, it is not possible to carry out such an assessment. I mean, we've been tempted to try to analyze it, but we still haven't gotten an answer from the treasure minister we're talking about in relation to the group we're talking about, just and exclusively to the Treasury companies. As we know, State Treasury companies will be in a minority rather than a dominant position when it comes to employees who would be subject to this law. Why is this not possible? She can only be based on estimates that will be more or less reliable. The estimate would, in my opinion, be so unbelievable that it wouldn't be within the limits of error. The only thing we're going to have if the Treasury Minister writes back to us is how many people this might involve in the Treasury companies. When it comes to local government units, it's basically... Well, I don't want to say that this information is impossible to obtain, but it's certainly very difficult. Furthermore, we must remember that individual employment relationships are always shaped by an employee with an employer, and therefore there is no obligation to inform what they are based on. As to whether or not there was a consultation, let me say this: it was not a government project, there was no such consultation. As far as the chimney bill is concerned, let me put it this way: indeed, it should be... In my opinion, it should be reviewed and it is certainly work for the future, so that there is no situation that de facto the chimney law has been omitted long ago and not even on the basis of seals, and the system of continuous action introduced what this law on the amendment of the law on income tax on individuals, with the printing of Seym No 136, is trying to patch.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u56	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal! Mr Minister, neither the Senator rapporteur nor the Minister has answered how many people will be covered... But do you know the number of budget receipts that are estimated if this bill comes into force? Because I understand that she's brought in to increase the budget revenue, and she's not done against someone. Unless it's the other way around... [[Is there another senator who wishes to ask a question to the Minister? I don't see anyone willing...]] I'm still... [[Another one? Well, go right ahead, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you. Do you not fear that the introduction of such a tax will affect the fate of the companies of the Treasury, from which professionals will flee, and that people will be taken into office without appropriate qualifications, experience? There has been such an example recently, for example, in the Polish State Railways company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u58	Please, Minister, answer two questions from Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u59	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! As far as budgetary revenue is concerned, there are no estimates of what budgetary revenue is and can't actually be. For a simple reason: first, it would be necessary to know exactly what the salaries recorded in management contracts are so that this can be calculated. And this is not publicly available information. So to answer the question fully, I'm going to say it's not about the budgetary impact, because it's going to be marginal. This is about the effect, as I understand it, of social justice and well-understood public good, which in this case should be achieved to some extent and the budgetary effect is secondary. Because the tax system and the tax as an instrument cannot be an end in themselves, they are intended to serve the economy. In my opinion, this instrument serves both the economy, equalising economic competitiveness and the well-informed obligation to preserve social justice, which I believe has also been violated. With regard to the fate of the companies of the Treasury in the context of the implementation of this law, whether the effects will be obtained by professionals... Well, ladies and gentlemen, the pathology is that people with so-called. erki, i.e. the Marshals of the Sejm, the Senate, ministers, the President of the Council of Ministers, the President receives so embarrassingly low salaries. If the prime minister of the government, with a service of 20 years, earns maximum or can earn 16 grand with a gross hook, because this is a gross amount, the president, with full service of years, can earn maximum 21 thousand with a hook, and the president's wife, no matter who it is, can't work, then I ask if it's fair, whether it's normal at all. 'Cause I don't think you can call it normal. Therefore, when we talk about the briefings of the presidents, when the responsibility of the head of government, of any government, is at all incomparable with the responsibility of the president of any company, even the world... Well, I think what the senator was polite to note is secondary, i.e. Whether or not it's gonna have a bigger impact. I don't think she's gonna have any.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u60	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u61	Dear Marshal, Minister! Well, I have to agree with you about what you said. I must agree with the fact that those who rule the state who are prime ministers, marshals, ministers earn an embarrassing little. That's the truth. But also the market decides it. I'm already talking about business. Who's making all the money? We have examples of how much money you make in banks, how much money you earn by the heads of companies listed on the stock exchange, etc., etc. I'm afraid that in this chaos after the introduction of this bill, which we correct after a month 'Cause it's been a month since November 21st, and we're correcting this bill, and maybe we're gonna fix it again. This tax actually hits people who are only in local governments or companies of the State Treasury. And competitiveness is based on other rights. And I'm afraid we're gonna have a situation, which I mentioned earlier, that we're gonna be looking for someone who's willing to take a stand, because either it's gonna be under fire, or it's gonna be embarrassingly underpaid, and consequently, the impact on the financial result from which we should account for managers, CEOs and corporate boards, including Treasury companies... Because they're valid to us. For us today the stock exchange, which has been at the lowest level for eight years and on which all listed companies of the Treasury after the turmoil taking place in the Polish Parliament, are at an embarrassingly low level, are below the values. Let's just look at the real accounting value they have today. So for this new year and for Christmas, Minister, I wish that we would prepare ourselves well for this, as well as for other laws, before we make any decisions, because this has not been the case so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u62	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 54 and the report of the Commission In print No 54 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report on the work of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the amendments contained in the Act of 22 December 2015 on the revision of the Social Insurance Act of farmers and certain other laws. It is a parliamentary project. The proposed amendments to this law are the following. Step 1. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 59 (1) (a) 1 and 2 shall be replaced by the following: the President of the Kasa shall be appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers at the request of the Minister responsible for rural development. The President of the Council of Ministers shall dismiss the President of the Kasa. Step 2. The President of the Cashier may have one deputy or deputy. The Deputy President of the Kasa shall be appointed by the Minister responsible for Rural Development at the request of the President of the Kasa. The Minister for Rural Development shall dismiss the Deputy President of the Kasa. Lithium b. In the mouth. 4 The introduction to the calculation is replaced by the following: the position of the President of the Cashier and the Deputy President of the Cashier may be taken by a person who has a higher education, is a Polish citizen, fully benefits from public rights and, fourthly, has not been convicted by a final judgment for a deliberate crime or tax offence. Point (c): Paragraph 1 shall be deleted. Fifty-five. Step 2. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 59 a paragraph. 1 is replaced by the following: selection of candidates for the vacant post in Kasa, excluding the posts referred to in Article. 59 (1) (a) 4 and Article 4 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Similar provisions apply to all agricultural agencies, namely the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency. These provisions also apply to the Veterinary Inspection and Agricultural Advisory. The Commission proposes that the amendments proposed in the Law be adopted without amendments. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Kilian. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have questions. I have asked similar questions at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to the Minister, but I have not received an answer because the Minister has stated that there is no government position for the contested law. I would like to inform the High House that there is also no opinion of the Legislative Office on this bill. And speaking of questions... First question. What's so wrong with the last law that the government majority you represent is trying to change it? Please give some examples. And second question. What solutions in the procedated bill will give better results for the selection of executive positions? Here too, I ask for a few examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u66	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Here's the answer: all the senators know our program. One agency will soon be created instead of three agricultural agencies. This is intended to improve the operation of the agricultural market and farmers, as well as to tap this service. That's one thing. Changing the appointment as presidents of these agencies and those other entities that I have listed from holding competitions for appointment... I think he's also yours... Let's agree that the High House will also consider it deliberate... There is a great lack of confidence in the competitions conducted. It is no secret that, as a rule, especially in recent years, it has happened that we knew the candidate first and then the competition was held. And that's why, in my opinion, This is my private assessment, but I think that the Minister will also respond to the above-mentioned question, the form in question and the provisions discussed here will be more favourable.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine. And who else? [[Senator Rulewski.]] And Mr. Senator Rulewski. Now, Senator Augustine, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u69	Mr. Senator, I'd like you to explain to us. Since, for the first time, the law on KRUS was not examined in the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which provisions lie under the repealed paragraphs. In respect of the President of the CRUs and the Heads of the Agency. That's one thing. Secondly, please explain to us why the provisions in question concern not only agencies that you wish to combine, but also a huge group of very important institutions where expertise should go before political availability. All you said was that you wanted to connect, in connection with... but it's all about a much larger group of institutions. Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. You're still Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u71	Mr Marshal, Senator rapporteur, indeed, the issue is not just about the agency. But let's stay on the subject. You said that as a rule, competitions are based on the fact that the competition is just a cover for a prior choice. Do you know these facts? And how did you react in such cases? If you know about them... But the second question is more important. You said the appointment rule was better, more effective than competitions. Well, I don't share... My question is: on what do you base this statement? Especially since the competition, first of all, is announced on the monitor, and second of all, it's some kind of exam. Something must be done, written, put before the committee, even if it is kind or favorable, but it must be done. In relation to other candidates. Mr... And that is the third question: how will you ensure, in connection with this act, the access of ordinary, wonderful professionals... Will you confirm that it will be... well, yes, a choice, but a choice of PiS? That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u72	Is that the end of the question? [[Yeah, three of them.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u73	The senator's first question was... 'Cause I'm... [[I can repeat, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind.]] [[There you go, of course you do. You're welcome.]] No, no, I already know. [[Yes?]] [[You already know the senator. You're welcome, Senator.]] Let me put it this way: with regard to the questions you asked by the senator, these issues were simply not addressed at the committee meeting, so I will not answer. And as for what you're asking Senator Rulewski... I said that's my opinion, and that's what a lot of people think about competitions. As far as the appointment is concerned, I think that the Minister will respond to this issue and put forward arguments as to why this form will be better. That's all I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u74	Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u75	A little ad vocem, as part of the question extension. Of course, I asked him why he was avoiding... Each of the laws, after the words that may occupy, most likely contained the conditions that should be met by the presidents and vice-presidents of the agency. And those rules are being repealed. Does this mean that the conditions will now be abolished? Not only will there be no competitions, but also in relation to these positions the conditions which later appear for lower positions are not to apply here? Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u76	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u77	Here's the answer: we didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. I'm gonna eat up the government side...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u78	Senator Zdzisław Pupa, please, asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u79	I have a question for the Member... [[Senator's voice.]] [[Yes, the senator.]] The Senator of the rapporteur. I want to bring up the subject that was raised at the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, namely the issue of rural development agencies. Would it be possible for the KRUS and rural development agencies to combine or interact? How's it look? If you were to bring it up, say something about it... [[You're welcome...]] [[But who's the connection? Because I didn't understand. Can I have another one?]] [[Say again, Senator.]] [[Who would this agency be connected to?]] I don't know what... [[Who's connected to who?]] The rural development agency is intended to serve the countryside and agriculture. Should there be any relationship between the KRUS and the rural development agency to be established in the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u80	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u81	As I understand it, the question concerns the merger of three agencies into one agency, right? As planned... [[How do you propose...]] That's what I was talking about. [[All right.]] Probably, I guess. You may confirm that, sir. It is planned to do so at the beginning of 2017, simply to improve the work of the three agencies. Their role will then be performed by one agency.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u82	I don't see any more people asking questions. Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Welcome to the meeting of the Minister from the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Undersecretary of State, Minister Rafał Romanowski. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: No, thank you.]] I take it you didn't. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are questions. You're welcome, Minister. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u83	Same question, actually two questions. The first is why, in the case of the President and Vice-President of the Agency, the paragraphs behind which, I assume, there are requirements which have been mandatory so far in the event of competitions. Why is this done? And how is it supposed to improve the functioning of these institutions by the fact that we will set up, and not choose in competitions, in addition without setting substantive requirements? This is all the more surprising because, in the case of staff, so to speak, lower rank, such as head of organizational cells, these requirements are maintained. And the second question to which the Senator rapporteur He didn't know the answer either. While it can be understood that, due to the intention to merge certain agricultural agencies, you wish to apply a different procedure temporarily, even in the case of other institutions, such as the veterinarian or other numerous institutions which are covered by these amendments, you also wish to apply this other procedure... I ask you to convince us, tell us what the added value is here and what it is about. Why should this be beneficial for the affairs of the state and the agencies mentioned above?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u84	Thank you very much. Senator Marian the Spokesperson, please, asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u85	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. If there is a hidden purpose in this law, in connection with the restructuring of existing agencies and the setting up of rural development agencies, why doesn't this law come from a government proposal? It would seem natural if the law on such a serious issue came from a government proposal, but this law is a parliamentary act. In fact, is this not just to eliminate the competition procedure for the appointment of people already dismissed and many others within these existing agencies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u86	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u87	Mr. Marshal, thank you for your kindness. Minister, you probably listened to the answers to the questions, including my question, so you heard that the Senator rapporteur pointed you out as the most competent person to answer. Maybe I'll remind you what I asked. Namely, I sought to demonstrate that the principle of the competition, which is of a clear nature and introduces an element of competitiveness, regardless of the favour and covetability of the competition committee, raises the bar in terms of qualifications. Second question. How are you going to reach out to these many partyless people, these white-red people, so they can be directors, and not be nominated at night by the appointment of the PiS? And the third question, additional question, about the compensation problem. After all, these people have been nominated by law decisions, and they may be grieved because, before Christmas Eve, they are called back in an emergency mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u88	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start with history. As the Senator rapporteur pointed out, this is a parliamentary project... But we are no longer talking about the project, but about the bill which was passed yesterday by the Polish Parliament. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the legislator already in the title of this law, the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws, refers to this oldest law, the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers, which is why it appeared in the first part of the name, and the other laws mentioned are amendments to other laws. As regards the question of the planned merger of agricultural government agencies with one single rural development agency, I would like to say that this has nothing to do with the extinction of... or the discussion of any separate scheme of insurance for farmers. This system and the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund will in no way be covered by one rural development agency. As regards the other inspections mentioned here too, according to the programme of management of the Ministry from 1 January 2017 will be created from other agencies... sorry not agency, just inspection, Veterinary inspection, Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles, State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed... One agency, a food safety agency, will be set up from these inspections, and that is, it can be said, a preliminary preparation for the establishment of a new entity which will harmonise the system. About... One more very important piece of information. According to the case law of the general courts concerning the appointment of... The appointment is consistent with the establishment of a work relationship, i.e. the appointment of a position Whether it's the inspector or the head of the organizational unit in individual government agencies, or at the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund It will be consistent with the establishment of an employment relationship. It's... [[Minister, this is another form of employment.]] This is a different form of employment, in accordance with the Labour Code as much as possible, a contract of employment for the term of office. As regards the principle of the competition and the increase of the bar, ladies and gentlemen, this is only a political response. Let us remember one basic matter, that this law also has another side, i.e. if a person is called who does not meet the expectations of his superiors, he may be automatically dismissed from his position day by day. So that responsibility in the case of vocation has not changed. Whether by competition or appointment, the President of the Council of Ministers has always appointed the President of the Agency, the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and other inspectors, including the Veterinary Inspection or the GIJHARS. In this case nothing has changed, and the President of the Council of Ministers will also appoint the Vice-Presidents to appoint the Minister responsible for agriculture and rural development, the Regional Branch Directors will appoint the Presidents of the various government agencies, and the Regional Branch Directors below.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u90	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Slugocki now. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but I didn't get the answer to the question...]] Oh, there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u91	What lies behind these repealed articles, Article. 5 to Article 15?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u92	From Art. 5 to Article 15. [[I'm also joining this because I didn't get an answer either.]] But the same question or another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u93	No, on the other, on the question of the superiority of the competition on the principle of calling, but, Mr. Marshal, we now have such days that I am willing to give up the martyrdom of the minister who is not prepared for the torment of the carp on Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u94	I understand what you're saying, sir, but I didn't hear the question. Good. Now we're in the middle of asking questions. Senator Waldemar Sługocki, and then... Actually, no, because the question has been repeated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the qualifications of people appointed to such important functions in this agency, which will arise from the three previous ones. I would like to express my concern about these minimum liberal criteria, because the Minister is probably aware of the fact that the head of this agency will be providing a huge amount of funding from the European Union budget for the implementation of the Rural Development Programme. We are talking about EUR 13 billion 513 000, of which EUR 8 billion 600 million are funds provided under the common agricultural policy. Minister, aren't you afraid that such liberal criteria will not allow people to be chosen in a responsible and competent manner to manage the Rural Development Programme? I hope that you have, Minister, the awareness that this is an extremely restrictive programme, and that any spending of European funds that is not intended for them will result in huge corrections that will ultimately affect the state budget. In this context, in the context of entrusting one person with such a responsible position, should the criteria for choosing this person not be much stricter? You are not saying anything about professional experience, I am thinking about the number of years worked in the industry, you are not saying anything about experience, whether in the agricultural sector or in the implementation of investments co-financed by European funds in urban areas. I think it's a crazy brave decision, but I think it's irresponsible after all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u96	And you asked the senator a question? [[Yes, he did.]] Yes? Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u97	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, as to whether the competition increases the standard of appointment to a given position... As much as we had such presidents, even if the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture was appointed by means of an open competition. The result was that neither the Agency was prepared for the 2015 campaign nor for the future campaign, 2016, to the least extent it was prepared. Contracts signed with IT companies do not ensure continuity and adequate payment of single area payments or, within the meaning of full, direct payments. President elected in open competition, vice presidents appointed in open competitions. As you claim, as appointed in the competition, they were to ensure that government institutions were properly prepared to implement the various regulations of the Minister of Agriculture in the area of the Rural Development Programme. Unfortunately, experience supports the fact that these competitions gave nothing, the presidents did not implement the appropriate IT facilities and the agency is not prepared... By the end of November, single area payments were paid in advance, and the rest we are implementing gradually, with great resistance, only due to the fact that the government agenda was not prepared to implement the relevant IT facilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u98	Thank you very much. Senator Waldemar Sługocki again, right? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u99	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm very short. Minister, perhaps the criteria in force so far have also been too liberal. However, maybe we should go the other way, further tighten the criteria for selecting employees for such high public functions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u101	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, this isn't about tightening up, it's about some decent responsibility for your decisions. The minister responsible... Like I said, it's a parliamentary project. The Ministry of Agriculture has prepared a draft position of the government, which is in inter-ministerial arrangements, and I would like to assure you that the parliamentary project is in line with the view of the management of the Ministry. So the Minister and the Prime Minister will have full responsibility for the presidents appointed in the various government agendas.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u102	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, yes. [[Voice from the room: For discussion...]] Good. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important and interesting bill. We were trying to find out what was behind the concept of changing some other laws. Well, that's what I'm talking about. That's what I know. It is a law abolishing the principle of competitions, which is justified by the fact that the appointment is better than the competition. I find that hard to agree with. What better vocation than a contest? In what way is the arbitrary decision to be appointed better than the competition? This is a situation that needs to be considered in conjunction with the new law that passed through the Sejm and was to be sent to the Senate at this meeting, but was postponed to the next Senate meeting... [[What's the next one?]] ...on the Civil Service Act, abolishing civil service. This must be treated together to see in which direction the Law and Justice want to change the state. I am speaking law and justice because it is a bill from the parliamentary project, supported by the government, but of course by a group of Members of Law and Justice. That's a bad direction. This is a direction that means a return to the period from the beginning of the 1990s, i.e. the remnants of the Polish People's Republic that we have eliminated. Competitions may be flawed, but then you have to clarify the rules of these competitions, make sure that they are open, and not change it in such a way that you switch competitions that can be controlled, which can be criticised, to the decisions of the boss who, of course, takes the decision for which he takes responsibility, but this responsibility cannot in principle be enforced in any way. As long as there's a breach of the rules of the contest... Well, we've got a couple of things that are clear, loud, like the NIK competitions. You can see that the rules of the competitions work, and if someone doesn't follow them and you can prove it to them, there are consequences. And Law and Justice with the government's support wants to put an end to it. ♪ So scooter your soul ♪ You'll be able to do anything. It will be possible to fill politically the agencies and institutions in which we abolish competitions. I therefore make a request for rejection of this law and make this request in writing. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u104	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The rulers, because of their responsibility, have the right to fill the main positions of the state with whom they trust. Now we're talking about a particularly sensitive area. Yes, Minister, indeed farmers are concerned that there will be serious delays in payments, such as area payments. I'm meeting with them and, to tell you the truth, I don't really know how to explain it. What you said about these IT issues doesn't exactly convince me, since earlier, with the old rules in place, payment deadlines were accelerated from year to year, and suddenly there is a delay. I am speaking because I feel some anxiety. First of all, because when you abolish the rules of competitions, you abolish the criteria. This means that practically entirely it is possible to refer to such key positions of persons who do not meet any criteria. Congratulations on your courage. Because I understand you're taking all the political and substantive responsibility for what's going to happen. You take out the fuses yourself, thinking it's a good thing. I hope this electricity doesn't shock somebody. 'Cause if it gets bad, We'll come here and talk about it and remind you of today. And the other thing... If it's okay, we'll praise you. And the second issue, which concerns, also in this context, which you spoke of by Marshal Borusewicz. Because it's starting to work out. And I'll allow myself to be older and the senators are generally in the strength of age to recall such a word as the term "nomenclature." Well, if it is so that not only civil service functions, but all other executive positions will be filled according to the so-called key once the requirements have been lifted. You also know this word "party key," then we are already in the Polish People's Republic, in the Polish People's Republic of Bis. Whether it's called PZPR or PiS, that's secondary. This is going to be the country where you fill your political positions, which is the nomenclature... which is building a new nomenclature. I agree with those critics who say that competitions didn't protect enough people who were incompetent but political. From this speaker you have made this accusation to us many times, so it would be reasonable to expect that you would tighten up these criteria, that you would eliminate pathology, and not that you would return to practices that completely endure any barriers. It seems to me that this is an absolutely unfair direction, resembling completely different times and practices. That is why it is difficult to accept these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u106	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought I'd agree entirely with what my previous speaker said, meanwhile, Mr. Senator. And I often agree with you, I like what you say. You've gone a little too far with this nomenclature. And the question for you, Marshal Borusewicz... [[Voice in the O.R.: He's not...]] Why, Mr. Marshal, in the Podlaskie Voivodeship and in other voivodships it was so that competitions in agricultural agencies won I'm speaking in general. Everyone from PSL? Well, I can't believe they're so capable, Mr. Marshal. I'm sure there were others far more capable. [[But I'm not the rapporteur, Senator, and I'm not PSL, so...]] At our place in Podlasie, it was like everyone in PSL was winning competitions. We're human, aren't we? After all, Senator Rulewski knows very well that some of the competitions were, Mr. Senator, fiction. This is a little academic discussion, whether to go towards the responsibilities of the rulers, or simply organize competitions, where we can already assume a win in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, there are no competitions for voivodships. There are no contest ministers. What do the heads of the agency deserve, that competitions are being held on their behalf? In my opinion, this is just a PR procedure. I don't know how many engineers there are in our room, but according to the provisions of the law, for example, an engineer who ran his own company or worked in some other company, for example, could be a manager, could be a section manager, could employ or supervise hundreds of people, who, for example, later was a Member or a Senator, could not be a voivode, according to our records, and for example, a person who graduated and is a pharmacist, at the age of 30 or 32 may be a voivode. So many records, ladies and gentlemen, are really fictional here. I, of course, am in favour of these criteria, and I agree with the senator who spoke about these criteria. They're really important. But I assume that the Prime Minister will appoint ministers who will manage. And here I am abstracting from the ruling coalition, because today we, PiS, are in power, but in a few years there may be another coalition, and for the next few. It's another one. It's not something that's given once and for all. Ladies and gentlemen, we must create a law that will be real and which will be wise, which will not bind the hands of the rulers. After all, when it comes to calling, as the Minister explained here, it will be a form of employment. And I agree. I believe that for all government positions, there should be a vocation in government agencies. And this without any, ladies and gentlemen, briefings, and other such safeguards. The official who comes to the state office, to the position responsible for the work in these agencies is undoubtedly responsible for knowing that if he works badly and earns very well, then he will not be protected in any special way, will have no security or will not be paid for not betraying professional secrecy, in this case economic. So that there's some form... I think it is right that Members who have submitted such a project, and who are in charge, in this case the Ministry of Agriculture, which is going towards... An official, in order for him to be able to rule properly, must be aware that he is not particularly protected. If he's doing his job conscientiously, well, he's working, and if he's not, he's not. And so, ladies and gentlemen, it should also be in other sectors of the economy. We are responsible for the state sector. So I don't see any danger here. Remember, first of all, responsibility... Even if, I would say, we're gonna put a code on this person, and she's gonna feel pretty safe, because she's gonna know that even if she gets in trouble, it's gonna take months... It doesn't work. It's just going to be a bigger and bigger problem. Bottom line is, competitions aren't the answer, Senator, which you know perfectly well. You say if they're set or if they're lying... If you've heard of it, tell the D.A.'s office. I mean, we're adults, we're smart... Well, it's very often that you're looking for people first, Mr. Senator, and then you have a contest. Yes, you're right... I can agree with that. I'm gonna say it more humorously. That you have to dress nicely, because there will be a committee there, that you have to prepare for this stress... It's very possible that this stress may later prove useful, Senator. But is that the end of it... It's hard for me to say. In this part, I'm prepared to agree with you. Thank you for your attention, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u108	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm glad that bill came to us. I believe that this law on the amendment of the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws is an initiative that responds to needs. Let us recall what has happened in recent years, how the idea of competitions has been treated, which in itself is interesting and perhaps in other social realities or in another political culture could produce the desired results. In fact, here it has become a screen for staff policies implemented strictly according to party or political instructions concerning particularly lucrative positions. If you do not believe, then I refer to the tape of truth, the famous talks about NIK President Kwiatkowski's delegations with Jan Bury, or other such examples that indicate that these competitions were in fact a kind of fiction and a veil, such a screen, a kind of alibi that was supposed to justify... [[That's what he's responsible for.]] ...justifiably... [[That's what he's responsible for.]] ...justifiably, it was supposed to be a contest, although it was really clear who would win such a contest. We're done with this fiction. I would like to thank the group of initiators, the Members who have drafted this bill. I would also like to remind you that, after all, none other than the President of the Agency for Modernization and Restructuring of Agriculture, which is no longer in this position and which was chosen in the competition, has led to a collapse in the payment of direct payments to farmers, because he was unable to Maybe he didn't want to. To prepare a system that would allow for an efficient share of these amounts to be paid. Gentlemen, the situation now is that the government must devote 1.5 billion to an emergency operation to run a direct payment scheme. So what if he was from the contest? It didn't work. And now I would ask the citizens, especially the farmers in Poland, whether they believe that under the current arrangements, those that have so far covered these issues are satisfied with the functioning of the administration under the various agencies and institutions under the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. Are they happy? Is everything done on time and is it done honestly? Isn't there a guy? Isn't it that some people get things done easier and harder? Isn't this all under the current rules? We want to stop this. It will be known who has appointed, who has moral but also political responsibility, because it is extremely important for the various segments of the functioning of the state to know how this is going to work. That is why I will vote in favour of this bill. And I think the crocodile tears that are being shed right now by the opposition senators... Well, gentlemen or you have given rise to the fact that, unfortunately, the last eight years have been difficult to assess as a period of high standards of public life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u110	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Flork.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u111	Mr. Marshal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I? Mr. Marshal, High Izbo... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, gentlemen of the Senators, please.]] We have a discussion ahead of us about amending the Civil Service Act, and I am sure we will be talking about this subject extensively, but now I just want to address a few of the speeches I just heard. You're trying to build a rule on the basis that somewhere, in some contest, probably somebody was chosen from some key. Which, of course, must be proved. You say it's not always possible to prove it. And on the basis of that, you want to build the principle that competitions are unnecessary, that a better way of calling, appointing is better. That's what you want to do. Now, on a few examples, you can see that this is the case with regard to the bill that you are talking about now, but in a moment there will be a law on civil service, and one of my predecessors also listed the law on the voivodeship. I would like to say that there was also a recent change in the voivodeship bill, which is very fundamental. There was such a requirement that in order to become a voivode, you had to have at least three years of experience in a managerial position, and you changed it and there is no longer such a record in this law, i.e. you do not need to have any experience in any managerial position, although it was not a big requirement. You have withdrawn from this, and now in the voivodeship law, there is a record that the person performing this function must hopefully. Somehow out there, it's used. She'll be doing her job well. So practically anyone can become a voivode right now. Because the requirement has been lifted. And you can see right now that you're going in that direction, that's the trend. So I understand that it's a quick job placement, as many jobs as possible, so as to put them out of a different key, not to wait for a contest procedure. And I can say from my own experience, because a lot of competitions that were... Because I've been a voivode for the last eight years, I know what these competitions look like for me. They were free... People could volunteer, always analyzing the best candidates in this competition, there were always some tests done, so you had to show some knowledge, etc., there was always an independent competition committee that performed these activities. It may have happened that these competitions weren't well held somewhere, but it's certainly not a rule. I'm sure what you're doing right now is what you're doing. And you want to walk away from this competition rule everywhere, in any one case. It's a bad thing. You will see that this will reflect the fact that the EU funds we have been talking about may not be used. If we're gonna fill people's seats just because they have some kind of party card, if we're gonna fill a position on the basis of a key like that... It's not in the civil service. In the civil service, you can't belong to any party organization. The state in this bill changes it... This amendment to the Civil Service Act will come to us. This is a very bad direction. So I'd like to sum it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u112	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Grabowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! I wasn't supposed to speak on the subject, because the bill is pretty obvious to me. However, I was evoked by two previous speakers: by Senator Borusewicz, who, in practically one sentence, brought together the issue of the system's imperfections, it was about the cases of competitions carried out in a way that was not very reliable. With a statement of control of competitions... A string like that in one sentence... [[No, no.]] Yes, Mr. Marshal. The Lord said: there was a way to control the competitions. And you said earlier that there were some irregularities. I'll remind you, because I don't know if this room is already... You've already mentioned NIK. President Kwiatkowski and Mr Bury... prosecutorial charges; case pending, as far as I know. This is one thing I'd like to address. Second thing. And here's an explanation for Senator Augustine. Mr. Senator is surprised that direct payments were paid annually, you can say, faster and faster. I, as a former employee of the restructuring agency, saw it on the other hand. I will tell you, Senator, that in 2011 and 2014 there were very strong pressures. Those two years... Think about what happened back then, if it was election years or if it was non-election years. Here's another thing. My previous speaker, Senator Jackowski, talked about the amount of 1.5 billion in advance paid this year. The farmers got 1.5 billion. Why did they get it? That is because there are statutory deadlines and EU rules. What does that have to do with anything? I, Gentlemen of the Senators, have been on a holiday visit, with Christmas wishes in one of the branches, from the offices of the county restructuring agencies. These offices have all made decisions in advance, except that these employees know that these debts, some of these debts will be recovered. It's procedure. What does that tell you? Let me explain. Since 2005, since the turn of 2004 and 2005, the Ajax system has been implemented in the Agency for Restructuring, a very expensive IT system. Its subsequent modifications, very expensive, introduced and served the well-known IT Hewlett Packard. It was a good system. Last year, employees described him as almost perfect. And so now: people selected on the basis of competitions, presidents and vice presidents for technical, IT issues have decided that the system is too expensive in operation and needs to be changed. The effect of this is that the restructuring agency does not have any system at the moment. And that's why you pay in advance. It's just an explanation. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u114	Thank you very much. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Zarin. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Ad vocem, I understand. Yes? [[Yeah, yeah.]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u115	The senator mentioned my name. I didn't deny what I said, but... I read on TVN24 the information that I requested that the debate on the point concerning the Constitutional Tribunal be abandoned. And so I made a head movement that the senator thought was so far away from what I said. No, I was surprised by what I read, because I made a motion for a photo on the agenda of the Constitutional Court Act. I read what I read, so I was very surprised. And that's all I'm saying as part of a comeback and an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u116	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u117	Mr. Marshal, I wasn't talking about your head gesture, I was talking about how you formulated your speech. In one sentence, you used the phrase that you could somehow control the competitions. Yeah, check out the competitions. And you said earlier that there were, yes, some irregularities in the past. And you mentioned it. Then NIK. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u118	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that all the speeches that are here, including, and perhaps especially from the opposition benches, have their internal logic, whether you are dating or not, in what order and with what content you are performing. I am referring mainly to the combination of certain statements by Senators Rulewski, Augustine and Flork. Namely, these statements come together in a logical whole, which is that they prepare, I suppose, a very far-reaching, probably also media, offensive, which will go somewhere towards insulting not so much the Senators of Law and Justice as the government. Mr Rulewski's and Senator Augustine's suggestions assume that there is no good will of the government, which is now, no good will in this matter. And if, for example, he's against competitions, that means he's gonna win the guy thing. This assumption is kind of obvious. You're right, Senator Florek said we'll be discussing civil service soon. And it turns out that the wording of Senator Augustine's party nomenclature... So, as I understand it, the fact that the PiS is a continuation of the PZPR will be included in the next statement of the senators. And so you will be, gentlemen, in quotes, harassing the current government. I propose that you reflect somewhere and do not move too far this logic of speech, because already today, at such a modest stage of this particular point of the program, you have touched us very hard. As a historian, I realize what the PZPR meant, I know what the nomenclature system was, and I know how we are treated by you. I kindly inform you that I personally do not wish such an invective in the future. With regard to the substance of the case, it seems that it is certainly necessary to be sufficiently flexible when it comes to competition issues. I have experience mostly in science. Undoubtedly, there is a certain amount of competition experience, which suggests that the really prepared, really conducted competition is aimed at drawing pearls. Pulling out pearls is the intention of competitions when they are not set. Of course, there are very many competitions set up in all areas of public life, which in turn aim only and exclusively to fill the previously recognized man, and therefore his, so to speak, pearlism is not taken into account at all. That's the practice. And now it seems reasonable for me to ask: is it really the most important thing to draw pearls on this issue? Well, the government, every government, in fact, has the right to choose employees so that I can say that they've been cut off. And, of course, so that it also makes sense by law to make another feature dominant. That doesn't mean that this other quality I'm going to say assumes a lack of competence. Both a pearl and a loyal person, because of course it's about loyalty... These are very important features of those co-founders of government policy who will be responsible for certain segments. And that is the situational purity, that behind the bad competition, that is, behind the supposed competition, and in fact set, there is no lack of responsibility. In the event of competitions, it actually makes it easier for the rulers to pretend that they are not responsible for their own actions and for their own staff policies. And in a situation where a pearl is transferred to loyalty, the government takes responsibility and you will have the full right to enforce the consequences of this loyalty. Whether this loyalty was a sufficient argument or a value that should not be leading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u120	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Lyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After my excellent previous speaker, I will respond very briefly to the supporters of the competitions. Mr Augustine and Mr Rulewski, who had just left us. Like Poland long and wide, competitions were organized and in all agricultural agencies, Mr. Senator Augustine, no one else won, only representatives of PSL. In my heart, Anwil's factory is twenty directors, and they're all from the Platform. Somehow it's just so wonderful. But okay. If they won, they should be brilliant, they should be good. And I would like to say this: those who were chosen in the competitions led the Polish village, Polish agriculture, which the senator refers to here... You said that you often meet Polish peasants. I invite you to Kujawy to meet with the farmers. Then they'll tell you what they think of these directors, all those managers selected in the competitions. Those excellent chosen in the competition, including the Minister of Agriculture, led the Polish village to such a collapse as it was not after 1956. Therefore, I believe that the new form of employment will help to reverse the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u122	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Napieralski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are too many references to the past in this discussion, and we are not talking enough about what is to happen in the future and what is to be done by this good change that everyone is counting on. Well, I would like to address in particular the Senators of Law and Justice, who are so eager to recall the last eight years. I remind you, he's not in this room. At least among political parties that held power A party that could say with a clear conscience: we didn't do things like that when it comes to casting positions. For also Law and Justice As we know, we saw it on TV. In this matter it is not clean. And that's what I'm paying attention to very gently, but firmly, because we're talking about something that should be good and positive, not something that could be bad and lead to pathology. Why did the competitions give and, in my opinion, still give you the opportunity to choose the best of the best, as you said the senator, these pearls? Because loyalty, yes, is always important, but the most important thing is competence. And in competitions, however you look at them... I haven't been a member of the Polish People's Party or held power for the last 8 years, so I can say with a clear conscience: competitions, at least those I looked at in different places, gave me one real sense. That you actually choose people who are prepared. Because the competitions mentioned the characteristics of people and their competences that were needed in a given place. Today we are talking about agriculture. I cannot imagine, Mr Senator, that a person has been appointed whose powers are far from his or her competence in this area, i.e. who does not know about agriculture, and that someone who is loyal to the head of the party, to the minister or to someone else who makes these important decisions, but has nothing to do with agriculture, sits in the chair of the President of an important state institution. However, competitions Even if some of the things you've been talking about happened somewhere, and they have happened, you've been calling for it all the time, and they've given us the opportunity, and they've given us the feeling that we've chosen pearls, we've chosen people who've been prepared. Such people were in managerial positions, and their professional way in a given field In the field of agriculture or, I don't know, defence, economy, treasure, finance, it developed so that they could take the highest positions. And I miss this debate, and it's not enough for you either. The vocation brings really one great danger, such that there will be temptation and this temptation will be Only taking care of party legitimacy and loyalty to their political formation. It is obviously understandable in politics, but is it understandable and good for the Polish state? I don't think so. I think to myself this: today we are going to proceed with such an important law, in a moment we are going to proceed on another civil service issue, we are really talking about changing the structures of the state, we are talking about how they are going to function efficiently, how they are going to be closer to citizens. So let's do it all so that there's actually a good change. The issue of the civil service, these competitions, the fact that someone was chosen and it was difficult to cancel, it was difficult to fire him, it was all a sense of security, and also Mr. Senator, I'm addressing you. This sense of independence provided a completely different comfort of work, because this overseer did not come, let's call it a minister or a person who was a little higher, and did not force political decisions. A person who has been selected in a competition that feels strong can make completely unfettered decisions. I miss that in this discussion, and please pay attention. Once again, the calling can lead to very dangerous movements. That's not the case with the minister. He is accountable to Parliament, he can actually be called off at any time, not only by the Prime Minister, Prime Minister, Prime Minister, but also by a vote of distrust. But the director, the president of the agency, is a completely different matter. He's a little out of democratic reach, he's actually in a straight line under the minister. And I note that loyalty is really not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u124	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! There are rankings most often quoted, I think I'm driving today, but I'm not exactly quoted with understanding. I began my speech by granting the right for the rulers to refer to those they trust, but I question the abolition of the criteria and maintain it. Because abolishing the criteria necessary for appointment is a serious mistake. You can question competitions, claim they were good or bad, but where the competitions were violated, people are being prosecuted. There were examples here, there was talk of NIK. Yes, it's a matter of interest to the proper service, and rightly so, it's necessary. Therefore, once again, I would like to stress that you take a great deal of responsibility and take a big risk... [[We take responsibility.]] Yeah, yeah. You're also taking a lot of risks, but it's also a little bit to think about, Professor. I do not wish to offend anyone, to be personal, absolutely, but I would like to draw your attention to something. If the State's intention was to unite loyalty to the State, not to the party, what would bother you with the criteria? Why are you bothering with the criteria? I'm leaving you with that question. [[It's not up to you to decide.]] [[That's what we know.]] [[The criteria are.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u126	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this point? I don't see any volunteers. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski: No.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 58 and the committee's report In print No 58 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Michał Sewerynski, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions have today examined the Act of the Marshal of the Senate on the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act and present a draft resolution of the Senate in which they apply for a law without amendments. The course of the meeting of the two committees was widely broadcast, publicised. The meeting lasted without a small eight hours. All the critics of the law and supporters of the law spoke, raising substantive and sometimes non-essential arguments. NGOs were invited. A representative of the Attorney General has expressed his opinion. The opinions of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Bar Council, the National Judicial Council, the Ministry of Justice were also expressed and presented in writing. The result of the meeting is a proposal, adopted by a majority of both committees, for the adoption of a law without amendments. A minority of the two committees have tabled two proposals, namely a motion to reject the bill, which will be submitted by Senator Marek Borowski, and a proposal for amendments. These are the 4 groups of amendments. A total of 13 amendments are in these groups Senator Alexander Pociej, Senator Marek Borowski, Senator Jan Filip Libicki and Senator Jan Rulewski. Thank you. [[Corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u128	Correct? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Just a little word of correction. Namely, the application I made regarding the rejection of the bill in its entirety, you will refer to Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u130	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Marek Borowski, to present a minority proposal to reject the law and a group of minority proposals contained in the paragraph II - Amendments 2, 5, 8 and 11. [[I think it's the other way around.]] [[The other way around...]] [[The motion for rejection is presented by Rulewski.]] [[Mr. Senator Rulewski.]] [[Yes, Mr. Senator Rulewski.]] [[Mr. Marshal, the motion for rejection is presented by Rulewski.]] [[Unless Senator Borowski changed...]] I'm sorry, I'm reading what the committee staff have prepared for me. [[But this...]] Good. Who is the rapporteur for the minority's motion to reject the bill? [[Mr. Senator Rulewski.]] [[Senator Rulewski.]] Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski and I apologize on behalf of the committee staff.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For both your senators and all those who listen to our deliberations, I have sad, bad news. After a period of numerous demonstrations, preceded by an infamous first amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act and then by two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, it seemed that Polish citizens had the right to expect Parliament, in particular from the Senate as a forum for reflection, that their problems, as required by the rules of a civilised state, would be decided by their representatives. All citizens, both those who have demonstrated their victory and support for Mrs Szydło's government, as well as those In a similar manner, if not more than one Who have demonstrated behind the constitution before Parliament, the President and the Government. Let us pay their respects for the fact that they merely demonstrated and asked Poland to comply with the Constitution, in particular with the article. 2, it was a democratic rule of law fulfilling the principle of social justice. [[And these democratic slogans are a flanta in drawings...]] Mr. Marshal, give the floor to the senator. Mr. Senator didn't have the opportunity to speak at the committee meeting because he was blocked by his boss. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Nobody was blocking me.]] The Civic Platform... [[Anti-Citizen!]] ...in the course of this work, a compromise was proposed, as in the first act, and once again the PiS senators did not take advantage of this opportunity... of this necessity. Then it resulted in peaceful demonstrations. I'll focus, at least for a moment, on these demonstrations. Yes, it is true, this is an example of the civic attitude of all the participants in these demonstrations. But they are no reason to be proud of the demonstrations in which they accuse the rulers without distinguishing them, that they do not respect what the people advocated in the referendum, or constitution. And for that reason, I find no reason for oversatisfying these demonstrations. But let's go back to the minority proposal. When proposing a compromise, the Platform made only one condition: that space be created, that there should be time for this compromise to be concluded. This condition was defined in this way: a few days for a public hearing. Since the last amendment, just a few weeks ago, something has changed in Poland The citizens wanted to write this law, they wanted to participate in its creation, so it would be logical if they also participated in Parliament's meetings. Polish democracy had and has an answer for this: public hearing on draft laws. And in Polish democracy, this solution worked out. And it was in the Senate that a public hearing was held on the petition law. But this condition was unanimously rejected by the representatives of Law and Justice. We have made concessions, we have given up the condition for this actually quite difficult institution, which is a public hearing. But since the public hearing was to be attended not only by the citizens, but also by the legal community, we proposed to the presidents that the committee meetings should be two-part - the procedure would be launched in the first part, while the second one would be to hear the representatives of all these communities who have reported, even at the last minute, their opinion... May I remind you that it was only now that the National Judicial Council could adopt a resolution on the night... I don't even know if I can say tonight If that's the way it's gonna be said... But this proposal was also rejected by the representatives of the PiS. And I don't hesitate to use it as an argument of my observation that they were very much, that I would say, stiffened, as if the decision to make... as if the decision on this matter was not in their power. I'm not going to look for the governor for this rigid attitude because it's not my intention. But more important than the procedure, or actually equal, equal to the omission of the compromise procedure... What the Platform proposes as part of the compromise is important here. Maybe we should talk about his framework. We can only propose what is defined in Polish law. And the Polish law in the area of the Constitutional Tribunal regulates the action of this Court very precisely and accurately, in a way that has been proven for years. And it is only in this respect that we can and would like to move when it comes to this compromise. Although I do not hide that, as part of further work, which the Platform does not avoid, other legislative initiatives are possible in the work on the Constitution. But we live here today, within the current constitutional order. So what is defined by the Constitutional Standard, we want, and in this context, as the representative of the applicants, the rapporteur for the minority proposal, I will move my argument. And the Platform, within the area defined by the law, believes, however, that in order to move on to this stage, it is necessary to regulate the so-called oath crisis, that citizens still do not know how many members the Court has, who sits in it and even who comes to it. Citizens, Poles have the right to know what the legal status is today. And that is the first condition for the settlement of the oath crisis. In the matter of the law itself, the next one, we believe that it will not endure the trial of the law, but also the legal reality of the law, is the matter of the principle of judgment, referred to how the Court is to work, in what compositions, in what proportions. Next: the ad hoc mode of carrying out this act, i.e. the vacathio legis defined as... means the immediate entry into force of the law, from the date of publication in the Official Journal of the Laws. It could be said that it is unacceptable for the Platform to lock the Court of Justice as from the date of publication of the bill. No democratic state can withstand such an attempt. The Platform considers that the rule adopted by the Act on the handling of applications on the basis of a register of their entries does not withstand the trial resulting from previous work as well as from normal judicial practice. Chronology is perhaps good when it comes to booking tickets for the European Championship in Paris, but in matters of great importance It is precisely in matters where the people want the President to have more power to take his initiatives by the Court so that the citizens' affairs, when their fundamental rights are violated, take precedence over the examination of the compatibility of the law or, in fact, the regulations with the law. The principle of chronology cannot be applied. We also believe that the chapter of the Act on disciplinary action against judges is extremely different from what you said: that the work of judges should be subject, uglylyly speaking, to greater discipline. There is no denying that the rule laid down in the law that the Sejm is calling off the judge from the Court Although at the request of the General Assembly, there are many holes in it that are not even in line with your intentions. What will be done with the judge who is being prosecuted, the penalty will be remitted, the Sejm will not meet, and he will continue to judge at the Court, and this is still in the criminal code? That's what you're assuming. I am no longer talking about the general principle, because you have taken the principle of self-government to the Court of Justice in order to rule on their evil judges. I am already overlooking this aspect, which is on different sides of the political scene, when it did not decide the fact of the offence, the crime, but the political sounds forced many Members, senators to vote against their own conscience. Next: one resorts to emphasising the principle of three divisions of power. This is not fully explained to the opponents of this law. I would still support my argument with other arguments. You introduced them to Senator Klich, clearly, clearly and understandablely. He based his argument on the consistent and even unanimous opinions of all legal backgrounds. There is no indication, Dear Senators of the PiS, of any responsible legal opinion which would question these objections in any way. And that's our next title to express disagreement with this bill. But there are still political issues which, I admit, took place during the committee meeting, which is rather rare in the committee led by Professor Sewerinski. Namely, it is true that the work of the committee was carried by the spirit of the political past. The spirit of the past in which investigations and mining arrests took place. There was a spirit of the past in which there was an inner dintoir between representatives of the PiS coalition. The spirit of the past was floating when people were being chased just because they bought a suitcase. I'm talking about the Minister of Privatization, the Treasury. He was apprehended by the services that Minister Ziobro commanded, only because when he bought the suitcase, he was supposedly going to run away with millions of privatizations. I'm not gonna mention myself because it's known that you're not supposed to defend your own affairs. And this atmosphere, of course, ordered the Platform to be cautious, but it did not block her efforts to reach a compromise. [[The Corite won't be blocking her...]] But this compromise was rejected by the state. Poland is moving into the unknown. Poland is becoming a problem for Europe. Poland is becoming an unpredictable country because of this fact. [[There were 100 arsons of refugee centers in Germany.]] [[Voices from the room: Don't disturb him!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...we respect the election result. [[You can't see it.]] We understand that not the nation, but the majority of voters gave law and justice politicians the right to political initiative, to rule, and indeed supported the principle of a good change. But there can be no consent to a crocodile's policy, who has been given a hand to a good change, and he eats his arm, closing the Constitutional Tribunal to a lock. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Crocodile tears were.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u132	I ask the rapporteur for the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Gentlemen of the Senators, please be quiet! ...the Legislative Commission, Senator Marek Borowski, to present minority proposals.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My task is to present a number of minority proposals, namely Amendments 2, 5, 8, 11. This number 11 is basically the consequence of the earlier ones. The main content, the essence, you can say, the essence of what I want to say, is contained in three conclusions. In Amendment 2, 5 and 8, concerning certain points in Article. One bill we're dealing with. There have been a lot of objections to this law of different nature and different natures, so to speak, strength, and most of them I share, but I have decided to focus only on those that I have just mentioned, because I consider them crucial for this law and for the future of the Constitutional Tribunal, because this institution is concerned with the law, and the future of the Constitutional Tribunal is closely linked to the future of democracy. This is how history has taught the European nations But also others that were affected by world wars, like the United States, like Canada, like Australia That democracy is not just a simple slogan, it is the majority that governs it, because on this basis the worst regimes have often come to power, which then... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, no. Well, but, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like we're talking about the Platform's governments or anything. For now, about the government of the PIS, or about the government of the SLD. That's not the government I'm talking about. I'm talking about the fact that an institution to investigate the compatibility of laws with the Constitution was created as a result of deep reflections of democratic nations... [[Voice from the room: What year?]] ...and that you shouldn't underestimate it. After World War II, sir. Listen carefully. In democratic countries. And we from these countries are simply learning. Therefore, the Constitutional Tribunal cannot be regarded as one of the institutions which is subject to various kinds of frequent changes, any manipulation by the current majority, for this simple reason that it is intended to protect minorities, because it is very easy for minorities to be harmed by laws that do not comply with the Constitution. The Constitution was adopted by the whole nation. And then what? So that what I want to talk about is strictly about the functioning of the Court. And here's the article. Paragraph 1 (9) of the Act is linked to paragraph 14 of the Act, which states as follows: The Court shall rule in full office unless the Act provides otherwise. What is the difference from the current situation? At present, the Court shall rule in full on certain matters. These cases are mentioned, these are serious, indeed relevant. This is, for example, a question of the compatibility of laws before they are signed by the President, i.e. when the President directs the law to the Court, the Court shall rule in full. It is also a question of compliance with the constitution of international agreements before their ratification of the agreement, a very important issue, because after ratification it is insanely difficult to change such an agreement. It is also a matter of compliance with the constitution of political parties' objectives or activities, which is included in the Constitution, and it is known that political parties are a very sensitive issue, so it should be a full composition. They are also competent disputes between central authorities of the State, constitutional ones. Well, if there is a dispute, and there have been such cases, between the President and the Council of Ministers, this should, of course, be settled by the Court as a whole. There are two more cases that I will no longer discuss here, and cases of particular complexity or significance, so to speak, because it is difficult to list all of them here. There are cases that are not mentioned here, these are not pre-signing laws, these are post-signing laws, but are characterised by particular complexity or importance, for example concerning budgetary matters, matters which, let's say, can result in very serious financial consequences for the state, i.e. for citizens. And that's how it was formulated here. In other cases, he ruled the composition of 5 judges, and in cases of completely minor composition of 3 judges. This is the present state. What does the bill propose or what does the law we are discussing? It states that, in general, the Court shall rule in full and not in smaller but not in five, only seven judges, in matters of constitutional complaints or legal questions of the courts. Constitutional complaints, that is, the case of citizens who have gone all the way to court and filed a constitutional complaint. It follows that all requests for compliance of the law with the constitution brought by the prosecutor, by the ombudsman, by an appropriate group of Members, Senators, trade unions, employers' organisations, well, in short, by all those who are constitutionally entitled to submit applications to examine the compatibility of the laws with the constitution, all of them... But, attention, also minor acts, i.e. regulations or regulations, as to compliance with laws and constitutions... In all these cases, The Court is to rule in full. And that's the fundamental difference. In addition, there is another case which is related to this, namely, if at present the full composition is at least 9 judges, there may be more and there have been such hearings, of a particular importance in which 15 judges attended, the minimum here is 13 judges out of 15. So here's the situation: it's going to be settled not by 9, but by 13 judges, and not on certain matters, but by almost all matters. What's the argument here? The argument is this: the point is that the sentence should have, so to speak, more weight, more power, because more judges are spoken, not just 5. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the practice of dealing with smaller cases is known to many constitutional tribunals in the world, and this is not an original idea. He lets you operate smoothly. So far we have had 3 judges, the possibility of establishing 3 judges who worked simultaneously. If, at the moment, the average period of waiting for a judgment The average, because of course there are cases of faster ruling, is from 1 year to 1.5 years, in a situation where 1 composition is simple, the bill is simple. It's only gonna be one squad. If it's 1 lineup, this period has to be three times longer, there's no way to do it, it's going to be from three years to four and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, for such a long period of time as the Constitutional Tribunal has ruled, its activities are simply meaningless. In addition, it appears from other provisions which I will not discuss in detail, that the Court is still forced to delay decision-making, as time limits are introduced there. Three and six months, mostly six months. Therefore, even when there is an urgent need, the matter cannot be dealt with quickly. So here we have what they write about, all the important legal institutions in Poland, the Supreme Court, the prosecution, the barrister's council, various legal departments, and they say that this leads to the paralysis of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's the truth. I just don't want to believe you don't see it. How will this Court be able to rule more quickly? I don't know how. [[Can't they see? They don't want to see.]] [[Because the judges aren't gonna work at college.]] No, no, I know these arguments that they won't be working in college. Ladies and gentlemen, we can move these kinds of passwords, but it's not serious, it's just not serious. This year, including the passing year, 172 cases were dealt with and there were three judges. That means there were almost 60 cases per squad. What are we talking about here? [[If they want to, they can do it in a week...]] Which delay, lazyness, etc.? This is just ridiculous. If there's one squad, it'll take three times as long. And don't tell me things like that, that judges come to work twice, that they're gone, and they're at college, and so on. It is so everywhere that judges, who are outstanding lawyers, also have lectures at universities, have scientific conferences, have different classes of this kind. It's perfectly natural. The Constitution allows this and deliberately allows it, because it would be pointless to waste nine years of such capital as the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. So please accept that this is going to happen, or prove it in a completely different way. There are no provisions in this law that would convince the Court to work faster than today and in any event not to work slower. These two combined proposals represent the paralysis of the Court's work. This is, of course, the second point. Today we have 10 judges of the Court... [[We've got 12.]] ...and we have three judges that the Court has said should be sworn in, and we have five who have been elected in a far-reaching and questionable way Because the three of them, first of all, should be judges today. And the sentence was finally published. So we have 10 judges. If we're 10 and we're supposed to be 13, we can't put together a squad anymore. Right? I mean, even if I didn't think about it... Suppose we can sort this out in a little while. We don't know how yet, but we will solve this problem. And there will be 15 judges. I say once again: even if we solve it, the directive that is here, with the number of complaints and requests that come to the Court, will mean that the Court will actually be completely ineffective and without authority. Well, if you're waiting four years to decide, you can wave your hand at it. I am no longer talking about the fact that there are additional provisions that speak about the order of consideration It is very easy for the Constitutional Court to rule on minor cases which it will have to deal with in order. And important things will be waiting. The second case is related to the majority that is needed to deliver the judgment of the famous 2/3. Everyone knows the story of Napoleon, who asked why he didn't give salves from the cannons as he was coming. To the city, he received an answer that there are 5 or 10 reasons, but the first is that we don't have cannons. And this is... It is possible to discuss here for a long time whether this 2/3 is a good idea if it is not a good idea, but the first reason is that the constitution speaks about the majority rather than the qualified majority. Take a look at the relevant article in the Constitution. And it's clear, it's simple. Of course, at the committee meeting, I heard the arguments. I think Senator Czerwiński developed that idea. After all, in some other places it is written about the ordinary majority, and here it is only about the majority, so since it is written here only about the majority, it means that it can be shaped freely, just in the law, that it can be written 2/3. Ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm going to say: we can exchange views on this, but... I'm very sorry, but there are certain opinions. The Supreme Court, to which the PiS group wanted to refer the laws relating to the Court, writes that, first of all, the requirement to decide by a majority of 2/3 votes is clearly incompatible with the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, for whenever the Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 5 of the Constitution requires that the majority of the judges in the The essence of the Constitutional Tribunal is that it decides, not that it does not decide. The introduction of the 2/3 requirement will mean that in many cases the Court will not say either yes or no, it simply will not say anything. In the meantime, it's his job to decide. And he has to say whether something is constitutional or unconstitutional, he just has to. And that's why. in the United States There are just 9 judges out there. 5:4 sentences happen just a few times. And no one's questioning that. He just has to settle, and there are no abstentions. In addition, both the Supreme Court and the prosecutor's office I am no longer talking about other bodies, our legislative offices are clearly saying that this is a court, and in all laws concerning courts, most are spoken of without adjectives. It's just that it's mostly because there are no abstentions. The judge doesn't hold back. The judge is either for it or against it. And since there are no abstentions, the majority is always a ruthless majority, and simply there is nothing to describe it. And since, in view of such an obvious constitutional statement, the Sejm inserts 2/3, I cannot define it as anything other than an exceptional disregard for the Constitution. And that's why the Senate should react. So in these two points we have this set: there is a full-time ruling in almost all cases, and in any case in the majority, in 13 people, and not in five-person formations for many cases; and there are these. 2/3. Well, it's all just gonna cause paralysis. At a committee meeting I'd like to refer to it right away, and there's this argument... Because they often asked if there were any opinions of good constitutionalists who simply argue with this criticism. Mr President, Senator Gogacz quoted Dr. Piotrowski's opinion, who is indeed an outstanding expert in this area and who said that judging 13 judges and with a majority of 2/3 could give greater credibility to judgments. Okay, except he's standing by the current rules, which say that the full composition is only in certain situations, so in those I read, and not in most situations... [[Time.]] Yes. I'm almost done. ...not in most situations. So that something completely different is the preservation of the existing rules which say that the Court is ruling fully in the situations I have read and adding that, in such situations, the composition should be 13 judges and the sentence falls by a majority of 2/3. I stress that this is very debatable, but this is a little different. And what else is that he will rule in the case of almost all laws. This is completely different. So that Dr. Piotrowski used it in a different context. And at the end of the day, I'm going to refer to point two, as well as the article. 1. It's a minor matter, but it can also lead to paralyzed work. 'Cause that's what I'm thinking mostly if I'm questioning those rules. Namely, the General Assembly of Judges of the Court not only deals with the election of the President, but also adopts certain internal issues, adopts rules of procedure, e.g. adopt a draft of the Court's revenue and expenditure, a draft which shall then be forwarded to the Sejm. There are other clean cases, sometimes quite important, that he makes. It also states that there should be 13 judges and 2/3 votes. I have to say, why? I don't know. Perhaps, in some internal controversy, such rules may be long overdue or such a set of income may be long overdue, but we do not need to create such a situation. So this can also paralyze the functioning of the Court. I, Mr. Marshal, hold to the conclusion that, so to speak, do not enter into the broader context of the bill, because this is what I leave to speak in the discussion. In any case, in these matters, High Senate, ladies and gentlemen, things are really obvious and it will be a great shame if they are governed only by discipline in this respect, and perhaps even by such a belief that you are certainly doing the right thing... If these things go through, then we're all gonna have a lot of trouble with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u134	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Alexander Pociej, to present proposals for minorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my privilege to refer to three of the minority proposals, namely Amendments 1, 3 and 4. This number 3 concerns something else, it is less important, so I would like to focus on the conclusions on the article. 1 points 2, 6, 7, 8 and 5. They're all actually about one thing. It concerns the disciplinary responsibility of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. However, before I proceed to discussing this issue, allow me to make a few general comments. It is very possible that they will appear to you as truisms, because I will talk about things that each of us probably once learned about. But since we've all had the pleasure... since I've recently had the pleasure of listening to Senator Jackowski, talking a long time about Sienkiewicz, whom I knew my time almost by heart, let me talk about things that may be obvious. However, we are not only talking to each other here, we are also talking to citizens. On February 22, 1787, Thomas Jefferson wrote in a letter that he had to be in constant readiness against the authorities, especially if one of them usurped too much of the rights of the other authorities. Among the numerous elements of the concept of the rule of law, that is, the rule of law, each textbook or encyclopedic study lists a threefold division of power. It is said that this division is of a guarantee nature. It seems that the first argument in this area, in which this is so full, or perhaps the most perfect one so far, is the work of 31 books, about the spirit of the laws of Montescius. In it he analyzed the various forms of the system, giving later the answer he thinks is the best. The guarantee of citizens' freedom was, according to the author, a spirit of state-quality rights. Montescius claimed that it was favorable to limit power. He also understood how this could be effective. He wrote: "When in one and the same person or in one and the same body the legislative authority is united with the executive, there is no freedom; because one can fear that the same monarch or the same senate does not constitute the tyrannical laws that will be tyrannically exercised. There is also no freedom if the judicial authority is not separated from the legislative and executive authority. If it were connected with the legislative authority, the power over the life and freedom of citizens would be arbitrary; for the judge would be the legislator. If it were connected with the executive authority, the judge might have the power of a oppressor. Even then, in the 18th century according to Montescius, judges should be subject only to laws. They should also be equal to the accused state. And the execution of the judgments of Montescius served as an executive. Two articles of the Constitution reflect this idea. Art. 10 states that the system of the Republic of Poland is based on the division and balance of the legislative authority, executive authority and judicial authority. The legislative authority is exercised by the Sejm and the Senate, by the President of the Republic of Poland and by the Council of Ministers, and by courts and tribunals. A. 173 of the Constitution states that courts and tribunals are separate and independent from other authorities. The theory of limiting power is the nucleus modern democracy. The limitation of each of the others is intended to provide sufficient safeguards against the self-will of each of these authorities, against unlawful action against the detriment of the citizens. It is the threefold division of power that guarantees proper implementation of the idea of the rule of law. For a long time politicians, philosophers, scientists specializing in the theory of law have wondered whether the law adopted by Parliament because it is going through the legislative process is the final law. Immanuel Kant explained that man is only free if he has to submit to the law and not to the person. What were the words in this context... [[Lenin also referred to Kant.]] [[On Hegel even more.]] As Mr Kornel Makowiecki said in this context... [[Voices from the Moravian Chamber.]] ...Moraevsky... [[Mr. Morawiecki, senior marshal.]] ...Senior marshal on the fact that there's something elusive, more important over the law? [[Natural law.]] During the discussions at the joint committee meeting, my esteemed colleague, Professor Seweryński, said that our dispute is about who has the highest authority: whether the parliament that is the sovereign emanation or the Court? I agree with this statement by your professor, Mr. Senator, I absolutely agree with you. We have a completely different approach to this. [[Question...]] Well, I would like to say that the outstanding economist, Nobel Prize laureate Friedrich August von Hayek, wrote: "The belief that the legislator's power has no boundaries, is partly conditioned by the rule of power and democratic rule. They were strengthened by the belief that, as long as all state activities were sanctioned by the legislative process, the rule of law would be preserved. This outstanding scientist continues to say that this is a completely wrong understanding of the rule of law. The fact that someone's M.O. is fully legally sanctioned does not yet provide an answer to the question whether the law gives him the basis for acting self-free or whether it clearly determines how he should act. Hayek points to the problem of the fact that Parliament has unlimited power to create law. This is contrary to the liberal vision of a state which, of course, claims that there is no freedom without law, but this right must be written in a capital letter. The essence of the law is that the law should exist as a general rule before a specific case arises. Speaking of the group of amendments concerning the liability of the judges of the Court, I would like to quote the words, the comments of the Legislative Bureau. The Constitutional Tribunal is the judicial authority of which the Article provides. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by The latter guarantees the independence of courts and tribunals from other authorities. In addition, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution provides that the Judges of the Constitution shall be in the exercise of their office without delay and shall be subject only to the Constitution. As pointed out in the doctrine, the principle of independence of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is of systemic importance, because its existence is a necessary condition for the Court to carry out its constitutional tasks properly. The independence of a constitutional judge means creating a situation for the judge to make impartial decisions in the performance of his duties, in a manner consistent with his conscience and protected against any direct or indirect external pressure. During our meeting, we discussed that such an external pressure could be disciplinary punishment. I'm standing at my post. Me and the co-authors of the minority proposal It is more dangerous for judges to respond disciplinaryly and to have a disciplinary responsibility so designed that Parliament will decide this than if they are disciplined themselves, internally. Especially since the history of the Constitutional Tribunal over the last 25 years indicates this And we're talking about all the possible teams here, including the candidates who were elected between 2005 and 2007 that it never happened that one of the judges committed a disciplinary measure. Therefore, we are wondering why, since there are no disciplinary delicacies, this new regulation is being created, although, as everyone points out, From our Legal Office, through the first President of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Bar Council, the representative of the Attorney General, all non-governmental organizations that were today under such disciplinary subjection to the Sejm is absolutely unconstitutional. The question is, why? Why is this vent forming? We were trying to figure out why this solution was adopted. Unfortunately, we haven't heard the answer. If we add to these articles, to which we propose amendments tabled by a minority, we will add an article. 28a, which states that disciplinary action may be initiated at the request of the President and the Minister of Justice, we will receive a form of double submission of the judges of the Court. Because here is the government and the Minister of Justice is a representative of the government, which, of course, is the emanation of the parliamentary majority... So we have the situation that this emanation of the parliamentary majority in the form of the Minister of Justice can initiate proceedings, and the one who will ultimately decide on this issue will be Parliament, dominated by the same majority. This is clearly unconstitutional, in the eyes of all who have examined the records discussed here. In addition, by deleting Article. 31 point 3 of the Constitutional Tribunal Act has been further violated by another rule, which is not only very deeply embedded in all quasi-punitive proceedings, i.e. in disciplinary proceedings, but also guaranteed in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and which states that the principle of duality is absolutely mandatory in these proceedings. And see: this could have been solved differently. But look what kind of legal monster comes out after the article's been erased. 31 (3). Well, the article says: Discipline is And so far it's been there. A reprimand, a reprimand, the submission of a judge to the Court of Justice of his own motion. The proposed amendment is to delete point 3. And an amendment to the article. 28a is that there will be a request from the General Assembly... There's gonna be a referral for a judge like that to the Sejm. As I said before, I believe that this solution in itself is a mistake and a violation of the basic principle of three divisions of authorities. Plus, we're erasing the bi-instantity here. When it comes to reprimand or reprimand, that is, when it comes to small violations, the judge may appeal. And in this case is the motion and decision of the Sejm, from which there is no appeal. Such a solution is, in our view, a psychic one, and also a violation of the principle of bi-instantity, which probably, if you think about it, could be preserved. It could be preserved even in the case of such, evil, in my opinion, a solution that the Sejm would decide on this issue. Well, that's not there, but I'm gonna be asking around tonight... The last thing I want to say right now is erase the entire chapter 10. We couldn't ask because there wasn't anyone who could answer them. It's very possible that in questions that... And Mr Seweryński said that if necessary, he could answer the questions that we would like to ask the Member, the applicant's representative. So, what is the ratio legis here, why was the entire chapter 10 on proceedings for the finding of an obstacle to the office of the President of the Republic deleted? Oh, yeah. I'm almost done, I'm sorry, it's not, if I understand correctly, the law written here and now under a specific person. This recipe has worked practically forever. Question: What happened and why are we erasing this recipe? I'd like to find out. It is very possible that this is rational action That's why I didn't make an amendment before. So once again, I ask you to explain to me why this entire department has been erased. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u136	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u137	Thank you. I'd like to correct two statements by Senator Pociej, in which he is not exactly Let's say it is. He quoted two of my statements. First of all, I didn't say I'd answer all my questions. I said that questions could be addressed to me, because questions can always be addressed to the president of the meeting. That's one thing. Secondly, I did not say in an affirmative form, to whom the supreme authority in a democratic state should belong, but I said that the dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal was essentially a question of who should be the supreme authority in a democratic legal state. I didn't say who it should belong to, although that's an important question and we'll probably discuss it someday. I said that question was hidden in this dispute. It seems to be a minor matter, but I'd like it to be recorded.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u138	Thank you very much. [[That's still...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u139	Professor, you know very well what respect I have for you. If I misquoted you, I'm sorry, of course, but it wasn't my intention to touch you in any way. [[That's how I take it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u140	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Libicki, to present proposals for minorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u141	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me speak from here, or I'll be brief. [[You're welcome.]] I want to refer to three minority proposals, and basically two, because two of the three proposals are linked. The first request of a minority. We ask for deletion in the article. 1 point 10. This request is linked It's his consequence. With the deletion of This is about us maintaining the current principle that the Court is free in terms of the order in which applications are dealt with. And a second minority motion. Please delete point 13 in Article. 1. This provision has been introduced into the Article. 93 of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, subject to Article. 81. 2, restricting the possibility of identifying applications and legal questions at classified meetings. We'd like to keep these two records. Very often, at the meeting of the Joint Committees, there was a question of why it is so that, on the one hand, we are applying for the rejection of the law and, on the other hand, we are making partial amendments aimed at maintaining the various provisions. The answer is simple: we are against this project, but if we cannot reject it in its entirety, we would like to save at least what we consider to be right and good. That is why, as a minority of committees, we have tabled these two proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u142	Thank you very much. I would ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Rulewski, to present proposals for minorities. The senator was making a motion to reject the bill, and now he's going to present minority proposals.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The minority proposal relates briefly to the wording of the Article. 1 point 16, which, however, contains as many as several articles to be repealed. I would like to start by pointing out that the need to separate these proposals was due to a number of conditions. Here we pay attention to the fact that the bill is procurated, created, on the occasion of a certain event. I don't know what character it is, whether it's good or bad. But we certainly have to agree, as legislators, that the creation of an accident act, for one event, is a bad process. But what do these dozen slips contain? Because it's important. The statement in the Act so far that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is independent and subject only to the Constitution is deleted. This case has never been placed at the edge of a knife before, as the senators do at the moment. Just now, Mr President, Senator Seweryński, pointed out that the principle of sovereignty of the nation or in this case The Court is a matter which causes divisions or conflicts. But it is true, Mr President, that you voted in favour of this amendment so that the responsibility of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is not based solely on the Constitution. In my understanding, the matter of the dichotomy of this authority has been decided by the nation. This nation, exercising its sovereignty, in the Constitutional referendum in 1997, was in favour of the Constitution, and in it was in favour of the right of the Constitutional Tribunal to control, among others. to control Parliament's activities in the area of its legislative function. It is also wrong to think that this is the Constitutional Tribunal... It is still to deepen the argument used by the PiS senators, that 1 of 3 judges decided about the success or shape of the bill. After all, it is wrong, not only because it is written in the Constitutional Act. It is wrong to believe that this is one person who decides. Because the Constitutional Tribunal decides, and the distribution of votes can be as it is in the courts. And it is the practice of the court that it is always decided by a qualified majority, i.e. those of even three judges who have an advantage. And so à by the way, maybe a little for the discharge of moods that are serious, and which may also be the subject of debates by Poles in June when Poland will play for the European Football Championship in Paris: count how many judges are on the football field. [[It's 13.]] Judges. [[No, five.]] [[5.]] Chief Justice... [[It's...]] There's 1 main and 2 auxiliary. [[Those 2 are off the field.]] On the line, yes, auxiliary. Does anyone, please, in the High House, apologize for such relaxation, question this division and intend to increase the number of judges? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] But this view is rejected, and these games are not only watched by Poles, watched by hundreds of millions of fans and, so far, there are no demonstrations in the streets of Paris, London or Warsaw for change. [[They're here. Remember England's game...]] But going back to the situation... I am saying that the nation is the sovereignty, including the Constitutional Tribunal, entrusted in a constitutional referendum and in my opinion until this constitution is changed, that this state must be accepted as normal, corresponding to the views of the people. In further amendments, in further statements made by this legislative omnibus, this proposal is opposed to the repeal of the provision which states that only 15 judges are members of the Court. I no longer have to prove that this is a situational record, which may not stand the test of time and probably, as with the payroll tax law, the government will propose a further amendment. We believe that interference in judicial independence is the fact that the legislator determines that the re-election of a judge to the Court is inadmissible. And it's not a practice... Further, please, the High House, there are also voices that it is unacceptable to elect a senator or a Member for the third time, similarly in local governments. In fact, democracy gives the initiative to voters here. That is why we all the more believe that interfering in the length of a judge's term of office is unpractical and, of course, strikes the independence of a judge. Of course, the situation has led to the rules of procedure... for the selection of candidates to the Court being transferred to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. That's the case. It's pretty famous. And we think it should be in the bill. There is also a matter of time when a candidate is re-notified to the Court or if, for some reason, the term of office of the current judge expires. Nor do we accept that the decision of the judicial assembly should be subject to a cassation complaint. We believe that this legal situation that exists is sufficient. Besides, as indicated here, it has never happened before, and this is the good side of the Court to have someone commit a constitutional delicacy. However, we would like to give the President a greater right to appoint judges to the Constitutional Tribunal, and we would also like the President to decide on the disciplinary nature of the applicants as regards the submission of additional explanations. This is most of these articles, the proposals contained in the minority proposal. I would like to stress here that the Civic Platform does not believe that this is a fundamental issue. It merely has a general reservation that these provisions were created for the present conflict, which should not take place in the case of a constitutional institution such as the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u144	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. You're the first to come forward, Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u145	As announced, I have only one question for you, Senator Sewerinski. Do you know the reason why the applicants were guided by removing Chapter 10 from the Constitutional Court Act? [[Your marshal will give me the floor, won't he?]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u146	Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u147	I'll answer from the spot. I'm reading the same justification as the senator. There's the answer as it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u148	You ask Senator Jackowski a question. Which senator is the rapporteur to?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u149	Thank you very much, Marshal. Question for Senator Rulewski. Because in your first speech, you used such a formula that someone was behind someone in the case of this bill. This reminded me of how one of the party's comrades yelled at Docent Zimand at the Institute for Literary Research in the 1970s in the times of the democratic opposition: 'We know who is behind you!'. And Docent Zimand stood up and said, "There's a chair behind me." So I'd like the senator to tell you why he's using this kind of stylistics from past times and who he specifically meant, claiming that someone is behind the parliamentarians of the applicants who support the bill. I ask you to explain and personalize who the senator meant. Thank you. [[He doesn't remember.]] [[Risky questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u150	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, just the statement you used to say someone's behind someone proves that it can't be personalized. It could be a shadow. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I want to return to your understanding of my question, which was wrong, Senator. I recall that I argued that during the joint committee meeting, the behaviour of the Senators of Law and Justice was stiffened as if they had no decision-making power in small matters. [[But it's an invective!]] [[Thank you very much, Senator...]] It's not an invective. This is my view of the situation. As Senator rapporteur, I have the right to... [[For eight years, it's been for eight years!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u152	Thank you, Senator. You ask the question, Marshal Borusewicz. Which senator is the rapporteur to? [[Senator Rulewski first.]] You're welcome, Senator. [[For the public.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u153	Mr. Senator, is this statement you were asking Senator Jackowski about related to the fact that you remember the times of the Polish People's Republic and you don't remember Senator Jackowski anymore? [[Because he's younger.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's a question for you. [[Three bucks younger.]] And the second question... [[What year are you?]] All right. And the second question, to Senator Sewerinski... [[...who's behind you?]] The second question is for Senator Sewerinski. Could the Senator rapporteur tell you what the legal opinions were received, what were the opinions of the experts, the experts of the Sejm and the Senate, as well as other institutions? What opinions were received and what were they? Did they raise objections to the bill we're investigating or not? Did they support her or not? If they were in favour, I'd like to know in what ways. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm in correction mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u154	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact is that... well, at least my physical posture indicates that my opposition life goes back to the period of the Polish People's Republic, although maybe not all of it. At that time the shadows, which reached further than Warsaw, were divided between parties, the government and the Security Service... This requires us to remember and observe public opinion against similar or similar behaviours. The second reason... Of course you'd like to forget, High Izbo. I'm an engineer by education. The engineer is a man who doesn't look over his shoulder, wants to build a future and thinks he doesn't exist today because someone has come up with something better. But unfortunately, the behaviour of some, in this case of Members, brings these memories back. This is what the Member's prosecutor used yesterday to say: there are dark interests behind you. [[Maybe so.]] Worse... And who is the first to know, for this to be my reward, said, "I will not allow anyone to spit sand into the driven spokes of socialism!" [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Wiesław! Wiesław!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u156	There you go, in Senator Jackowski's correction mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u157	I'm in corrigendum with Marshal Borusewicz. I took it either as I didn't know your marshal, or as my intention to be malicious, I don't know. I leave it to the interpretations of those who have heard it. I want to state that I remember the times of the Polish People's Republic perfectly. I was a student then, I went to the Institute of Literary Research for seminars. In the second half of the 1970s as a student... [[It's a formal matter!]] ...I was associated with the democratic opposition of the University of Warsaw. In 2002, I was granted the status of a victim So don't make me that kind of supposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u158	Thank you, Senator. Senator Wind on a formal matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal, I would like to request that questions which do not concern the matter, the point in question, be repealed. That question wasn't about.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u160	I accept. Thank you very much. Please, we're back to asking questions. Senator Libicki. You're welcome, Senator. [[I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, but Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz asked a question addressed to me and I'd like to answer it.]] [[Yeah, there was a question.]] I'm so sorry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u161	Maybe I won't take care of it from the start. Mr. Marshal, I answer. Opinions were submitted by the Senate Legislative Office, the Sejm Analysis Office, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Bar Council, the Helsinki Human Rights Foundation, the National Judicial Council and the Public Prosecutor's Office. These were written opinions made available to all committee members. In addition, other non-governmental organisations invited to the meeting submitted their opinions. [[But...]] [[Thank you very much. You're asking the senator a question...]] [[But the senator didn't run out of answers to my question. I also asked what those opinions contained. Whether they supported change or not...]] [[Next time.]] [[At least in general, I don't want it in detail.]] [[You're welcome.]] If you don't mind my saying... Firstly, Mr. Marshal, as I said, they were all on the Senate's web pages and they were familiar with them. Secondly, I referred briefly in my speech that there were critical opinions and others, uncritical. There's been a dispute. The statements that were included in the published opinions were critical.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u162	I thank the rapporteur very much. You're asking Senator Libicki a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u163	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo, I have a question for Senator Sewerinski. Well, on 3 December, in his message, President Duda spoke about wanting to start a debate on the place, role and functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, about setting up a team within the National Development Council, which operates with you President. Well, it seems to me that this project, which appears, can be called an element of such a discussion. And I would like to ask Senator Sewerinski if the representatives of the President or the National Development Council took part in the meeting of the Legislative Committee and did they speak? And did it really seem that they wanted to co-form this discussion in some way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u164	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u165	I answer to the senator. Besides, you were present at the meeting and you saw that there were no representatives of the President or the National Development Council. As far as I know, the National Development Council has never been invited to similar discussions before. Maybe it's because she's only gathered a few times. The President's representatives were not invited to this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Dobrzyński a question. Please state to whom you are referring this question. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Borowski. Well, from what I've said...]] [[There's no senator.]] Senator Borowski isn't here, so why don't we put that question aside until Senator Borowski shows up, okay? [[Okay, Mrs. Marshal. Good.]] Good. Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome, Senator. You signed up to ask questions, didn't you? [[I signed up for the discussion.]] It's for discussion. Good. That's in a minute. Senator Bierecki wanted to ask you a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u167	I had a question for Senator Borowski, too, but... [[The senator's here.]] Is he here yet? Oh, thank you. [[You're welcome. Ask me a question.]] Are you Senator Borowski? So I will address the question to Senator Borowski, who in his speech expressed doubts about the size of the Court, the number of judges of the Court. I'd like to ask if the senator has any information on how many judges are now sworn in. Could he give you that information? [[What information? Excuse me...]] How many judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are now sworn in? How many judges are sworn in? Would you like to give me that number? I'm asking because you expressed doubts. on the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's my question for Mr. Borowski. [[Good.]] And the question to Senator Rulewski, who has excellent political discernment and presented this political discernment to us in his speech. I'd like to know... Could the senator tell us how many judges from the Constitutional Tribunal have now been chosen from the recommendations of the Civic Platform or the PSL club? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u168	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u169	Yes, you're welcome. The jury is 15 judges, that's what we know. Yeah, but five judges... [[This is the whole squad.]] No, no, no. No, no, just... [[They're not judges...]] [[15 people...]] The five judges you think of were elected, perhaps on 2 December, if I remember correctly, by means of resolutions eliminating the judges previously elected, without waiting for the judgment of the Court. Consequently, the Court, which, in its judgment, held that three judges previously elected should be sworn in, cannot at the moment accept those five judges. There's just a state of suspension. This state, unfortunately, I must say with pain, was caused both by the Sejm and by the President, who did not wait for the judgment of the Court, but immediately at night swore the judges. And he led us all into a patch that's very difficult to get out of.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u170	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'll fill you in.]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u171	That's a supplementary question. Mr. Senator, what rules do you derive the power of the Constitutional Tribunal to prevent some sworn judges from performing their duties?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u172	Mr. Senator, if the judges were elected by the Sejm, then that choice cannot be annulled. And I'm drawing this from a constitutional provision that says that a judge's dismissal can only happen in certain situations. We know these situations: this is the case when the judge dies, or he will embezzle himself and be discredited. Otherwise, he's unrevocable for nine years. [[When's he gonna be a judge?]] The judge stays when he chooses. [[No, no.]] [[An important choice!]] No, ladies and gentlemen... [[At the moment of important choice!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. Quiet, please.]] This whole theory about the chosen is made for the sake of this argument. The Court said: The Sejm elects judges, not elected persons. And they can't rule because they haven't taken a vow, but they haven't taken it because they don't want to take it or avoid it, just because the president doesn't take it from them. [[Yes!]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, we know how things are.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. Wait a minute, Mr. Senator, Senator Bierecki was asking a question to the senator... [[I can take care of myself for now.]] Wait a minute, because Senator Dobrzyński wanted to ask you a question. But maybe Senator Rulewski... [[No, that's right...]] Okay, this is Senator Dobrzyński, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u174	Mr. Senator, it is generally clear from your statement that you do not question this choice, as we call it, June, these 3 judges, but you consider that 2 judges were chosen too hastily, ahead of schedule. I dare not agree with that, and I would like to ask your opinion on what basis you say so, knowing, Senator, that, however, three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were preparing the Constitutional Court Act, it was, so to speak, active shareholders in the formation of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, this June. And the other thing, Mr. Marshal. I would also like you to refer to the opinion of the Attorney General, who considered that the Constitutional Tribunal has no right, has no competence in its duties to judge the resolutions of the Sejm. I am referring to resolutions on the election of these 5 judges to the Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u175	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u176	As far as the first question is concerned, I didn't really get it, because three judges are coming here, but they don't know which ones. [[Those who, as you believe, have been chosen correctly.]] Yeah, but Mr. Senator was kind to say that they were involved in drafting the bill. [[Not the same, but the Court, three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal.]] I know, but how do you tie these lines? [[I am seeking that the Court later ruled, as in its case, that two judges were not considered to be elected and three judges were found to be chosen correctly.]] [[No, but they didn't judge you.]] But... I understand and... [[Those three guys.]] Do you mean that the Court ruled on the Court Act? [[Those three guys.]] [[In general, the Court...]] [[Those three's buddies were judging.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u177	I have led you to believe that you consider these three judges legally elected because the Court found that they were legally elected. But at the same time, you must agree, Mr. Marshal, that they were ruling on their case. The Court as a whole Because three judges of the Court were actively involved in the drafting of a law which was subsequently sent to President Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u178	Good. I mean, I understand there's one of the three judges, and there's the other three judges. Those who have not been sworn in, and those who are in the Court, but who have participated in the drafting of the law, should therefore not take part in the judgment. Yeah, but they didn't either... [[Well, as... as Mr. Marshal...]] Well, they shut down. [[Mr. Marshal, I wouldn't put it together, just the Court as a whole has acted on its case.]] [[But please calm down!]] Well, okay, so if... that's why I first asked if your doubts were raised by the Court of Justice. Well, that's what it comes down to, isn't it? Of course. Let me put it this way: so far it has not raised any doubts, especially since no one has touched this law, and therefore the Court has not had to deal with it. Well, it appears from the Constitution that the Court is ruling on all laws. We didn't anticipate once, writing a constitution, that it might come to such a mess that happened. Yes, it is today. But that's what I could say after the fact, and I was talking about it in the committee. The proposal is signed by the Kukiz Group15, but also by the PiS Members, to amend the Constitution so that any requests to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of the Act on the Court of Justice are examined not by the Court, but by the Supreme Court. And that seems to me, especially after what is now, logical, absolutely logical. But for now, we have the legal status we have. And the only thing the Court can do... Well, those judges who took part in the drafting of this bill have turned themselves off, which was fair on their part, because they turned themselves in. But we've been working on this bill, and we know why they were there. They were there to ask how certain things were because they were experts. The same is done by the judges of the Court of Justice who are present during the work on change I am talking about the Hague, who are present when the European Parliament is discussing changes to their laws, and none of this makes a problem. But I would stress that the judges of the Court have turned themselves down. Therefore, this claim cannot be made. But in the future, I would like to see the constitutional novel I was talking about. It's just a pity. Okay, I'm gonna stress this. That the PiS Members who signed the proposal to amend the Constitution and to take the role of the Supreme Court into account as a truly credible body, at the same time completely failed to take the opinion of the Supreme Court into account in the case of this law. Well, that indicates that this conclusion was a bit of a show, too. If he was thoughtful, I don't know, but I really liked him.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bierecki asked Senator Rulewski another question... [[Mrs. Marshal, just a moment, please.]] Wait a minute, Mr. Senator, it's in the second round of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u180	But the senator didn't answer the second question, I asked two questions. It's about the opinion of the Attorney General, Senator. [[Good. I'm sorry, but the other one...]] [[Okay, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator. Please.]] It was about the Attorney General's opinion on...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u181	And, the prosecutor's opinion, rightly so, the Attorney General's opinion. Before the hearing, I am referring to the Constitutional Court, which asks the various authorities for opinions, to the government, to the prosecutor general, to the Supreme Court, etc., of course, to the Sejm, and then examines them, it takes them into account when issuing a judgment, which does not mean that it always agrees with them. As far as I can tell, this trial has not yet been scheduled for January 12th. This is one of the opinions that came. So let me be honest with you, I don't know what the Court will do about it. He will refer to it, and there is no doubt about it. And there's actually so much about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u182	Thank you very much. I ask Senator Rulewski to answer Senator Bierecki's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for the smooth conduct of the deliberations that are effectively aimed at ending them, but I must answer the question. Mr. Senator, at first you would like to answer that your question is equivalent to another question: how many are in the Constitutional Court of grandparents or brother-in-laws? I don't know because I'm not interested. But since you're a smart senator, and especially a businessman, it's up to you to elaborate and answer factually, because perhaps others are still interested. In fact, in the current composition of the Court, except for these... I will not express on account of the Christmas Eve of my relationship with the five judges whose president swore instantly. Well, six reported the Civic Platform, four... PSL? [[PSL.]] No, four PiS, and the other four candidates were common. Nevertheless... [[But she chose the Platform.]] ...if you don't mind, I'm gonna go over it with a comment that really goes beyond your own questions, but it's part of the problem. And this is where I come back to the humorous answer. You know life, too, Senator. The judge, when he becomes a judge, not only ceases to be legally a participant in any party or trade union, but in fact because he has a long term of office, nine years, he just wants to be himself. In this respect, this construction of the law, which is still established by independence, by the constitution, by indiscretion, causes that none of us really have an influence on judges. I know only one judge well. And I can't be blamed for that. That's the judge. The Constitutional Court of Leon Kieres... [[He was a senator.]] ...and I know him because he was until he was elected judge, just like I was, for Solidarity.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u184	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. [[And he was a senator of the Civic Platform.]] [[He wasn't from the Platform, he wasn't.]] You ask Senator Dobkowski a question. Please indicate which of the Senators of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u185	I have one question for Senator Rulewski and Senator Pociej, and the other, a short question for Senator Borowski. First question. [[Senator Rulewski, right?]] Senator Rulewski and Senator Pociej. [[Stay here, Jackie!]] Have the senators met with the opinion of the legal authorities that they refer to... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Again. Have the senators met with the opinion of the legal and legal authorities on which you refer: if there is a dispute between the Constitutional Tribunal, which is elected by the Sejm and elected by the people of the Sejm, the Senate and the President, who, according to these authorities, settles this dispute? What does the Constitution say about this? And second question, Senator Borowski. What year was the Constitutional Tribunal formed after World War II? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u186	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u187	Thank you. I also thank you for this question, because it is, in fact, a continuation and perhaps it will allow me to make a clearer view of this dichotomy that has been mentioned here, to which authority is higher and who has, as you ask, a dispute. Here, the Constitution clearly states that disputes concerning both rights and competences, this also applies to legal enquiries and to broadcasting activities for the purpose of compliance, are settled by the Constitutional Tribunal. As a matter of fact, the President is also a subject of some kind, who is the subject of the Constitutional Tribunal's legitimate aspirations. It is not that the President is a party to the Court, the President often benefits from the assistance of the Constitutional Tribunal. Of course, this is basically a threefold division of power. And here is a point, a general remark, related to what trumps from the tone of your speech, and earlier, during the last debate of Members of the Sejm. . that the Court has usurped its right to sovereignty, absolute power, that one person decides whether the bill is successful or shaped or that disputes are competent. This is an unauthorized thesis, because the Court actually has the authority on one subject only... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm asking you to calm down...]] ...when it comes to our affairs, in the matter of investigating the compatibility of laws with the constitution. I draw attention to the fact that with other laws, with laws that are in line with the Constitution, Parliament can do anything, can repeal these laws, amend or issue new laws, and the Court cannot do anything, i.e. it has neither absolute power nor unlimited power. He is only an examiner of laws on their constitutional correctness. This is not power. Thank you, Mr President, because you nodded. [[That's why the Sejm is changing the laws.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u188	Thank you very much, senator. I would ask Senator Pociej to answer the question asked by Senator Dobkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u189	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, the answer to your question is an article. 188 and Art. 189 constitutions. Art. 188 provides that the Constitutional Tribunal shall rule on the compatibility of international laws and agreements with the Constitution. And here... This is, of course, contested, because the whole dispute is that we have all been manipulated into the situation that the Court, as it is sometimes said, is ruling in its own case. It's basically... I am not questioning that this is a problem, Mr. Marshal Borowski was talking about the fact that, in fact, it is very possible that instead of focusing on what we are doing now, we were able to sit down and, as part of a consensus, resolve this problem, which is a real problem, is not a political problem, it is just a systemic problem. And actually, instead of boxing here, it's... In fact, something that would be moving forward, what we were talking about, this consensus... Separation of everything concerning the Constitutional Court, just to the cognition of the Supreme Court... But there's still art. 189, which is very often eluded and which states: "The Constitutional Tribunal shall settle disputes of competence between the central constitutional authorities of the State. And unfortunately, Mr. Senator, I'm here to answer your question. It is not stated anywhere that the Court cannot settle this dispute in its own case either in favour of itself or in favour of Parliament. That's a double premise for answering your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u190	Thank you very much, Senator. The third question, Mr. Senator, was to... [[Senator Borowski's case was...]] Senator Borowski. But there's no senator... [[Voices from the O.R.:]] There it is. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. You're a senator. [[I think the senator remembers the question.]] You're welcome, Senator. [[Voice from the Chamber: When the Court was founded...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u191	I understand that the senator asked about the date of the establishment of the Court of Justice in Poland? [[Yeah, yeah.]] In Poland? Yes. So you could say that he was appointed for a time, and the activity... In 1985, he began his judicial activity in 1986. Here I will say a few words, because I have come across such arguments: what are we defending here the Court, since this is the idea of Peerelow-Jaruzelski? So it's like we're defending something that's long gone. Of course, at that time various institutions were appointed, for example, the Ombudsman was also appointed in the Polish People's Republic, the first spokesperson was Professor Łętowska... [[Voice from the room: Delete...]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: Delete.]] No, no, no, no, no. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And nobody's gonna say that this is a bad institution, unnecessary, etc. Institutions shall be filled with content by the persons who perform these functions and by the laws which accompany them. From 1986 until 1997 the Constitutional Tribunal acted in accordance with completely different rules and from 1997 in accordance with other rules. So I don't think this date could be invoked as an argument in any direction.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u192	Thank you, Senator. You're asking Senator Klich a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u193	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Sewerinski. I really appreciate your quickness, Mr. Senator, but I'd like to ask you two questions, because as senators, we should all know about them. First of all, Mr. Senator, what was the content of our Legal Bureau's opinion? This opinion was presented very precisely to us, the senators, at the joint committee meeting. Is it true that there are several constitutional charges in this opinion, namely, in other words, those which the Legislative Office makes regarding the non-compliance of the proposed law with the Constitution? And second question. Visitors from non-governmental organisations who spoke were invited to the meeting. Let me remind you that this is about four NGOs. Did any of those who spoke, representing these four NGOs, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, Amnesty International and two others, namely the Panoptychon and the Civic Legislative Forum, speak uncritically about the procedated text? In the documents you mentioned, the opinions you submitted to us... Was any of these opinions uncritical of the proposed text of the Act? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u194	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u195	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I know that the senator would like us to fully disclose to the Senate what those opinions were. The participants in the debate know what it was like. I've already said it, lapidar, but I'll say it again. Former Critical Opinions The Legal Bureau's opinion was also critical, even very critical... I have taken such a position on this opinion that it is only an opinion, not a judgment, although there are no statements that can only be made by the Constitutional Tribunal. Yeah, that's where the charges are clearly made. There are strong statements about the violation of the constitution. In my opinion, And that's what I said at the committee meeting. This opinion goes beyond the standards of the Legal Office's opinion and is more than that... And that's why I argued with that argument. And as for all the other written opinions that were presented, and the oral opinions... Those were critical opinions, as I also said. I told you there was one Mr. Senator Gogacz brought her up. A positive opinion, expressed in the press. Senator Gogacz quoted it. It was Dr. Piotrowski's opinion... She was also introduced. This was indeed the only positive opinion from the outside presented in the debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u196	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. You ask the question, Senator Wind. There's no... This, please, is Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Borowski. [[Let the others ask. Why do you ask?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But what are you booing about?]] [[Please, Mr. Senator, ask me a question. Which Senator of the rapporteur?]] Senator Borowski. Is it not a certain misuse, unlawful thesis that has been expressed as concerns overobserved by the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal after the changes and the need to rule in full court? The information available to the public shows that the German Federal Constitutional Tribunal is investigating between 3 000 and 5 000 cases per year, such as Italian cases of about 2 000 cases. I will mention here that the number of judges of the German Court is 16 and the Italian Court is 15. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u198	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Borowski to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u199	If you don't mind, I'll answer... [[From where?]] ...from here. Okay? [[You're welcome.]] Mr. Senator, I don't know these numbers, but I'll try to verify that and answer you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u200	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Rulewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u201	I am addressing my question to President Sewerinski because I did not get a precise answer at the joint committee meeting, and the question concerned the opinion of the applicants or other institutions on the compatibility of the contested law with European law. What's the question? Indeed, Mr President answered that this was being examined and it is concluded... The applicants also confirmed that there were no collisions in this respect. Only at the request of Mr Piotrowicz, this office issued two opinions. One states that the draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act is not covered by European law. I don't know why such an obvious statement has been changed and now it sounds like this. I think it's up to date. That the project is not a draft law implementing European Union law. So the question is, which opinion do you think is valid?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u202	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u203	The senator would like me to speak outside the limits of my powers. No opinion is valid. They're both needed because they're both saying different. That's not what they're saying. The first says that we are not implementing any legal act of the European Union, and the second says why we are not doing it: because there is no law of the European Union. The fact that the Constitutional Tribunal may ask legal questions to the European Court is the only thing that connects the Court with European law. Both of these statements are entitled. Both of them. The Sejm Analysis Bureau didn't make any mistakes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u204	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Major, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u205	Mrs. Marshal, High Senate, allow me to ask Senator Rulewski a question. Was the subject of the committee's deliberations the cause of the situation in which we took corrective action in the area of the Constitutional Tribunal? I would like to remind you: the reason for this situation was that the Sejm of the previous term of office or the majority of the Sejm entered the powers of the parliament of the current term of office, electing representatives to the Constitutional Tribunal. And here, by the way, Mr. Senator, I'm gonna talk about that stiffening you were talking about right away. Sometimes it's like a man's neck gets stiff when he sees something that scares him, it's amazing. In an extreme case, it could cause paralysis. But we're lucky we're not paralyzed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u206	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u207	High Izbo, and because of the Platform, it won't happen, and even if it did, I'm here to help. And to answer the question, I will say this: indeed, during the multifaceted deliberations of the committee, the claims were even made in the form of accusations. I won't mention it because I can't remember exactly what the senator said. However, I would like to satisfy your curiosity with my position on this matter. First thing. Indeed, according to the Constitutional Court's ruling that the June Law was chosen, as they say in quotes, for backup. A comment is added here that the coalition at that time protected itself from poor electoral results and protected itself from the flank or the third chamber of parliament in the form of this excess of the judge. I would like to point out to the senator that at this time, i.e. before June, the listings of both the Platform and the initiator of this law, its designers, Mr Komorowski, were very good and no indication of failure. So there were no reasons why they would order themselves to form a flank in the future, as you say, a victorious parliament this time. There was no indication of that. Next: such on-call thesis is that it is an assassination, that this is the first cause of everything, of all this conflict. Mr. Senator, all the government teams of the Third Republic have broken the constitution, supposedly 260 times, and the Court has examined these cases and ruled that they are incompatible. None of them were attributed to these actions, that there was an assassination. I myself admit that I was the initiator of the amendments to the laws which the Constitutional Tribunal repealed as non-constitutional. And finally, the third issue. We have dealt with the fact that the Court is watching over us and that any errors will be shown by the Court's ruling. It seems that this is the way your colleagues went when they made such a request, because they had not protested before, because they had been able to express their opinions for two years and I think they were saying them. And very well. They could file a motion and file it, but unexpectedly, because of the crocodile's policy, they decided that if they won, it wasn't about the law, it was about power.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u208	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. You're asking Senator Dowhan a question. Are you the senator? There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u209	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a question for Senator Sewerinski. I would like to point out that I respect your professor very much, I know you from your previous term of office. Such questions have been raised here, but somehow I can't accept the fact that you as an authority, as well as the authorities who have expressed opinions that we should lean on... And those opinions were devastating. These were the opinions of the Supreme Court President, the Supreme Bar Council, the Attorney General and others. And one thing that didn't matter was positive, and yet... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes. And can we not lean on this and really put aside political animosities and discuss, Professor, the very important issue that has raised not only one House and another Chamber, but also thousands of people who have gone out on the street? Don't you and your party get what's going on, and the way you're going right now is nowhere? Thank you. [[Thank you very much. And there you go, Professor...]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I don't really understand what the senator's question is. Maybe he could explain it.]] [[Please clarify, Senator.]] My question is why authorities who have expressed their views on what we are currently considering are not taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u210	Mr. Senator, I will answer by repeating what I said at the committee meeting. These opinions were taken into account, because we all heard them, and everyone could judge them. And I only reminded you at the beginning that the experts of the final instance in these cases are the senators themselves. It is they, according to their best knowledge and conscience, who are to say what they think of these various expertises, these different opinions and what they think will be best for the Republic of Poland. So it cannot be said that we did not deal with these opinions. On the contrary, there were speeches, as you remember. Although you haven't been around all this time, but I can assure you, others will, too. In which these opinions were welcomed, these opinions were very convincing to certain senators. And there were senators saying that it was unconvincing. I can, for example. To tell you how I reacted to those opinions. It seems to me that judging in an enlarged composition gives the chance to fit all the points and beliefs in the Court's ruling and thus make them more substantively, more reliable, and thus less politically unilateral. This was the answer to some of the allegations put forward and in written opinions and in the opinions spoken. So, in short, all the opinions were presented, we all heard what was said there, and in this way they were considered. Even if someone did not make a public statement on what he thought about these opinions, he spoke through a vote. I think that reflects the actual course of our sitting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. The question is asked by the Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Sewerinski, the committee's rapporteur. In the opinion of many legal authorities, the new law will in practice paralyze the functioning of the Court. And it will not only block the examination of the compatibility of the laws with the constitution, but also... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please.]] ...definitely makes it harder to rule on ordinary citizens who are already in the Court and have been brought forward by the Ombudsman. These are matters concerning, among others, issues such as retention of driving licences, temporary work, reimbursement of expropriated property, lack of eviction protection on the pavement, tax rates in case of electronic publication, fees for compulsory exchange of driving licences and many others. Have the authors of the bill discussed here at least for a moment wondered how harmful this proposal is for most citizens and how it will block their ruling for many years? Will you confirm the senator's opinion on the issues set out here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u213	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u214	Mr. Senator, I, too, have considered these issues. I listened to the presentation. here the plea raised earlier, at committee meetings, not only by one person. We need to ask ourselves this question, we cannot ignore the aspect discussed here, we need to think about it, and we need to make an assessment. I cannot say that there is no certain risk of slowing down the Court's judgments, because it is subject to higher quality requirements by means of certain composition and procedure requirements. But here, in my opinion, is a higher goal, a higher value. We want judgments to be better, less controversial, and as a result, That the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal should not be called into question. And what we are talking about here is the price that may have to be paid to get even higher quality judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. It is at the price of a slowing down that we do not know is going to happen. What you're talking about is a hypothesis, it's a fear. Everyone has the right to formulate such a fear. I hope she doesn't confirm that nothing like this is gonna happen. But if this happens, we will have to respond accordingly. Those of you who weren't at our committee meeting. Because not everyone could be at our two meetings, I'll say, I'll remind you what I said at the end. I believe that this law is not the ideal solution to the issue that I put at the end, namely: who in a democratic, legal state is to exercise the highest authority? The correct answer to this question, adapted to the experience, to the events we have experienced over the 25 years in a democratic state... This is a constitutional debate. And the President has proposed such a debate, and our parliamentarians in the Sejm have also proposed such a concept, and they have made such a proposal. It was signed by the Members of Law and Justice and the initiators of the Kukiz party15. I hope that everyone who wants the best, perfect regulation, the answer to the question I've asked "To whom the highest authority is to belong in a democratic legal state" They will join this debate and seek the optimal solution to which, in my opinion, it leads only through appropriate constitutional regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u215	Thank you very much, Professor. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask Senator Borowski a few questions. Mr. Senator, two days ago, I believe Professor Safjan asked for some information, and I'm interested in whether she was even the subject of the committee's deliberations. Because this is a frequently repeated argument. That is how the Professor asked: please inform me that the President of the European Court of Justice participates every time in the work of the European Parliament in the drafting of the law relating to this tribunal. At the same time, he said that the Supreme Court judges in the United States are also involved in lawmaking. Did you ever talk about this topic? I'm asking because the senator answered briefly, so if I could, I'd like to know if this thread was even discussed at the committee meeting. Second question. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, good practice, a good example is something we should imitate, and history is treated as a teacher and draw conclusions for the future. Could you tell the senator if there were good examples and bad examples discussed at the committee's meeting, when this was the case whether a similar course had been followed or followed with the Constitutional Tribunal? I am talking about European countries, I am not interested in other countries, and I am not asking about the last 10 years, but at all about the history of Europe. And the third question that Professor Sewerynski has already answered in part, but perhaps the senator will find something positive. In preparing for this debate and for the committee's meeting, did the senator come across any positive opinion on this draft amendment to the Constitutional Court Act in private, on a business basis?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u217	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u218	Thank you. On this occasion, first, I will answer the question of Senator Ambrozik, who compared whether or not he cited the data concerning the Federal Constitutional Tribunal in Karlsruhe. There are actually a few thousand cases per year. What's the point? Namely, in Germany, citizens can submit these complaints directly. In Poland, a citizen can only file a complaint after the entire judicial procedure has passed, which, of course, leads to the fact that we have fewer of these complaints. But in turn, the vast majority of complaints that affect there, the individual ones, are unreasonable and are immediately eliminated. Besides, we have the same thing in the Strasbourg Court. Whoever is interested in this knows that the court in Strasbourg is affected by the fact that I can't exactly say Some 100,000 complaints, something within these limits, and there are teams of lawyers, not even judges, experienced lawyers, who develop these complaints and suggest, propose either a reception or a rejection. It's the same in Germany. As a result, 6% of these several thousand are accepted for consideration. As I found out, that's the statistical indicator. Therefore, this is completely comparable to our situation. I can say that the numbers are uneven due to different characteristics. It is now... As far as Senator Czarnobaj's questions are concerned, I will say this: in fact, this case has grown to the level of the problem, perhaps because the President of Judge Rzepliński did not hide, so to speak, in the mouse hole, but from time to time he said. Because the political struggle is harsh, every argument is good, so a biased judge. As far as participation in the work is concerned, it's actually... As far as Professor Safjan is concerned, this is it. At the moment, perhaps the most experienced constitutionalist, a Polish lawyer, who was not only the President of the Court of Justice in Poland, but is sitting in the European Court of Justice, is highly valued in the international arena and knows all these procedures very well. He said it, and it is true that when Parliaments adopt laws on the judiciary, including the constitutional judiciary, the Presidents of these courts or invited judges take part in this because they are experts. They are asked, explained, and the decisions are made by Parliament. After all, Parliament has made decisions with us. The proposal was made, it was the President's legislative initiative and then it was dealt with by the Members. Let me put it this way: I remember what it was like in the Senate. There was Professor Rzepliński, who sat in front of me, and he reported... When asked how things were going down there, he said that he thought it would be better if the vote was held and the committee said otherwise. It's just that. And sometimes I was sorry because I thought he was right. What I'm trying to say is that the president just came up with the first version of the proposal. I don't know how much of this was from the Court's proposal, maybe there was something In order for candidates to be selected for the Court to be selected by various legal bodies: National Judicial Council, Faculties of Law of Important Universities, etc., etc. So it was all about making it more substantive. Of course, it was not denied that then they chose MEPs, little of it, not denied that Members could also submit their own candidacy. And Rzepliński defended this solution, but he didn't defend it. He didn't. It was deleted in the Seym, and in the Senate, for example, I offered to restore it, but I lost. Rzepliński lost, too. So that I think that this attack on the Court, the accusation of taking part or writing this law, etc. It's more of a political game than referring to facts. Now, about the story, how the bad examples there were... Mr. Senator used, apparently, the wording of the history of the master vitae, the history of the teacher of life. Well, if history really was a teacher of life, it would be very good, but it's not. And we make the same mistakes all the time, even though we keep referring to history. I can say that indeed attempts to attack constitutional tribunals, which in some countries existed before the war, are known, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't make me do this... I'm not talking about comparison. I don't compare it to that period. But that was true in Austria for Chancellor Dollfuss, who, without knowing how to deal with the tribunal, withdrew three of his judges whom he had previously appointed, and at his request they resigned and could not choose any further, so the tribunal could not judge and Dollfuss was satisfied and then led Austria to a pact... not to a pact, but to surrender to Hitler. It was the same with Quisling in Norway. But, if you'll excuse me, Mr. Senator, these are not examples that fit this situation. That's not the point. I've told you before what the consequences of these actions will be, and that's it. And finally, positive opinions. I have already mentioned this at the committee meeting. But I can say it again. I am interested in this matter because I was one of the co-authors of the Constitution, including its preamble, I can say that there are a number of my records, and for these several years I have been interested in everything that concerns the Constitution, all articles, etc., and in the recent period in particular. So not only did I analyze opinions that were formally coming, but I also read articles about them in various newspapers, magazines. And I must tell you that even lawyers who have stated that the Court has many flaws and that certain demands of law and justice are legitimate and need to be considered and so on... But everyone, as far as these provisions are concerned, I have been talking about That is to say, to rule in full on most cases and on the duty of two thirds... Everyone thinks that this will slow down the Court's extremely significant work and that it is simply not a good idea. And, frankly, I haven't met with another opinion. And I was talking about Dr. Piotrowski, and I will repeat that he did not accept this provision, which is in this law. He merely stated that in cases where, according to the current rules, it is necessary to rule fully, it would be better if it were 13 judges and 2/3... But this is not the same as the above-mentioned provision, it would have to be formulated in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Senator Ambrozik want to ask you another question? No. Thank you very much. [[I mean, not the senator.]] Okay, I get it. Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Augustine. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u220	Mr President, I am speaking to Mr Sewerinski. I asked that question at the committee meeting, but I didn't get the answer, so I'm going to repeat it. The Senate has special obligations as regards constitutional order. It is written in our regulations. And it is known that the best way to remedy the situation is to implement the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, not a pseudo-legal law that does not count against those judgments. My question, which I repeat, was whether Mr. Marshal, who, when asked about the previous amendment, said that absolutely, by virtue of the article. Article 85a (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) 1 of Chapter 9a of our Rules of Procedure will immediately pass the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal for review by the Legislative Commission, pass, to your knowledge, the last two judgments, so that we may consider them and actually begin to fix the situation? Or wasn't it done? What is your knowledge of this?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u221	Thank you very much. Please, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u222	Senator, over the past few weeks, since the Senate's current term of office began in the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which I chair, there have been no cases concerning the execution of the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. What was in the other committees? I don't know.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u223	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator. You ask Senator Ambrosik a question. You're maintaining your desire to ask a question, aren't you? Which of the senators of the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u224	Senator Rulewski. Thank you. Mr. Senator, as a newly elected member of the National Judicial Council, I cannot ask a question about the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. Mr. Senator... [[Into the microphone, Mr. Senator, because you can't hear...]] Senator Rulewski, I'm sorry. Whether the newly introduced provisions, in particular, I am talking about the question of the need to rule in full or to deal with cases in accordance with the order of their impact to the Court of Justice... Isn't that the strengthening of the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges? Do you not think that, before introducing these provisions, one could imagine some political pressure to deal with certain matters sooner or later, or political pressure on the introduction of a limited composition in case of examination of certain matters? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u225	You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, well, the Court too... This is not a divine tribunal. This is a human tribunal. There may be pressure, there may also be subjective feelings of the judges of the Court, which they sometimes express in judgments. The Act expressly specifies that separate votes may be submitted. Also about the order... But the bill decides the procedure for order. The present law gives prerogatives to the President of the Court. But the President is not an absolute authority, he is subject to review of the assembly of judges, also the formations of judges, as I recall. It has an impact on the procession. And finally, you say that the order, the influence, is indeed such an abstract one, but because, as you say, it is a fair term. Okay, but that's the reality of our work. I think that this will also happen to the Law and Justice, indicating that the Court's tasks already show what matters it is to deal with. The President is distinguished. I'm betting on it. The Court's questions about the compatibility of the budget law or part thereof and the deadline is shortened. Similarly, the Ombudsman seems to be concerned. Finally, the need to reject calendar registration as a criterion stems from the fact that the Court is in receipt of cases The main purpose of the Court of Justice is to defend human rights and human rights violations and others, e.g. related to the compliance of the regulation with the law, as I mentioned. Therefore, let us trust the self-government of the Court. Let us trust that she can determine the order and importance of influence. In common courts, as far as I know, it's not like the order of influence... Because then you could imagine the opposite phenomenon of flooding courts with trivial matters in order not to settle important matters. And in this case, that could happen too. I don't know if you're satisfied with this, but there's really no room for calendar classification either, Senator, in the Seym. That, too... I do not want to compare, but it is up to the marshal to put something in order, and if there is a dispute, then the Members and Senators decide which case is more important. And we don't know for sure if we were right, but we are surrendering to the authority of the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, wait a minute, there's a line. Wait a minute. Now you ask Senator Zdrojewska a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u228	Thank you very much. I wasn't supposed to ask any questions, but one of my fellow senators mostly moved me to do that when he said to his colleague, and also to the majority: forget it, let them ask. So I decided to ask. And I'll answer this senator. I don't know whose name I'm going to name, but I'm sure he knows who we're talking about, and we've been trying to ask them today... [[Senator, do you have a question for any of the senators of the rapporteurs?]] Yeah, let me ask you a question. Wait a minute. [[Well, that's a question I'm asking you to ask.]] Yeah, let me ask you a question. Let me just say that we asked a lot of questions today. Your marshal wasn't present. In the morning at the committee meeting, we sat for nearly eight hours and asked questions. We didn't really have anybody to ask, because, as it has been many times here today, the chairman of the committee, who led this meeting of the two joint committees, was very laconic and basically didn't answer our questions, and there was no Mr.Piotrowicz, who signed the draft amendments. I'll have two questions. This question will be for Mr Sewerinski and concerns the proceedings of today's committee meeting. Here we would like to thank the President. Indeed, unlike his colleague at the Sejm, who did not appear despite our invitation, he conducted this meeting very substantively, but, as I said, we did not get an answer to the questions asked. And what has already happened today is the answer given by your professor, Mr Sewerinski, two. Wait until I tell you what's going on. Answer questions about these opinions. The professor answered once in a philosophical manner, and once very briefly, I wouldn't want to shorten it. That opinion is an opinion. And at the committee meeting, you said that every senator makes decisions in his own conscience, if I understand the president correctly. But I would like to say that these last twenty years of building democracy in Poland was also building certain procedures. And it's not a coincidence that. in the legislative process, the opinion of the legislators, the opinion of external experts who, as independent lawyers, present these opinions to us. Second thing... [[Senator, I'm asking you a question.]] Yeah, I'm almost done. [[Senator, I'm so sorry. I remind you that now the senators are to ask questions that last no more than one minute. You're welcome, Senator, to ask you a specific question.]] I'll try to conclude. And the second thing is the role of the organization. Also these organizations... I'm talking about very important things, Mrs. Marshal, because I think... [[But there will be a discussion...]] But you interrupt me when I answer you. [[I'm very sorry, Senator, you'll have a discussion, you'll be able to speak freely. I would ask you to ask a question and refer it to a specific Senator of the rapporteur. You're welcome.]] I am directing this question to Professor Sewerinski. I would like to ask your opinion and your attitude towards the role of independent experts in the legislative process, the role of NGOs and their presence in the legislative process, including. at the Senate committee meetings. And I would also like to ask you about the role of the highest state authorities, institutions such as the Supreme Court or the prosecutor. What am I supposed to tell my constituents? Didn't the majority councillors take these opinions completely into account, or did they take them and ignore them all? It means that you all know better than these outstanding authorities than those organisations representing society. Thank you, and I apologize for the extension...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u230	Senator, I think I'm gonna repeat myself, but you repeated the question I've already answered. As for considering the opinion, considering them... I don't know if we understand the same thing when it comes to this phrase. To consider it means to consider it. If you don't understand it... Some people understand it this way: considering it means agreeing to the opinion. I don't understand it that way. Taking into account that is to read the opinion, to evaluate this opinion and to acknowledge whether I can unite with this opinion, whether I can identify with it or not, whether I accept it as my own, or whether I do not accept it as my own. All senators according to their best knowledge and I'll say it again, I said it. According to their conscience, they are to decide which opinion convinces them and agrees with them and which does not convince them and disagrees with them. Because according to their own judgment, they can decide otherwise. And yet, I would like us to understand that the Supreme Court does not express itself in judgments which we have to respect unconditionally as valid, otherwise the Supreme Court says Only this one authority I have chosen, although other high authorities have also submitted their opinions When he gives his opinion. Then he's just an expert, the same expert as the other experts who said their opinions. For some of us this may be the most important expert and we will recognise this opinion without reservation, for others it may be an expert who is wrong in his opinion. It seems to me that there is nothing more to say about this, because, as I said, all the opinions were read, all the opinions were evaluated by us, considered. I would also like the senator, as a person who is just starting her ministry of the Republic of Poland here in the Senate, to know that in this committee we have always asked for opinions from all the authorities that you have mentioned to these institutions. As you saw, the opinions were delivered, read, considered. We are willing to listen to such statements, such experts, so as not to hurt anything important. And whoever has the expertise ultimately in his vote is, as I said, connected with his best knowledge, his conscience, his good will. And that's the personal decision of every senator. I don't think it's worth going back to these issues. Maybe I haven't answered any of the other questions that were there, but I think you'll agree that I don't know everything, so I'm not gonna talk about things I don't know anything about. Besides, I like to answer briefly. We've had eight hours of fun, and if I were to give a paper on every case, we'd probably be sitting there by now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much. Calm down, please. You're asking Senator Zientarski a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal, a question for the Professor. Professor, for me to consider an opinion and to ignore all opinions, I stress: everyone It's not... That's why I'd like you to be clear. You also referred to your opinion... He's not even a doctor, he's a professor at the University of Warsaw, he's a PhD in Piotrowicz. I know that absolutely doesn't question everyone's clear opinion that you can't add these 2/3... These were only questions about the situation that you were talking about, Marshal Borowski, which is a lack of acceptance. Not even a press release... It was just de lege ferenda's reflections, completely abstract. So are you familiar with Dr. Piotrowski's opinion, which you are referring to, which would accept the recognition of all cases or most cases in full composition? Were there possibly any other opinions, or even one opinion, of one constitutionalist, who would find the opinion of all these authorities unfounded? [[Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman...]] [[I'm sorry, but I didn't understand that question. I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Then rephrase them, so concisely.]] The question is simple. You referred to Dr. Piotrowski's opinion. Mr. Marshal Borowski explained twice that Dr. Habilated Piotrowski absolutely did not support the concept which is presented in this submission. These were de lege ferenda's considerations on the question of a possible future full composition, which could be in a different constitution... Dr. Piotrowski I've been to a conference like this. He never said that the Court should rule on the basis of the current constitution by a two-thirds majority, that this is acceptable. That's what he was cutting himself off from. Hence my question. You're serving an opinion that is misinterpreted by Mr. Borowski. I ask: whether there was any other such opinion or whether any other constitutionalist expressed a positive opinion about this submission. Do you know a guy like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u233	Thank you. [[If I may...]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u234	Mr. Senator, you're asking me if there were any other opinions. I've already said it, I've even talked about it a few times, and I won't say it again. And I don't think you can blame me or complain that I interpret the opinion of Professor Piotrowski, quoted by Senator Gogach, in a different way than Senator Borowski. That's what I'm talking about. Each of us, according to our best knowledge, understanding and conscience, interprets, recognizes and appreciates or does not recognize the opinions that have been presented. I think it's obvious to me. I don't know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I have a question for Senator Rulewski about what we have recently heard here, that the Civic Platform and the coalition don't have to worry about the results of the autumn elections that we have behind us in June, because then everything was okay. Do you see the link between the following dates: 10 May, this is the date of the first round of elections, which the President, Mr Komorowski, is losing grimly then, and 12 May, that is the date of the joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and of the Legislative Committee, at which this meeting, at the end of which, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, added to the text of the draft law this fatal article. 137 at the time it was an art. 135a, that was his numbering back then. In the presence of the President of Rzepliński, the Vice President of Biernat and the Head of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Maciej Graniecki? Is there a causal link between the election, two days earlier, the losers? The first tour, of course. Is there no causal link, or is that a coincidence?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u237	Thank you very much. I ask the senator to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, it's hard to call it a union. I can only agree that this is your hypothesis.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u239	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Golba a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u240	Mr. Senator... I'm here to see Senator Rulewski. [[Senator rapporteur, please, there is a question for you.]] I am practically on the same subject, Senator, I want to ask you a question, because it has a very important impact on what we are investigating today when it comes to an additional selection of 2 judges to the Constitutional Tribunal in June. In your statement, among other things, you pointed out that maybe this decision, this choice in general was as if in reserve. I would therefore like to ask you: what was the purpose, or perhaps the plan? Do you know... I'm sure you talked about it at the club as a platform. Someone must have persuaded Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Mr Kropiwnicki, to make such an amendment. I also have a question of why you did not simply stop Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Member, from such a decision. Why did he make such an amendment? Why would he do that? And another question, third. Did you have any legal opinion? I'm sure you've got some outstanding lawyers in your group. Expertise, in particular, on this subject? Why did you actually do that? And on what grounds? Has such an opinion or expertise ever been? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, I understand the questions. They have been answered repeatedly. Once again, I stress that the decision was made by Parliament, although it is impossible to hide the fact that at that time the majority in Parliament had a coalition. It is also not possible to shirk the responsibility for the decision and say: this is how they voted, sorry, this Parliament has it. The truth is, the law doesn't deny it. It was also examined in our committee, where you are Professor Seweryński at the head, which you cannot deny. It is true that there were reservations, as I have already said, on the part of the Helsinki Foundation, about precisely this, but they did not arouse such emotions. As I said in the justification for the minority proposal, such a lively social response, including Members and Senators, is influenced not only by this two-way legislative initiative of the PiS, Law and Justice, but also by the events, such as the previous statements of President Kaczyński, who announced his wish to change the constitution. And in these purposes, in the form of violation of procedures, we discover such a crawling form of constitutional change. To be honest, I am particularly upset by the attitude of law and justice lawyers who so unwittingly raise their hands for something which, however, was neither custom nor practice of the Senate. There's plenty of room here, like I said, to cross the bounds of loyalty. Often in Polish reality happened And it's a kind of guarantee of independence. That many people were beyond the limits of loyalty: whether in the case of a black eagle agreement, whether against the occupier, against the Germans, against the Communists. It was done to make this Poland independent. And this is how I treat my mission when I am quite strongly in favour of reaching a compromise and ultimately rejecting this law. [[Mr. Senator... Mrs. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u242	Please, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u243	Mr. Senator, I asked you if you had any opinion on this matter, so that these additional judges of the Constitutional Tribunal may choose as if on the other hand, forward... Yes? So you could pick them up by 2058 in a string like this. Yes? Was there any legal opinion, the expertise of your lawyers, yours, to say, the legal authorities... Did you have any legal opinion on this? Because you said it was the Sejm who made the decision. [[Parliament.]] Parliament, right. But did you have any positive legal expertise? [[Voice from the room: The law of the majority.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u244	Calm down, please! [[Gentlemen, I'm not asking you. I'm asking the rapporteur.]] Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u245	I don't remember that. I'm sure there's been a discussion around this... Because all matters, at least in the senate club, in the senate group, are discussed from the point of view of law enforcement. Then he's teasing us. I say this in quotes, in a positive sense, the legislative department that checks compliance with the constitution. And finally... I do not want to indicate anything here, but the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions in that term was chaired by Professor Seweryński and earlier by Senator Piotrowicz. It was a domain of law and justice. But I was the vice-president, and I have the same responsibility as the people I've asked for. We didn't run an expert campaign on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u246	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Dowhan a question. Please, which of the senators of the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u247	Senator Sewerinski. Is this amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act related to this And such voices can be heard that there are some laws on which you fear that you may be challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal? Surely the Court will approve, even if the amount of 500 PLN per child proposed by you will approve it, even if it is higher, as if it were 1 000 PLN, 2 000 or 5 000 PLN. I'm sure the Constitutional Tribunal won't question the amount of tax-free money either. Or do you, somewhere in the media, prepare other laws, such as those relating to media or public gatherings? [[Thank you very much. That's a question for Senator Sewerinski, isn't it? Mr. Senator, please...]] [[I'm really sorry, but I just got a call and I couldn't listen to the question. May I ask you to repeat the question?]] [[Please repeat the question.]] Okay, Mrs. Marshal. I'd love to say it again. We're tired, from 7:00 a.m. this morning... But that's who's gonna hold on to who. Okay... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: You want it that way.]] [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]] Right. There's a Christmas dinner on the phone if you need anything, so don't worry, we can... [[Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to ask me a question.]] I'm just responding to all those fights and laughs. [[Are you guys ready for Christmas Eve yet? Well, well.]] [[Until the second day of Christmas.]] Can I go now? [[I'm asking you a quick question.]] Thank you. Dear Senator rapporteur, is this change and process at such a rate and mode over the Constitutional Court Act... Isn't it that you're preparing some laws that you're afraid of, that the Court will question them, and which you're talking about, because they're being reported to the media, you're talking about them? After all, it is clear that the Court will not question this. At least I hope so. And no one will protest if we give you an application for 500 PLN... [[Is that bad?]] [[Voice from the room: That's good.]] ...or 1 000, 2 000, 5 000 PLN per child, or if there is a higher tax-free amount, tax reduction, VAT, etc. I'm sure the Court won't question that. But maybe other laws are being prepared? For example, what is said loudly, the law on amending the media law, the law on public gatherings. Perhaps that's the reason?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u248	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u249	Mr. Senator, I am entitled to speak on matters that have been the subject of a joint committee. The matter you raised was not the subject of a joint committee. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal... [[I'm dropping the question. It's already been asked by the predecessor.]] Thank you very much. You're asking Marshal Karczewski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u251	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, Mr Jan Rulewski. If you're a senator, you're welcome... [[There it is, there it is.]] [[Yes, it is.]] Mr. Senator, you know the constitution, maybe not by heart, but you know it very well. Do you know Art? 197 constitutions? Probably not. You used it, you waved a constitution, so I want to show you such a beautiful copy of the Polish Constitution. I'm gonna read you this article because I understand that when I asked you if you knew this article, you didn't answer because you didn't know the article. 197. [[But how was I supposed to...]] The formation of the Constitutional Tribunal and the procedure for proceedings before the Court shall be governed by the law. Period. I've read it so you'll get to know this article because you don't know this article. You ask so many questions, you just don't know the constitution. And now I'd like to ask who said it, when and why: 'It's not that we just have a government.' Is that what the Law and Justice policy said? And then we have local governments and Maybe it'll be too brave. We have a friendly Constitutional Court. We have friendly media, too. Who said that when and why? [[Niesiołowski probably.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u253	Thank you, Mr. Marshal, for the attention you give to my statements, but this is not the subject of work... [[Bravo! Bravo!]] [[Applause]] It is not an obligation or even, I think, the right to inform the High House that something Jan Rulewski once said. My delegation, my mandate, is limited to the presentation of a report from the committee's meeting on a minority proposal. [[Voice from the room: That's right.]] But I'll make an exception for you, and I'll give you an answer. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[But thank you for that answer, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u254	Thank you very much. Thank you, sir... [[And for that, thank you.]] Thank you, Senator rapporteur. You ask Senator Warzocha a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would never go back to what Senator Jan Rulewski once said, but I would like to go back to what Senator Jan Rulewski remembers. I will refer to the issue of expertise and legal opinions which were probably issued in May this year when the parliamentary majority elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And so I'd like to ask you something. If there was an expert opinion at the time, the legal opinion of our Legal Office... If Senator Rulewski does not have enough memory, please consult your fellow senators of the past, the 8th term, and remind us what the proposals of our lawyers, our legislators, were. That's the first question. And the second question is: were they taken into account by you in the vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u256	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think you're aware that we're already working with the last remaining force... [[Where? How? Janek, we're just getting started.]] ...on the reports on the bill passed by the Sejm at last night's meeting. [[Voice from the room: What does this have to do with this bill?]] [[Everything has a connection.]] [[Voice from the room: You're out of the question.]] My knowledge, I think, is as accurate as it gets, only this period. The other cases, I say again, exceed the mandate given to me by the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u258	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome. Is that the question to which of the senators of the rapporteurs?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u259	Mrs. Marshal, to see Professor Sewerinski. Professor, I will return briefly to the opinions that have been attached and which you have taken note of or analysed during the committee meeting. KRS, the National Judicial Council wrote in its opinion, referring, of course, to the authors... I don't know if this was the subject of the committee, but I don't see the authors, so I'm going with the professor, maybe the professor could develop it. The authors of the bill state in the explanatory memorandum that this change will have a positive social and economic impact. In turn the KRS writes that it does not understand this connection What are the positive social and economic impacts? Would you mind referring to that, Professor? It's about that opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u260	No, I can't relate because I don't understand that opinion. [[They don't understand either, but it's you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u261	Good. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr President has already answered the question. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u262	May I? Professor, let me clarify again. This sentence was spoken not by the opinion-makers, but by the authors of the law, is in the explanatory memorandum. The opinionaries wanted to understand that sentence. I understand that the professor doesn't understand that sentence either, and that's an answer enough for me. [[It's in the explanatory note.]] [[That's where we agree.]] (This is where we agree. Thank you, Professor.)
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u263	Mr. Senator, you're pulling two or three words out of the context of the entire justification. I have to tell you honestly that I don't know what this is about. If he had heard further parts of this opinion, perhaps I would have known what this was all about and what these expectations were based on. As I said, I do not view any opinions as binding and non-negotiable. Everyone has the right to assess this opinion as it considers appropriate. I've said it a few times, and I don't think there's any point in saying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. Would any of you like to ask the Senators of the rapporteurs a question? [[Senator Dowhan.]] Senator Dowhan, please. [[Voices from the hall: Catering.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u265	It's gonna be, it's gonna be, it's gonna be, it's Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question. I think it's pretty important. The draft of this law included 14 days of vacathio legis. Right now... [[30 days.]] 30 days. He's not here right now. The fundamental question: why? [[Voice from the room: To whom question?]] The Senator of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u266	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. That's your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u267	Mr. Senator, I don't know all the historical reasons why this bill went through different fates in the Seym, and that's why I'm not going to answer you why. I can repeat what I said about vacathio legis at the committee meeting, namely I am not surprised or find it unusual that the law does not have vacathio legis. From the history of Polish parliamentarianism, and even the latest, such cases are known. We know such cases from the past and we recognise that the applicants, the drafters of this law, have decided that this will be the best solution for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Are you Marshal Borusewicz?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u269	Yes, I want to ask you a question because I heard something from President Sewerinski that I did not expect to hear. The Legal Office and the Legal Office's opinions are very important to us. This Legislative Office works very well and its opinions are independent, very often critical. The Legal Office is... should be the apple of the Senate's head, and I hope that... I don't remember the situation where the assessment of the opinion that we disagree with was formulated in such a way that the person who prepared this opinion would have some consequences... I hope you're... Will Senator Sewerinski, who is mostly government-owned, point out whether your opinion on what the legislator has done will affect her future functioning in the Senate? [[I don't understand that question.]] [[That's the thesis question.]] [[That's the thesis question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u270	Is that a question, Mr. Marshal? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Yeah, that's the question.]] [[We don't understand that question. That's an outrageous question.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, I hope you'll see to it.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Order, please! Order, please! Mr. Chairman, please. [[I'm so sorry, but I'm so excited. Insinuation...]] I'm asking you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u271	Mr. Marshal, I think you were directing this to me, so I'll answer you. I judge this opinion critically and expressed it in the sitting. This is not the first time that senators disagree with the whole or part of the opinions expressed by the Legislative Office. This does not mean undermining the need for a Legislative Office or opinions created there. And the insinuation Unfortunately, I have to use that word. It's in your statement that it could have negative consequences for the author of the opinion... Well, that's a really far-reaching statement. I believe that you should withdraw from this statement. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is outrageous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u272	Is Senator Rooster here to ask you a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm directing the question to Senator Pociej. I don't know if she's... [[Yes, you're the senator.]] I'm waiting for him to come in... First question, Senator, which I would like to address to you: why did you start the civil platform and PSL in June? Why didn't you defend the Court with such great determination, but you all said out loud: we have the majority, we decide everything? The second question, Senator rapporteur, is that you were the only one who abstained during the vote. What were the reasons for your decision that in June you abstained from voting on a law enforced? Without taking the comments of any legislative office, no arguments, you said: we have a majority, therefore we are voting. I wouldn't ask anyone else that question, and I wouldn't ask you because you held back. We know how you performed, you said the procedure was not followed, opinions are not taken into account. At that time there were also very critical opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u274	You're welcome, Senator, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Of course, it would be easiest to say that this goes beyond our debate today, but I will answer that question. I abstained for the same reason I asked you today in my speech not to make such a decision. At the time, I thought it was a mistake, and I listened to the voices of NGOs, the voice of the legislator. That's why I did what I did, not what I did. Today I'm going to turn this question around, with one little attention and digression. Well, then, Mr. Senator, it was a matter of choosing two judges over what really had to be done. Today we are not just talking about two judges, we are talking about 3 because there is a decision of the Court. But what's more, we're talking about such statutory records... That rule that I questioned at the time was a transitional provision, he was a recipe. only for the purpose of that decision and it has expired. Now we are talking about much more serious changes, such as those that are already affecting not only the issue of personal composition, because we have already discussed this several times, but in general the location of the Constitutional Tribunal and the balance of the three authorities. That's why I think if that decision was wrong... The way to make this right was what Mr. President Duda was doing for a while. He waited for it to be very easy to fix. He didn't swear five judges, he didn't swear anybody. He could have waited one day longer for the decision of the Constitutional Court and sworn on 3 judges and then 2 elected by this Parliament. That would be a very simple road. Then you could change all that we're changing. So here's my answer: if that was a swing of the paper, then it came back with baseball. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: But still...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u276	And the first question. Yes? [[Voice from the room: Okay...]] Okay, okay. Thank you very much. You're still Senator Wind. That's the last question...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u277	I wasn't going to ask you a question, but in the light of the highly inappropriate statement made by Marshal Borusewicz. I don't want to use the word "offensive." I'd like to ask two questions to Senator Rulewski. I would like to ask Senator Rulewski if he remembers, at the previous meeting of the Joint Committee on the Constitutional Tribunal, how he took over from the legislator a substantive amendment with a large load of political solutions. And question two. Do you remember, Senator, that I made my reservations to the minutes at the time, asking for the consequences of such a legislative behaviour? Please answer me. [[Voice from the room: But it's not about this bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u278	You're welcome, Senator. Will you answer that question? [[Voice from the room: This is not a question about the bill.]] [[The voice from the hall: Well, the legislator... this is political...]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u279	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, we are in the process of proceeding a point concerning the law, which in the Seym was written in print no. 122. Your questions are about history, and I'm sorry, but my memory doesn't go back so far as to answer you precisely enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u280	Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u281	Then I have another question for Senator Rulewski. Did today's opinion from the Senate's legal office go beyond the scope of such opinions adopted by the Rules of Procedure and customarily by our House, in a similar way to what happened a month ago at the joint committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u282	The question is very precise and I think I'll satisfy you with the precision of your answer. The opinion of the Legislative Office, signed by your director, was a synthesis of the positions of the institutions of law in Poland, such as the National Judicial Council, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Court, and as stressed at this meeting and the opinion of your patron, these opinions were unanimous. And it would be insulting on my part, though I'm known sometimes for perverseness. If I hadn't taken that into account, and especially if I hadn't taken that into account by the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u283	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to ask a question? Senator Borowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u284	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, after asking Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, it got a little unpleasant... But I have to say that the question of Senator Wind, which reminds me of the incident with the legislator on the occasion of the previous act, shows that there were tendencies to burden the legislators... [[Mr. Senator, do you want to ask a question?]] Let me ask you a question, yes. ...Blame, responsibility for the opinions they give. Although later it turned out that the Constitutional Tribunal questioned exactly what the legislator had written about. And my question is to Senator Sewerinski, who also stated in his statement that your legislator had gone beyond the legal framework, including by saying that the law is breaking the constitution. That's exactly what you said about breaking the constitution. Well, I've reviewed that opinion right now, I don't know, maybe careless. I didn't see that word. If the senator could point them out to me, I'd be satisfied, even though I'm worried.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u285	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u286	Mr. Senator, actually, I've seen through it, too. There are no words breaking the constitution, but there are equivalent terms. I would not like to consider the details of this opinion now. I said that I judged it critically in the sense that I disagree with the opinions expressed there, which are based on some of the statements of doctrine and also do not take into account any other reasoning, other arguments. Best evidence: there is a passage in which it is said that the fact that Parliament, and specifically the Sejm, will decide on the surrender of a judge of the Court of Justice, is a violation of the independence of such a judge, and it does not matter, comes from the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And for me, this is fundamental, because it means that the matter is in the hands, as I said during our debate, of the assembly of judges. They will decide whether they will submit to Parliament's judgment or not. This is an opinion contrary to what was expressed in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. That's why I think it's a one-sided opinion. I expected it to contain arguments for and against. It is possible to formulate an opposing argument, as I have formulated it. I could expect both opinions to be expressed. In this sense, I'm critical of it. I have the right, like everyone else, to critically assess all the opinions that have been presented, and so they have also been evaluated by other senators. However, I would not like to make this one opinion the subject of the debate, because there were more, and I also appreciate, as I said, the work of the Legislative Office. Your legislator did it in a hurry, she didn't have much time. Perhaps if there was more time, this opinion would be fuller.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u287	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u288	I'm sorry, but using the rules of procedure, I'd like to speak because Senator Borowski mentioned my name in a context not necessarily positive. That is why I would like the senator to be able to clarify what he meant, because the senator used such a wording, that in the previous sitting there was a tendency to shift responsibility to the legislator, while for all those who were there or in some other way got acquainted with the transcript of this meeting, it was clear that the legislator had made proposals for substantive amendments with a large political load, and that Senator Rulewski had taken them over. To accuse me or others that these are tendencies to pass responsibility on to a legislator is far from appropriate. Therefore, I would very much ask the senator to either withdraw from these corrections, or to clarify them in a manner consistent with the facts that have taken place.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u289	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich, please. [[But I would ask Senator Borowski to respond.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, High...]] [[It's a rule-of-law duty!]] Excuse me. [[You're welcome.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Senator Borowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u290	I'm not imposing. That is, simply, Mr. Senator, then you criticized the legislator, stating that he is going beyond his responsibilities and that his opinions are political. It must be said that it sounded wrong in that situation, especially since you suggested that it be recorded somewhere else. In short, there was a risk that this would continue. That's what I was afraid of. If that's not the case, I'm very happy. Because you mentioned it today, I referred to it. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u291	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u292	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was at a meeting of the Legislative Commission, a joint committee, of course not being a member of the committee. It was very interesting. But in this conversation, I would ask the rapporteur, Mr Pociej... [[Senator's voice.]] Senator. I'm sorry. I would ask Senator Pociej to answer my question as to whether the legislator's opinion was going beyond the legal framework of the law, beyond the legal scope of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u293	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u294	Did she go beyond the legal framework? I understand it's the rules. [[Yeah, yeah, I'm sorry.]] Mr Senator, in this House, although you are a very experienced parliamentarians, you have been recently. I'm only a second term, too. I'm not one of the senators. Anyway, for the whole four years. And I can say that with full responsibility, because I sat down, I had the privilege of sitting with Senator Sewerinski on the same committee. At least the custom was as it was at the meeting of the committee referred to at the moment, i.e. Not today, just a week or two ago. Well, this custom, which I find very good and which was never questioned by anyone I'm sure it's because he agreed on most of the... Well, this was the custom, at least in this committee, that the applicant's representative or the government party first took the floor, and then always Yes, the legislator, who generally assessed the submission, has always said what is good about it, what is bad, and every time he makes legislative proposals. And it was on the principle that whoever wanted to and then most of the time they were Members... of the opposition senators... It is contagious to use the word "men." The opposition senators were most often directly taking over the proposed amendment. There was a formula: I take over. That's why it was my surprise that Senator Wind, first of all, intervened then, and second of all, he said it went beyond the rules. I'm not gonna argue here because I didn't check it out. but also outside the customary framework in force in this committee. Well, it's always been exactly the same for four years. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u295	Thank you very much. You're asking the senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u296	Mr. Marshal, I am, however, in the matter of my right to rule, because once again my person has been summoned. Well, Senator rapporteur, I would like to remind you that one of the amendments that I quote from memory, and there were more, was, for example. the number of judges. The amendment concerned the number of judges! To what extent did she examine the compatibility with the Constitution and other laws when it concerned the number of judges? After all, this is a typical political solution. There were more of these amendments, and I say that my reservations were completely justified. Those of you senators who have known me in this House for ten years know that I am paying due attention to calling these important issues. Which is why I would ask for a correction. [[Excuse me, could I...?]] [[This isn't a discussion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u297	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u298	I'd like to answer that plea. First of all, I don't know why Mr. Senator takes my statement as a charge. I said my assessment of the incident and recalled my historical memory. And the strange thing was that neither President Paszkowski, for 3 or 4 hours, nor Senator Seweryński, but you who came to this committee meeting and after 5 minutes formulated this charge.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u299	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u300	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, Mr. Marshal, I would like to formulate a question and address it to Senator Sewerinski. Professor, if you don't mind... You have been polite in your last statement to suggest that you disagree with the position of the Senate Legislative Office, because this position is based only on part of the doctrine, this is a one-sided position. And you said, in conclusion, that perhaps this position was due to the fact that your legislator had insufficient time to prepare this opinion fully, holistically. If you really think so, then my question is: why, despite many suggestions and requests from my fellow senators, you were not polite, you and ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice, do you agree that we should postpone the procession over this very important, fundamental, political act for a little later, perhaps after Christmas? My colleague, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, spoke about Polish tradition, about Christmas reflection. Perhaps this would also be a necessary time for your legislator to actually... [[This is not a discussion, Mr. Marshal.]] ...to prepare such an opinion as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u301	Thank you very much. Does the professor want to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u302	Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the gym: Christmas Eve...]] ...I have voted three times to request a recess and adjournment of our deliberations. I follow the committee's resolutions. It's not up to me to say we'll be sitting in two weeks or two months. The committee's resolution by a majority of votes was three times this way: we are continuing the deliberations on the bill. As far as my assessment is concerned, I can tell you that I can judge... Every senator has to do it himself, assess... [[Voice from the room: On your own account...]] ...on his own account, whether this opinion is enough or not and whether it is convincing or not convincing. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u303	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u304	Professor, I'm very sorry to allow myself to keep asking questions, but... We can check it out in a transcript, but it was Mr. Senator who was polite to formulate just such words, not other words, and in such a way, not another way to build the reasons for this opinion of the Legislative Bureau. I'd like to ask. I'm sorry, I didn't attend the meeting because I'm not a member of either committee. As the senator, Mr. Chairman behaved... [[What's that? Some committee of inquiry?]] ...if it's not naturally a secret... [[It's the committee of inquiry.]] [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] Was he for proceding or against proceding this bill? Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u305	You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u306	It's not a secret. I voted in favour of us continuing to proceed. For me, the information I had about this bill, and the opinions that were said, were sufficient material to speak for or against this law. I supported this bill in the committee's vote. The vote was public. Everyone saw me vote. And I will also vote for it in plenary as it will be put to the vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u307	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[There's no...]] [[There it is.]] [[There isn't.]] [[Voices from the room: There it is.]] [[There it is.]] I believe the Minister has left... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Minister, do you wish to speak? [[What do you mean, there's nothing like it.]] [[I don't know, if you'd like, yes, of course, but...]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u308	Because the minister came to the Senate so late, and I thank him... [[Congratulations!]] [[He works hard.]] ...I want to ask the Minister what is the government's position on this bill. [[There doesn't have to be a position. But he took them down. They already wanted to scream he wasn't here, and he's here.]] [[Voice from the hall: And it's also constitutional...]] [[And it was the constitutional minister who came. Bravo, Minister! Bravo!]] [[And there was no one here, not once, not once.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer Mr Borusewicz's question, I would like to say that while I am here as a representative of the government, I was not authorized to take an official position on this matter on behalf of the government. I can express my position on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, which is closely looking at this legislative process, which is connected with the ongoing work on this law. And I would like to express my satisfaction that you are working so well to resolve a conflict that has already grown to such a rank that it is worth speeding up. Especially in the pre-Christmas period Poles deserve not to take our further attention so that we can focus on matters that are really important for our countrymen, on the fact that many children in Poland have existential problems, and basically parents have them in relation to the maintenance of children. We also have a proposal. And I can say that on behalf of the government, because the government has already tried and adopted a concrete project, 500 PLN for every child in Poland... [[Not every day.]] ...everyone in the sense that... every first child that needs... [[Almost every one.]] ...and every next one, every next one... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'd like to thank you on behalf of the children.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me be clear: for every first thing she needs, because we're talking about these kids. And that was my introduction, I think, very clear and clear that... The government responds to the state of affairs that resulted from the GUS data during the Platform's rule regularly year after year, and lacked reaction, lacked reflection, lacked thought that there were children in Poland, which unfortunately... [[They're starving.]] ...have a problem, most generally, with everyday existence. [[Get to the point.]] Therefore, the government would like to assure you that we see these problems, these real problems that are facing the Polish family, and we have already prepared a set of projects, proposals for laws that will improve this situation. I would like to add that as Minister of Justice, I have a contribution to the concern for the Polish family, for children, because my resort, at the request of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, has prepared a bill that eliminates another pathology, this time the pathology in which unfortunately the Polish state participated. On the one hand, the state was blind to this often objectively independent poverty in many Polish families, and on the other hand it was ruthless through judgments which took children from loving families, which was often described by Polish media and rightly shocked Polish families. It's gonna end. And that's good news for all of you before Christmas. I came here with good news on an important matter. [[Applause]] [[It's a few hours early because Santa's not coming till tomorrow.]] Families won't be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Santa's not coming till tomorrow.]] This is a bill, Mr. Senator... Knowing your resume, Mr. Senator Rulewski, a beautiful resume, a sensitivity to social matters... I have to say, that's the answer. [[That's not what we're talking about.]] This bill has already been sent to the Sejm and you will have a chance to lean over it. I trust that, regardless of political differences, you will support this very good law of the government of Beata Szydło, Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska, right hand... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He'll back it all up.]] And this is good news for Christmas, good news for all of you. [[Unless, of course, first...]] [[And what does this have to do with the Court Act?]] Such a relationship that ends the discussion about things that are not necessarily in the foreground for Polish families, for all those who will sit at the Christmas table tomorrow... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal, get to the point.]] ...we have a chance to show that together, regardless of political divisions, we solve these issues that are really important. And that's what's important. [[Applause]] [[Of course, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u310	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, additional questions, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u311	Minister, I thought you came here as Minister of Justice... [[Voice from the room: No...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and you will take care of a bill that concerns the scope of your competence... [[...social services.]] ...and you came here as Santa Claus with a bag of gifts. Thank you so much for these gifts. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u312	Mr. Marshal, this is a compliment to Mrs. Beata Szydło's government, since you're comparing me to Santa Claus, really. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] It is a recognition that we really think of those who need it. Thank you very much. [[It's obvious.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u313	Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u314	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Marshal Borusewicz beat me to it. Thank you for coming in two and a half hours early today. That's good news. You should be happy about that too. [[Christmas Eve is also Santa Claus, Christmas...]] ...but I'd rather we debate... [[Voice from the room:...because we're wasting time.]] Yes. ...at the Court, because all day we're in the Senate... I'm sure the Minister is familiar with the letter. European Commission I just saw him in the media. It's addressed to you and the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Would you mind commenting on it? The Commission is asking not to adopt a resolution on the Constitutional Court. [[Voice from the Chamber: Just enough that the Commission...]] [[What does the Union care? This is an internal matter of Poland.]] [[Voice from the room: But we are in the Union.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u315	The question has been asked, the Minister answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u316	Dear Senator, ladies and gentlemen, this is the letter I will answer when I get acquainted with it. However, I can express such a general opinion, asked on the way, on the run, by one journalist, such an opinion I have already expressed. There are two problems here. One is Poland's problem as a sovereign country, which is a member of a community of united states within the European Union, but is still a sovereign state, which itself, in democratic procedures, determines the shape of its own constitutional bodies. And I don't see any reason for any outside body to... [[Voice from the hall: This is Poland.]] ...in a sovereign way to interfere and impose upon us solutions that are in his way, consistent with the sensitivity of other countries or other bodies, because it could interfere with our sense of national pride and sovereignty, and that is what we are bound as Polish parliamentarians. And let's keep that in mind. [[Applause]] So let us protect our dignity and our sovereignty, because it is also our duty. However, I stress that this is my general reflection, which does not refer to the details of this letter. I'll talk to him. With Minister Waszczykowski, I'm sure. When I have the opportunity to read it, because now only some fragments have appeared somewhere in the media. There is a second aspect of this matter, which also involves a certain action, which I note sadly, by some representatives of the Polish opposition, who slightly forget about the issue of the image of our country outside and about the fact that we should do things at home and not somewhere outside our borders. [[But we don't.]] [[Exactly.]] And we should not be in conflict if we can come to an agreement ourselves and resolve it in the democratic debate. The fact that we have mature democracy is best borne out by these manifestations that have taken place, and by, and against. This is a proof of democracy. Nobody sent platoons to the police, no one shot... [[Tanks.]] ...as it was in Silesia a few weeks ago, even in previous governments... It was about the miners, right, who were protesting the destruction of the mines. [[Voice from the hall: We didn't shoot the miners.]] Remember those paintings, the media scenes? Well, I also have such a reflection that then a representative of the European Commission did not respond, and perhaps there were reasons for that, and if he were guided by sensitivity to human rights... Once again, I will tell you how important it is for us to solve these problems, which are the result of an acute political dispute, which is also the essence of democracy here, at home, in our own backyard. And I think it will be. I'd like to point out, my dears and gentlemen. This is, of course, my point of view, which you probably don't share. I believe that democracy gives the right and mandate to those who, in democratic elections, get a parliamentary majority to make changes that allow them to implement their programme effectively... [[But within reason.]] ...and the electoral commitment. And that's exactly what we're doing. My assessment of what we had the opportunity to observe was that the spring of the whole situation we were in was the events of the Sejm of June this year... [[It's an old song.]] ...when Mr Kropiwnicki, rapporteur, without even covering his intentions, said that the Platform was preparing changes to the bill in order to prevent the Constitutional Tribunal from going to law and justice. These words I will not quote them exactly, I will not quote them, but I give them their meaning after President Bronisław Komorowski lost in the presidential election and when the polls clearly indicated that Law and Justice would prevail in the elections. It was clear then that the mechanism of power could effectively block possible changes announced by the Law and Justice in only one way By guaranteeing itself a majority, one can say a monopoly, in the Constitutional Court, taking over this Constitutional Court as a very important body, having great power, despite the frequent lack of public awareness in this area. A certain value, I would even say, of this dispute, which is going on in front of our eyes, although sometimes there are worse opinions and unnecessary words, is that the awareness of Poles reaches the knowledge of how much power the Constitutional Tribunal has. It is knowledge that it is often a power more powerful than the common power, with all due respect, of the State of the House and of this first Chamber, the lower, i.e. the Polish Sejm, and even the power shared with the President, because any act of joint decision of these authorities can be broken by the sentence of a few judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. And certainly debatable was the question of choice and mechanism indicating the choice of judges adopted in the previous parliamentary term. And that was the source, that was the cause. You know that very well. The point was, then, that someone can count, knows a little bit about math and can count to fifteen judges, I emphasize, 14 out of 15 judges came from the choice of the majority of the Civic Platform. Is this democracy? Would that be pluralism, which is an immanent feature inscribed in the essence of democracy? Well, you could ask serious questions about that, couldn't you? And these questions were naturally raised, especially since these already undiscovered intentions from Mr Kropiwnicki, the rapporteur on behalf of the Civic Platform, could not close our eyes on what is really going on, what is going on, and that this intention serves something. Why? We believe that in order to block the result, the verdict of democratic elections, and to cause democracy to excite the elections, the Poles to elect the majority to the Sejm and the majority to the Senate, they chose the President and then it will be as it was before, because there is a Court and there is a majority in the Court that can block everything. Yeah, maybe, because he's got that kind of power, that kind of power. But if you consider that there is such a huge over-representation of one political environment in this one body, is that a democratic one? Is this related to a democratic mandate? I don't think so. [[Applause]] And this honesty of Mr Kropiwnicki's statement can be said to have removed the cataract of intentions which were at the root of the majority at that time, and naturally led us to reverse the course of events so that this democratic mandate, so that the democratic institutions, so that the elections which are a celebration of democracy, still make sense, not only in terms of changing people who occupy one or another building and one or another office, but in such a way that the legislative process makes sense, because it can lead to a meaningful change and will not be blocked by dominant views and political sympathies of people elected on a political path to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u317	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Borusewicz, once again, please. [[In fact, after the first part of the Minister's statement, I would like to say that I have no further questions.]] (I'm sorry, I didn't hear you.) [[After the first part of the Minister's speech, I would like to say that I have no further questions. Thank you very much.]] [[Voice from the room: Good for you.]] Thank you. Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u318	Minister, you are happy to talk about what reaches the consciousness of Poles. And I am interested in what reaches the awareness of the Minister of Justice, not from the opinion of politicians or from the opinion of the opposition, but from the opinions that lawyers, authorities, experts have issued, and all of these experts who have arrived here have negatively assessed the bill. [[The voice from the room: Kropiwnicki had expertise...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u319	Mr Senator, of course you can discuss opinions and how much the High House has listened to opinions now or in past debates. I, too, have been a parliamentarian, and many times, and I remember such situations, regardless of which majority ruled, whether most of the Platform or most of the SLD, I remember the times of Mr. Marshal Borowski. . and not necessarily opinions, and most experts, were taken as a reference for decisions that later took place. So the final opinion is one of the consciences and decisions of each of you. You're the conscience and the representative... [[applause]] ...the nation and you have this title and great responsibility, you carry it to make these decisions. Therefore, these opinions, which are now at your disposal, are also subject to assessment. And there is no doubt that some of the opinion-taking bodies, in any case uncooperatively, because if the senator refers, for example, to various opinions adopted by the board of departments of individual universities... I've had the opportunity to watch it closer, because I'm getting these opinions, too, as a minister. And the votes at a time when decisions are made are also divided. Yes, most of them are in favour, although not everywhere. For example, in Łódź such a resolution did not pass, as far as I know. However, I do know that at times 20 and 30 prominent professors, experts of the law, express or express a different opinion and defend this position which I now represent as a government, and recognize that these changes are justified and have a strong legal basis. So it's not that opinions are homogeneous, that there are no other opinions. These debates at Polish universities at a time when these resolutions are being taken... There was also such a debate at the University of Warsaw. And the various statements of experts and prominent professors show that the votes are divided. They, I agree, maybe they don't decompose evenly, it's true, and yet they're divided. There are different opinions. I, too, took note of the views of the Ministry of Justice on the whole process of change as regards the Constitutional Tribunal as regards the Constitutional Tribunal Act, and these opinions were not uniform either. Nor can we here, if I am to be honest, ignore such reflection that some legal environments associated with the law enforcement process do not necessarily impartially observe and participate in this dispute. I would like to remind you that... Well, the best example of this is the behaviour of some judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who, contrary to the principle of not even giving an opinion on the legal acts which are the subject of the work of the Polish Parliament, and despite the consequences that have been shown in this case, have violated the principle relating to the law which concerns them themselves. [[Where is it?]] They are thus very seriously exposed to the charge of lack of impartiality and the allegation that they are judges in their own case. The fact that these allegations are not unfounded is best demonstrated by the fact that they disfellowshipped themselves, justifying that they were involved in the drafting of a bill on which they later came to settle. If they disfellowshipped themselves and the Court's entire composition shared the merits of this exclusion, it means that they also expressed their conviction that these allegations and doubts were not taken from the ceiling, but had very strong grounds. [[Is that bad?]] [[It's an expression of a legal culture.]] And this is... Culture is not taken into account when it comes to objectivity and impartiality of the judicial authority. First of all, the court must have the virtue of impartiality and objectivity, so as not to raise doubts as to the outcome. I'm gonna skip the line... You are probably familiar with my criticisms regarding the behaviour of the President of the Court, his numerous statements, which took place before the Court made its statement in the form of a judgment before a hearing before the Court. Mr. President said that, without waiting for this moment, he would go to the media and, in fact, give sentences as judge and president of the Court. Is that impartial? Well, none of you will say it here, won't stand up and say, "Yes, this is an impartial judge." This is an impartial chairman. This is the man who guarantees objectivity. Because I have to tell you... [[This is an impartial court.]] Because I have to tell you that I have had the opportunity to talk to the ministers of justice of other countries of the European Union who actually asked me about this context. And when I told them stories related to the rather unusual behaviour of President Rzepliński, at that moment the discussion was over and the doubts were resolved. So in short, the standards that apply to certain legal environments that critically respond to these changes are, you might say, specific standards. And we cannot hide the fact that, for example, the National Council of the Court of Justice is very interested in ensuring that the Constitutional Tribunal can effectively block our plans for the reform of the Polish justice system. The National Judicial Council does not hide the fact that it has such views on our demands for changes in the justice system. So it is not that we are dealing here with impartial, undisclosed interests of legal environments. Usually behind these opinions are some personal, subjective interests and not necessarily impartial looks.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u320	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u321	Today we have avoided too much emotion and excessive politicisation of our discussion, and this is probably a really good effect of the atmosphere that prevailed both at the meeting of the Legislative Commission and here, in plenary. The exception is two speeches, your deputy's speech and your speech. [[Applause]] Of course, I am aware that, as a politician, you have every right to speak politically. But I would like at least for a second to go back to that question that was asked earlier and ask for a substantive, not a political statement. I'm asking you to. Namely, in this letter, which came from the European Commission, there is a specific question and I would like to know how you intend to answer this question. It is actually a request for you and Minister Waszczykowski to inform Commissioner Timmermans about the current constitutional situation in Poland, including I translate live the steps you intend to take with regard to the above-mentioned findings, decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal and recent amendments to the law in this area. Earlier, Commissioner Timmermans mentions the need to respect the principles of the rule of law and the integrity, stability and proper functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland. I would like to ask you, Minister, for a substantive and not a political answer to this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u322	Dear Marshal, this is really not about. I ask you to cut back on these kinds of speeches and questions. I really don't know what that document is. I didn't read it. Is there an official speech to the Ministry or to the Senate Marshal on this matter? Now we're gonna collect rumors from all over Europe? Shame, Senator, that's how you speak. [[Poland is a sovereign country.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u323	Minister, do you want to...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u324	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! Excuse me, but the professionalism I always value in Senator Klich's speeches makes me answer you equally professionally. I cannot be inconsistent with the declaration I made at the outset. In order to comment on this kind of letter, I need to read it, not the passage that you wish to quote here, and which may not give the whole context of the questions that the Commissioner has asked me. The answer, since this letter is addressed to me and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, requires my meeting with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and a conversation. This is a serious, professional approach to this situation that is taking place. But I maintain all these statements or reflections of a general nature, which I first expressed in the context of the first question related to this letter. I don't want to say it again. These statements are up to date.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u325	Thank you very much. Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u326	Minister, we have been discussing and quoting Professor Safjan's statements for a long time. I'm not a lawyer, I'm an engineer by education. Professor Safjan gets away with it, as I read it, too much authority. I think you have at least a little respect for your professor, who is a judge at the Court of Justice. Professor Safjan said in one of the interviews that he would have asked to inform the public that the participation of the President of the European Court of Justice in the work on changes is the norm. So this is something that I would just like to pass on to the Minister. If the Minister, as I understand it, thinks otherwise, I would ask for a brief comment. That's one thing. I'm almost done, Minister. And since we're having a holiday, I'd like to take a little break from current political events right now. Because the Minister brought great news. That you will be implementing the programme, especially for children. Thank you very much. About your declaration. That's very good, because this problem exists. It's a good thing you're taking it. And I would like to say this by breaking away: I am neither a historian nor a lawyer, but by reading Plato's statements, who was not a democracy lover and said that even the most beautiful laws established in the country, and concerning its community, should be verified by wise men, the wisest people in the country. At the meeting tonight... And Plato concludes his statement, Minister, so: those who have no shame, and those who do not respect the law. Sorry, I have to quote They should be treated as lousy sheep in the country. I do not expect a comment, but I would like the Minister to take to heart the words of Plato during this period of Christmas, which encourages respect for the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Why didn't they say that on June 10th? What's it for?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u327	Senator, first of all, we're in the middle of a question, second of all, everyone has a minute to ask a question. [[This was about June 10th?]] Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u328	Minister, all the opinions that have been presented have been devastating. They clearly claimed that the law is generally non-constitutional and in many points. I myself am only a doctor of constitutional law, but I participate in many conferences and constitutionalist meetings. I haven't heard, and I don't know. And I think all of us would like to know. What constitutional authorities gave a positive opinion, so they didn't agree with the arguments, you know, all of them... I'm not talking about universities. I am talking about the first president, about the National Council of Courts, about the Helsinki Foundation, about the Attorney General and about many other organizations, above all about legal corporations such as the Supreme Council of Lawyers, the National Council of Legal Counsels, etc., etc. Name at least two constitutionalists who have prepared the opinion you are talking about and claim to be constitutional. I'm very interested in that. Two names.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u329	Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to the first question that the senator has asked, referring to Professor Safjan's statement. There's a little nuance, but sometimes things crash into nuances. The Court of Justice is uneven. Not every court does the same thing. The scope of the cognition of the various courts varies. None of us question that. The Polish Supreme Court also participates in the opinion of the laws concerning its system, because possible ruling in the future does not conflict with the issue of impartiality and objectivity of that court, because it does not decide later on the constitutionality of those laws. And that is the specificity and uniqueness of the location of constitutional courts, that they are to determine the compatibility of lower-rank laws with higher-ranking laws. In this sense, in a number of countries, including Poland, it is a principle that these courts do not participate in the legislative process in order to ensure that judges are comfortable and impartial in resolving cases. This is not the case if people who had previously had the mandate of a Member or a Senator have been brought to court, but have generally excluded themselves from the ruling in respect of acts of statutory or lower rank in which they participated, so that there is no doubt about the subjective attitude to a case with which they may have had any emotional connection, to which they could make their own amendment, to express an opinion, to show some determination as to the direction of interpretation. And this is a very clear and clear situation. In short, this example, which you have referred to, in this sense, is not adequate, similar, as regards the situation of a specific judiciary, which is constitutional justice. That's one thing. Secondly, as regards the statements made by the professors of constitutional law relating to the objections raised by the various grammars, I will say yes. Well, I didn't read the opinion with other opinions... It is not that I read opinions with opinions, but I read opinions indicating the correctness or correctness of certain solutions which have been expressed in the proposals put forward by the Law and Justice, e.g. Professor Banaszak's opinion, if I remember his name correctly and if I don't... [[This isn't about that...]] If it doesn't concern... But it concerns certain institutional arrangements, which have also been expressed in this law. In a word, not only did I read those opinions, but I also talked... I'm not entitled, I'm not entitled, I'm not authorized by these people to invoke them, but... I've spoken to those people who are experienced constitutionalists and who have expressed that view. In a word, that's what it looks like, in this case, that's my answer. I didn't read a polemic like that... Because the essence of this kind of opinion is usually polemicism with other opinions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u330	Thank you. Mr. Senator Rulewski. [[But there's not even any polemics.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u331	Minister, a few weeks ago, you spoke here with an equal deal about the amendment of the previous law. This law was challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal. Worse: contrary to your predictions, the whole nation did not support this, on the contrary, went out into the street. It's a good thing he came out, it's a bad thing to ask for the law. Today we're talking about another act. You're proving your point. But can you convey your prediction, like the nation, and the one about the colors of white and red, and the one about the colors of white and red with the European certificate, and react to the news of this night shift, about the Christmas Eve shift? That's the first question. Second question. It is well known that the boards of several law-educating universities have taken a negative stance on this proposal. What gift do you have for students who learn that their professors, their masters, have a negative attitude towards you and not just your actions? And finally, the third question. Would you agree with my claim that you should no longer be asked questions because you also have family responsibilities and must go home? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u332	I'm a servant of the state, ladies and gentlemen, so if I have to, I can stand here and answer by morning. However, I always mean your hard work as well. This particular time, your family... I would like to wish you that you could be among your loved ones as soon as possible, because probably everyone is thinking about it now, every Pole. Tradition is close to us, this special family time is very, very important to us. But since the question has been asked, Mr. Senator, I'll answer it. First of all, about this manifestation of the entire nation, this opposition, as you interpreted it... I don't see it that way. I had the opportunity to observe this manifestation of opposition in Warsaw, but I also had the opportunity to observe, to participate in the manifestation of opposition to not granting the concession of Television Trwam. I saw hundreds of thousands of people on the streets of Warsaw. If you compare the size of these manifestations... [[applause]] ... it turns out it's a long way from a big protest... Really much, much work before the organizers, so that they could show the determination that I had the opportunity to observe and what Warsaw saw. It is also possible to refer to official police data, the services that were then subordinate to the Civic Platform, which, in comparison with the last data, are very unambiguously overwhelming. That's one thing. Secondly, with regard to the opinions of the faculty councils, I would not like to repeat myself. As I said, the debates at the time of these resolutions were extremely interesting. These were often colourful discussions about the political dimension, but also interesting considerations of a legal nature. There were arguments, also from prominent law professors, members of these excellent universities who advocated and opposed these resolutions. Please check... I have this information as a minister of justice because I'm the one with the resolutions. Even if polemics and discussions at the Faculty of Law of the University of Warsaw... most of them were in favour, it is true. As far as proportions are concerned, I don't deny it. But that doesn't mean it was unanimous. I don't know if you know... There are different structures for the voting of constitutional courts. I'm sure the senator will agree with me. For example, the German Constitutional Tribunal not only knows the principle of 2/3 voting, but even the principle of unanimous voting as a condition for a decision. It's about these three teams that deal with constitutional complaints. In short, it is not as I hear sometimes in the debate that the introduction of a qualified majority by law and justice 2/3 is some new invention, unknown to Europe. Just look at our Western neighbour's example of tradition and see that there are different majoritys, depending on the decisions. This is not a novel that introduces the law and justice project. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate will, of course, continue. We must bear this in mind when we are talking about respect for the law, that it is not as we hear from the media in this case, that the Court, twice ruling, has stated that three judges elected in the previous term of office have been elected in a lawful manner. You know perfectly well, don't you? In particular, the doctor is well aware of this as a constitutionalist's lawyer. That the Constitutional Tribunal is not in a position to assess the process of a particular choice of judge. He can only speak This is the scope of its cognition, the scope of its competence in substance Only to the extent that the legal standard on which this choice was based was compatible with the Constitution or not. It is true that he held that in the case of three judges he was in agreement, but did not assess whether this choice was properly made on the basis of this standard or not. Meanwhile, the resolution adopted by the Sejm states that the standard was fine, but the selection process was incorrect and therefore ineffective. And this is no longer a matter of responsibility, an assessment of the Court. He doesn't even have the right to be examined by the Constitutional Tribunal. One can say, using a metaphor, that the Constitutional Tribunal by virtue of the Constitution must be blind and not see how it is chosen, because it cannot study it. In short, what I often hear from the politicians of the Civic Platform, that the Court has ruled and these 3 judges have been properly, according to the law chosen, is pure manipulation, manipulation in a pure form, the essence of manipulation. And the fact that some prominent professors, people who have been named, are also repeating this is merely a testimony of emotions, heated heads, emotions, which also do not miss people with great scientific achievements, because they also have their political views and sometimes have more hot, bloody, one can say, nature than many politicians sitting in our House, Dear State. In short, keep that in mind. [[Applause]] As far as the right is concerned, I know one thing, in the opinion of the Constitutional Tribunal, of course I have my own opinion on this subject, and I will not share it now, because this is not the time and place of the legal rules which were the basis for the selection of 3 judges were legal. But that's not true, that's not equivalent to the fact that these three judges were elected in accordance with that law. The Sejm had the right to adopt a resolution on the fact that this did not happen, and the Constitutional Tribunal, and even more so its President, has no right to verify it, because it is not his sphere of competence. If he's questioning it, he's breaking the law. If the law is to bind everyone, it is also to bind Professor Rzepliński, President of Rzepliński, all the more so that he is a professor. But does he set a good example or a bad example if this law violates it? [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: What about the Minister of Justice?]] This is probably a bad example, however, Dear State, because breaking the law and it is not necessarily a good example in the performance of the professor, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, is really, especially for law students, for his students. Right, Doctor? [[And Professor Zoll?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u333	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u334	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me ask you a question, Minister. You know I know you from your boyfriend, and everything's fine. That's better than my... [[Oh, no one's gonna beat you.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] No, I didn't want to bring it into this form, because I'm the kind of person who's done a few things in my life. Therefore, I will allow myself to have our private conversation in completely different arrangements. [[Voice from the room: On the train.]] You just said respect for the law. I like it when I hear it from the Minister of Justice, but what is the respect of the law in a situation where such a serious law, which enters into action by the Constitutional Tribunal, our supreme authorities, you as Minister of Justice or as a member of the government, allows you to work without any public consultation, at night, at 10 p.m., just before Christmas Eve and do It's so fast. I am very curious, what is the answer to the question: what is the rush? Of course, there will be a debate in a moment and I will tell you why, because I know why you are doing this, but tell me whether it is respect for the creation of the law and whether it is respect for the creation of the law to deny or not to acknowledge the opinion of the most outstanding Polish people of the law. [[Then what's the question?]] Don't interrupt me, Dear Friend, now I say please. [[One minute to question.]] That's all I'm saying. Why are we doing this so fast? Why am I, in my 70s, a prominent lawyer, because he is a teacher at the university, in any case, to listen to these interpretations of lawyers who may be different? I wonder why we're doing this so fast.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u335	Senator, let me remind you that you had a minute to ask a question. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter. May I?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u336	I have a request because I can see that the opposition senators are very critical, and they're arguing that we've been sitting here for so long. [[Voice from the room: No, we're talking...]] I'd ask your marshal to follow the rules of procedure to make sure there's a minute for the question. Then the discussion will be more efficient. [[And questions, not...]] Yeah, and so those are questions so we can speak in accordance with the rules. Then it'll be easier, more efficient, and it won't be from the adversaries themselves, that we've been sitting here too long and we'll find Christmas Eve, because it's not right.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u337	Thank you very much. This voice is addressed to the next ladies and gentlemen of the senators... [[I'm in, but give me the clock, because Senator Pupa said one minute and 30 seconds, and I checked it out.]] ...to stick to the limits of speeches. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Excuse me...]] Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u338	I can only answer that question with questions, Senator. Is the Constitutional Tribunal a serious body? Did... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, but these questions are going to be more than just a few sentences in a affirmative and informed form. Is the Constitutional Tribunal an extremely important body and a serious body of the Polish state? Is this crisis we have today, the crisis of the Court, extremely serious and important from the point of view of our country's situation and the seriousness with which our voters are watching it, those who gave us a mandate to sit here today? Does this seriousness of the situation, the extraordinary circumstances surrounding the instability around the Constitutional Tribunal, therefore require extraordinary and extremely serious action? Yes, it is precisely because of the seriousness of this situation, because of the gravity of the issue of the Constitutional Tribunal, because of the serious assessment of the crisis that has happened around it, that we decided to take extraordinary, rapid action so that, without even looking at our private time, we would not divide the hair into four, just get to work and quickly solve what we were asked to do so that Poles in their homes on Christmas time, I hope, on Christmas Eve, would no longer have to worry about the stability of the law in connection with the Constitutional Tribunal, because thanks to your decision, this law would be stable.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u339	Thank you very much. Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u340	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Minister, I have a question of a similar nature to the questions of the representatives of the Platform. 'Cause it's a good criticism right now... But do you know any opinion from that time when the Constitutional Court Act was passed in June? At that time, there was no opinion of the legal authorities. [[They were.]] [[They were.]] Second question. Minister, I know very well that you ride the environments as well as the Prime Minister. Do you know the opinions of the voters, the society that gave the Platform a red card and the green card of Law and Justice? The opinion is clear: congratulate the government and make these arrangements so that Poland is Polish. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] And, gentlemen, one more thing. Gentlemen, some respect for the constitutional minister. Really, the Senate is the House of Reflection, not... Mr Klich is talking about this House of reflection, about the political rise... [[What kind of political?]] Every question of yours is political. And the slam wasn't gonna start updating the laws in June, everything would really turn out its way, and if you wanted to play... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...because the election results were known, you wanted to play everyone... [[Voice from the room: One minute, one minute!]] ...and in order for everything to actually be blocked, now, dear gentlemen, really, respect democracy. And the third question. [[Voice from the room: One minute, one minute.]] But that question would be to ask Marshal Borusewicz, because you were a marshal then. Was the European Union protesting at that time? She didn't protest about the Court. Thank you. [[A voice from the room: They wouldn't tell on themselves.]] [[Because it wasn't...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u341	Minister, do you want to answer the questions? [[Joy in the Chamber]] Maybe another question, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u342	Mr Marshal, Minister, the Minister was kind to say that 14 of the 15 judges recommended the Civic Platform. I have other data. Could I ask for an official position in writing from the Ministry of Justice, exactly how it is? How many of these 15 judges were recommended by the Civic Platform? Okay? But it's not today, it's in writing, if I may ask. [[How many on the PiS?]] [[How many on the PiS?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, but I've asked the Minister and the Minister will answer in writing. Minister, now two more comments to the Minister's statement. One. Minister, already abstracting from the European Court of Justice, which you say has a different scope of action, questionable authority That's what I realized. Mr. Safjan... I have a question for you. The President or the President of the Supreme Court also participate in the construction of draft laws in the U.S. Supreme Court system. Do you think they can't participate? Can't the Court's representatives only participate in Poland and in other countries they can? That's one question. And second question, Minister. When we speak today, on this beautiful day, about authority, the Minister says that Professor Rzepliński is not an authority, because he speaks about something there and here comes the further statement of the Minister. If we have such a good position in the law of law and expression, is the Minister's statement as Minister of Justice that the Constitutional Tribunal is acting unlawfully in the canons of decency? From what I understand, Professor Rzepliński's statement, which says that this act is illegal, is no longer part of it. I understand the minister can, and the President of the Court can't. That's what you're saying. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u343	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u344	As for the first question, the question about the American system, I would like to draw the senator's attention to the fact that the system of American law, including American constitutional law, is quite different from the continental system, the European system, on many levels the differences are really fundamental and comparing these two models is a way that will not lead us to the right conclusion. [[But that's not what I'm...]] Yes, but you asked about the United States Supreme Court. This really is a completely different court, these are different rules and they cannot be transferred to European soil. As far as comparisons are concerned, we can operate in the area of continental, European law, where independent constitutional courts operate. These constitutional courts show that such rules, the principles of distance from the legislative process, are generally respected within this judiciary. That's first of all. Secondly, these courts also take into account the different majority, at least some of these courts, as far as I am aware, the different majority in terms of judgment, not only the ordinary majority, but also the 2/3 majority or unanimity I mentioned here. So that's not an exception to the rule either. If we are looking for similarities on European ground, I am convinced that the standard is rather that the courts do not give an opinion on the legal solutions for which they come to settle in the future, and that judges do not participate in the legislative process which they later have to control, and certainly the Presidents of these courts. I can bet any money here, any one that's within my reach, of course, may not be as big as your senator, but I'm sure... [[Thank you for your appreciation.]] ...I am prepared to accept the establishment that, in a civilized, of course, democratic, law-abiding European State, there is no President of the Court who, prior to the judgment, and even prior to the hearing, goes to the media and decides, says what will be the judgment which is in line with the Constitution and which is not in line with the Constitution, and engages in a political dispute, attacking even the President or the Authority, and takes a political stance after the opposition's intention, which is a party to a certain dispute. You don't see things like that. I can tell you that I had the opportunity to talk to several ministers of justice in the countries of the European Union and when I described this story to them, it was impressive. [[But we know how the Minister described...]] In harmony with reality, I even quoted statements. That's the only reason I'm saying this to say that Professor Rzepliński's behavior is certainly unprecedented. You really don't need to be an expert on the law to judge honestly, to come to that conclusion. After all, none of you, none of you, would like to go to any court, including the regional court, with a case that will come to this court to decide, and listen earlier on the local radio to the President's statement, who in advance gives the verdict that he is about to make in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, you really don't need to have outstanding legal knowledge here, you don't need to be an outstanding lawyer to assess such behavior.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u345	Thank you very much, Minister. Now, Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u346	Minister, even if the President of the European Court of Justice has participated and participated in such work, he is simply asked by the European Parliament, because he is an expert, he can advise them, and they are still making decisions. So what you're saying here is a complete mix. After all, it is not that the judge of the Court or the President of the Court participates in the drafting of the law, e.g. to protect the environment, because it would indeed be absurd. We have here dealt with a law which concerns the Court, concerning the way it works, the way it works. Who's the better expert here? Who, if not the president, can answer questions? Making this a case is just a political play you do with your liking, but it is, sir, an abuse. And now I have the following question for you. You are very fond of saying that the selection of the first five judges was made in violation of the rules of procedure. Am I right? [[In violation of the procedures in force at the time. Yes.]] Procedure under the Rules of Procedure. [[And the laws, because there were two legal acts in parallel.]] No, no, wait a minute. I heard you say it, sir. You were kind enough to tell me what the mistake was and what the violation was. Well, the fact that the rules or the bill were... I'm sorry, I don't know whether it's in the bill or the rules anymore. Whatever. It was said that candidates were reporting the bureau and Members. [[It's in the Rules of Procedure.]] In the rules, yes. And you have shown from this that this provision means that if the bureau submits candidates, 50 Members must add to it. Sir, this is absurd! You're embarrassing yourself with that statement. [[He didn't say that.]] And you're publicizing it. You say that's why this choice was illegal. You know what? Now that there are no better arguments, I understand there's this one, but... [[May I? It's a formal matter.]] There you go. In the Constitution we have e.g. said that the legislative initiative is entitled to the President, the Council of Ministers and 15 Members. [[But I would, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Mr. Senator, let me remind you of the time limit for questioning.]] I'm almost done. I'm done. And 15 Members. Yes? Whatever, everybody's supposed to sign together. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Karczewski on a formal matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u348	Yes, I'm on a formal matter, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to ask for a 10-minute break and call the Senior Convention. But I would like to point out at this point that Senator Borowski asked the question irregularly, he has exceeded time four times. I measured it. This is Senator Borowski's irregular conduct. [[The senator will be punished.]] [[But, Mr. Marshal...]] It was possible for one minute. You've been out of time four times. [[I've crossed the line, okay, I'm very sorry, but I have so little contact with the Minister...]] But there's no permission to break the rules. [[Please understand me...]] There's no permission to break the rules. [[Okay, but what was the irregular nature of the question?]] But you've been asking questions in irregular ways for four minutes. [[Oh, in that sense.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u349	There was a request for a 10-minute break. We're adjourned until 10:35 p.m. [[I'm the one who's supposed to answer later after the break. Yes?]] [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 23 to 22 minutes 59]] You're the minister. I'm reopening the session. Sorry for the delay. We had a senior convention meeting. Senator Komarnicki came forward to ask the question... Oh, and the Minister. Would you like to answer Senator Borowski's question, Minister? [[Voice from the room: No questions...]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u350	I think Senator Borowski's question, Mr. Marshal Borowski, is based on a misunderstanding. As far as I know, you are not a lawyer, and perhaps that is why your statement reveals a lack of knowledge about the legal specificities and functioning of the European Union. But in that case, I'm here to help and explain. The European Court of Justice is a court established under the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. As part of the treaty. It's protocol... Its statutes are built, enshrined in those treaties, which are an international agreement concluded between States. So the judges could not participate in the creation of this statute, Mr. Marshal. And you are mistaken if you claim that the judges were involved in the opinion of the legal acts which gave rise to the creation of a statute which has just been concluded between the States as an annex to those treaties. It's impossible, so maybe someone misled you. Not necessarily all of us need to know everything. You're not a lawyer, you might not know that, so I'm explaining it to you. The nature and status of this tribunal Please check this out. This is exactly what I'm saying, not what you asked and suggested. So the judges could not participate in the work on the statute. They could have been involved in working on their own regulations. Each tribunal has the right to create its own rules of procedure, and the Polish Court has the right to establish its own rules of procedure, and no one questions that. That's the answer to your first question. As regards the second question, it concerned issues related to interpretation, interpretation of words which were not included in the Rules of Procedure but in the newly adopted law. It is about the consistency of the "and', which implies certain consequences by applying a system interpretation presented by outstanding experts. I will refer here to Professor Banaszak, Professor Szymank, as long as my memory is correct, Professor Barcinski. They all pointed out precisely in the context of interpretation and interpretation, systemic, functional, grammatical interpretation, because, by making some conclusions about standards and character, one cannot rely only on a simple interpretation, such as could result from a purely literal understanding of the rules, but one must look at the systemic context of this provision... And that interpretation. Please check, reach for the opinion, I read it It is leading to the conclusions that I presented in one of the TV broadcasts. And inevitably these broadcasts are short, so the thought also had to be shortened, appropriate to the duration of the TV programme, and not to the ability to put out all the arguments that are presented in very extensive, widely justified by the application of different interpretations, interpretations of legal standards. They lead to the conclusion that the application of mixed regulation, on the one hand, of the law adopted by the Civic Platform, on the other hand, of the rules still in force, led to the incorrect application of the law in practice and thus to the ineffective selection of these 5 judges by the previous parliament. And all this, these opinions and conclusions, led the Sejm to decide in the form of resolutions in which the Sejm concluded that that choice could not exist. This was merely a conclusion stating the effect of these opinions, which I have mentioned here, of the opinions of outstanding experts. They have shown by way of interpretation that the rules adopted by the Civic Platform have not been applied correctly. It did not even show a consequence, i.e. it did not apply only one legislative act which it adopted. If it were based only on the law it adopted, perhaps most of the Platform and PSL would not have made the mistakes that unfortunately occurred and led to the conclusion that this choice was not effective. Of course, you have the right to have a different opinion about this; I do not question it. But I also note that the Constitutional Tribunal has no right to judge this individual act in the form of a choice. Whether these opinions expressed by prominent constitutionalists or professors that I have referred to here are correct or not... Opinions may be different, but most of the Seym that today... Well, not so much today as two weeks ago she expressed her view on the matter and took the view that the assessments in these opinions on the conduct of the electoral process related to the legal basis used, on the one hand, by the law passed by the Sejm at the end of last term, on the other hand, with the application of the rules which had been in force for many years... All of this led to an ineffective choice and thus gave rise to the conclusion that this choice did not exist. And thus, going further, it gave the Sejm this term of office the legitimacy to carry out this choice effectively. And this choice was effectively carried out on the basis of one piece of legislation, which is still in force and provides for a selection procedure. That's what this is about. And everyone, I emphasize... If you also have respect for the law... Anyone who takes the citizens seriously cannot say that the Constitutional Tribunal has been effectively elected in its two-time judgments in this case. Because the Court could not comment on this. The Court only stated that the legal rules on which the choice was based were in line with the Constitution And we're not questioning that. Yes, the Court considers that and we respect this view, and I respect it, even though I do not share it. And I can make a legal argument why I don't share it, but this is a different story right now and we're not gonna talk about it. It is important that the standards are in line with the constitution, but the way these standards are applied in practice in confusion also with the standards contained in the Rules of Procedure has led to an ineffective choice and thus gave the Sejm the basis for an effective choice of 5 judges. And since the president swore to them... The President of the Constitutional Tribunal is not an instance above the law, and there is no way to question such a choice, and there is no way to question the decision of the President who has taken the oath. What powers does he have to do that? What paragraph does that indicate? There's no law. This is an abuse of the law. I repeat, this is an abuse of the law. If you respectfully speak about compliance with the law, the rules of law, then lean on it, I think, and ask outstanding experts and lawyers about what title or legal basis the President of the Court has to question the decisions taken by the Sejm and then recognised by the President by taking an oath by swearing in. The President of the Court does not have such powers. He's the President of the Court, and in my opinion, he's breaking the law. In conclusion, I think I've explained some misunderstandings that have happened between us. [[Applause]] Yes. As regards the status of the European Court of Justice, which, by its nature, could not be linked to the procedure for the appointment of judges, as well as to the interpretation of the consistency and the mixing of two legal orders, regulations and laws, I refer the professor to the opinion of the experts referred to, there are set out arguments, very detailed, on several dozen pages It's worth reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u351	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Ambrosik. [[Mr. Marshal, ad vocem.]] Why don't you go first, Senator Ambrosik? [[Okay, here you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u352	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, how do you assess the application of the Civic Platform to the Constitutional Tribunal for the provision of security in connection with the bill that we are seeking in the context of Professor Chmaj's opinion, which considers that the request for security made by the Platform is wrong and ineffective because it cannot be frozen, the President is obliged to sign it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u353	Thank you so much for that question. The answer is obvious: the proceedings in this case should be dismissed by the Court, because... And here we return to the statements that have already been in part in my earlier answers in connection with the question of ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Namely, the Court is not called for the scrutiny of individual acts, but for the evaluation of normative acts. The decision to choose a particular judge is not of a normative nature. Therefore, the Court is not in a position to assess the correctness of the application of the law in this particular case, that is not its sphere of competence. So, you can say, of course, by looking for an analogy that is not precise here, but just to understand It's like a family court and a caring court issued convictions for serious criminal offences for life imprisonment or 15 years of imprisonment. That would be outside the scope of this court's cognition. Similarly, if a criminal court wanted to divorce, it would be out of the scope of this court's cognition, because a criminal court is not from settling such legal relations between people. Let me put it briefly: each court has a defined scope of competence, property in fact, as a competence in the area of cognition. And in this case, the Constitutional Tribunal cannot, even if it would very much like, express its views on the correctness of the choice of those judges. Therefore, the proposal of the Platform is completely unobtrusive. And the prosecutor-general's motion, which has already been made public, is also clear in this case. And that's why Professor Chmaj's opinion or many other constitutionalists who have spoken on this matter is not surprising to me either, because it is difficult for her to be different. I would be amazed if I heard a different statement in public space, a different opinion. I'm gonna take the line right now... If I understand correctly, the senator also asked for protection. Yes? [[Security.]] [[Yeah, security.]] Well, then, ladies and gentlemen, it is best to give the floor to the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal themselves. I've done my homework. I've come prepared. and I have before me some provisions issued over the past years by the Constitutional Tribunal, which in this case was consistent and, it can be said, made very clear. The order of 11 May 2004 in which the Constitutional Tribunal states: "The specific nature of the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal makes the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure on Safeguards inappropriate to that procedure. But let's move on. On 22 February 2006, the signature of Act K 4/06: The specific nature of the proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal makes the provision of the Civil Procedure Code inadequate for the present proceedings. Come on... [[But to this one.]] [[Simple as a wire.]] Please read the justification. Doctor, let's not joke. Order of 4 October 2006, letter of Act K 31/06: The Constitutional Tribunal's ruling of the Code of Civil Procedure on Safeguards does not apply to the guarantee. And then, on 11 April 2007, the signature of Act K 2/07. In that provision, the Court notes that there is no special provision under the Constitutional Tribunal Act which would allow the application of the contested provisions to be suspended until the judgment on their constitutionality or non-constitutionality is given before the Constitutional Tribunal. I can read it again so there's no doubt. [[We get it, we get it.]] I think it is worth listening to this, because the State is highly commended, and you are calling attention to the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal, so I am appealing to this authority, the authority expressed in the rulings of that Court, and not one. There is no special provision under the Constitutional Tribunal Act which would allow the application of the contested provisions to be suspended until the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of the Constitutional Tribunal has been decided before the Constitutional Tribunal. [[But there was no suspension.]] Dear Member State, in this case it is a matter of safeguards, appropriate application of the CCPD. In this case, the line of case-law, which is defined not only in those statements which I referred to, but also in other positions expressed by the Constitutional Tribunal, is one, unchangeable, consistent. What's going on? Suddenly, at the request of Members of the Civic Platform, there is a 180-degree change and what is impossible, what is not, suddenly is. So? How can this be explained in the context of authority and confidence in these indisputable, always reliable and certain judgments of the Constitutional Court? Well, ladies and gentlemen, that is why the statements of many constitutionalists, also in the media, which are involved in my opinion in the pursuit of the Law and Justice, Solidarna Polska, the United Right, groups which prepare these changes... Turn on TVN24. Today, several professors from various universities, who, on the other hand, critically evaluate the proposals of law and justice, do not share their legitimacy in a clear way. All those I've had the chance to listen to That the Court cannot apply in this case accordingly, the provision of the Civil Procedure Code, because it would be a violation of the rules which define the functioning of the Court. So, in one word, I think it's clear. Here we are dealing with a situation that is quite unusual, in which unfortunately political emotions have sneaked into the court and decided, not the merits of the case and the arguments of a legal nature, to decide, i.e. to apply, contrary to the established line of case law, to safeguard proceedings. Once, of course, such a judgment has been given, in my view, in a manifest manner, with a gross violation of the law on which the Constitutional Tribunal operates. This shows that the Court, in a subjective way, unfortunately impartially became a judge in its own case, engaging in its decision. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u354	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u355	Mr. Marshal, there's something I'd like to know first. I can withdraw from this question if I am sure that the Minister will remain with us during the discussion. Because forces aren't equal. The Minister says he has all the time he needs, and I have a minute... [[That's Senate policy.]] I see. I've got a minute. That's why I'm asking you if you're gonna stay because then I'm gonna take a look at what you said here as part of my time. Or you'll leave us. [[Voices from the O.R.: Leaves.]] [[No, she needs to sleep.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u356	Mr. Marshal... [[Yes?]] ...I hope that you will be understanding about the voices that were here in the hall, about the holidays that are ahead of us... [[No, no, we're immune.]] ...and the discussion won't last long. If it doesn't last long, I'll stay, of course. [[So there's no guarantee. This is...]] [[We cannot promise you that, Minister, because I already have twenty requests for debate.]] [[There's no guarantee.]] That's my answer. [[There's no guarantee, okay.]] [[Voice from the hall: Minister has a small child.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u357	Mr. Marshal, then in a telegraph brief. I would ask the Minister not to use that condescending tone you like to use, e.g. Saying, "You're not a lawyer, and I'm... [[I'm stating the facts.]] No, no, sir. At the moment when we took note of the opinions of all the authorities, the Supreme Court, the prosecutor's office, the barrister's council, the KRS, on this law and its specific provisions, the opinions that say that these provisions are unconstitutional or that they will paralyze the Court, and you say otherwise, I have doubts as to whether you are a lawyer. But I'm not saying that. Okay, now the case... [[Voice from the hall: Of course not.]] Now, case number two. Someone sir That's what you're telling me. You misled me about the Court of Justice case. Then I'll tell you who. He misled me, Professor Safjan, who is a judge of the Court of Justice, and, I suspect, he knows better than you what's going on there. That's point two. And point three. You have developed this subject of security, the issue that there once were resolutions. Yes, they were. But I'm gonna read it to you because you should know that, Art. Forty-four more existing law...will be gone in a moment, but for now it is. It states that the Court is adjudicating in full composition, among others. in cases in which the formation of the Court intends to depart from the legal view expressed in a judgment given in full composition. And so the Court, in its full composition on 1 December, rejected the view and made a provision in this case that it would alter its interpretation in connection with such, and not with any other situation which had taken place, since this situation had never happened before. And according to the bill, he had the right to do it. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u358	First of all, I must say, Mr. Marshal... may I? [[Yes, please.]] I have to say And I recall the time when you were a marshal in the Sejm. You're lucky Mr. Marshal doesn't want to imitate your practice in the past, when it was never understood for even a few seconds... [[E, it was, it was.]] ...time to perform; I had the chance to find out myself. But it is good that you have more understanding colleagues here, and that may also be the influence of the Senate, which is the Chamber of reflection and greater understanding. And that's worth noticing, too. But I will refer to your comments on Professor Safjan. Mr. Marshal, if you don't believe me, if you're suggesting that I'm misleading you, we're even sending you back to Wikipedia. This is a very simple way of checking the nature of the statute. If you don't want to reach out to more outstanding works The European Court of Justice. That's where you'll read about his character. It is certainly the result of an agreement between states, so it is not possible for judges to participate in this agreement, because I think you understand that these two possibilities would be completely excluded. That's one thing. If I had any further comments that you were kind enough to make here... Excuse me, sir, because it's late. [[Security.]] Mr Marshal referred to the issue of safeguards and a change of legal view. That's right, I'm not denying what your marshal was polite to say that there's a rule that allows you to change the direction of the trial line. Only the question arises as to what happened, that the Constitutional Tribunal, which has not once, not twice, not three and not four times dealt with this problem in a general sense, expressed itself in a fundamental and firm manner, without a shadow of doubt, and said, on the basis of identical legal and constitutional regulations, that it has no competence to apply this safeguard measure in the Code of Civil Procedure accordingly, suddenly broke this legal line. What happened? And isn't it the case that judges have become judges in their own case? Isn't it just that the judges have shown what some politicians or people who are involved in this bill are afraid of, that they may lose their distance to the cause they recognize, if it directly concerns them? In short, the statements of the many experts that you referred to... Since the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal itself does not work on your marshal, which has very precisely justified his position, excluding the possibility of using a protective measure properly applied by the Civil Procedure Code, it is worth considering the statements of the numerous professors whom you have just referred to, and who, indeed, are critical of the projects prepared by the Law and Justice, but at the same time rule out the possibility for the Constitutional Tribunal to apply safeguards. They dispute such a sudden change of case law and do not indicate any substantive reasons which would have led them to justify such a course of action by the Constitutional Tribunal in this case. In a word, that also makes you think. Let me sum up: Dear Members of the Constitutional Tribunal are judges, and judges are only human beings, and that is why it is of such value that the Constitutional Tribunal should be pluralistic to reflect representatives of different backgrounds and values. [[Applause]] [[The minister, too.]] And what does the Law and Justice propose in this alleged assassination that we are being accused of in these brown shirts we claim to wear? I don't want to use even more brutal words and comparisons of suffolated words with regard to us, to this government, to Law and Justice, also by prominent professors. Professors who should be ashamed of those words and comparisons if they know anything about history and need to know. Namely, it is apparent from these comparisons that unfortunately the scale of political emotions and ignorance causes total blindness to what the seriousness of our debate and discussion is about. I would prefer that this seriousness, also with regard to the statements of some professors, prevail over emotions, over those political conflicts which can naturally find their outlet and expression in the High House, but should not seem so. To take the mountain in the case of outstanding professors who, unfortunately, forget their particular role. So let me get this straight: because of the timing, we're all tired. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, I'm tired too. After all, you have been debating this problem for hours, and our positions are well known, the government's position is well known, and I think we will now repeat our arguments and convince each other with little chance of success. We believe that we have a democratic mandate to push this solution that we are talking about. We believe that the proposal for law and justice is not an attempt on democracy because we propose that five judges be elected by law and justice. We're convinced it's been done legally... [[What have you got to lose?]] ...choice. This alleged coup still means that there are nine judges elected by the Civic Platform and PSL at the Constitutional Court. It's five to nine. Is that how totalitarian power works? After all, we still agree that the majority in the constitutional court will have the Civic Platform and the PSL. That's nine to five. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not joke! If we were actually talking about inclinations related to some totalitarian power... I do not know an example of totalitarian power which would allow the majority in an important body like the Constitutional Tribunal to have opposition. I don't know this case in history. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[After all, the Court is independent, Judge, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u359	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to... I'm sorry. [[Okay, I'm gonna...]] [[Then why change?]] I'm sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please! Gentlemen! Mr. Senator, I'm in session. Now for your question, Senator Zientarski... [[Take it easy. No questions, no questions asked.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[As part of the discussion...]] [[I'm quitting.]] Senator Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u360	Minister, I'll quote an article. 190 point 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland: The Constitutional Tribunal's rulings are by majority. How is it that the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal decides by a majority of 2/3 of the votes and further, in the presence of at least 13 Judges of the Tribunal? We've got Christmas ahead of us, and I'm sure we wish everyone health, and so do all the judges, but you just said yourself that judges are just people. In that case, if there is such a case that 2 or 3 judges will be in difficulties because they have the right to get sick, how will it have until 3 and 6 months to decide the Constitutional Tribunal? Can't you see there's going to be a paralysis of the Court's operation?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u361	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u362	Senator, first of all, since the constitution speaks of the majority and does not specify what is to be the majority, it means that the legislator has the freedom to clarify this majority. The Constitution in many places generally formulates certain standards, which are defined and clarified in very many laws. This is the case. the Constitutional Tribunal Act. Because if we were to accept the reasoning that your senator set out, it would mean that the legislator could not clarify anything at the level of the law, because everything was regulated and closed firmly at the level of the Constitution. In the meantime, please refer to the law adopted by the Civic Platform and the PSL in the previous term and see how many articles it contains, how many clarifications in relation to the Constitution. You could say it every time: it's not in the constitution, and since the constitution doesn't contain it, it means that it's a clarification for growth. And that's the difference between us. I believe that, in many points, the bill prepared and passed by the Platform, although it contains clarification of constitutional solutions that you will not find in the Constitution, is not contrary to the Constitution. In some it has been, but in many it is not contradictory. And the same goes for clarifying the majority case you're asking about. In my view, the legislator has a mandate to include such clarification in the law. If it were clear, what is the majority, that it is a mere majority or a 2/3 majority, and sometimes the constitution uses the precise wording of the majority, then the matter would be decided. But it's not. If it isn't, then the legislator can clarify it. As far as 2/3 of the votes are concerned, if you were to accept the reasoning that you wanted to put forward, the German tribunal in Karlsruhe, which is, you can say, a model for many tribunals created in many countries of the European Union, would also be subject to decision-making paralysis, because in a number of cases the legislator consciously defined the requirement of qualified majority, 2/3 precisely. From there, I believe the authors of the Law and Justice project have taken the role model Two-thirds to show... [[But not in all cases.]] ...that there are matters that, because of their seriousness, require such a settlement. In short, it is a matter of assessing the legislator, which we consider to be serious. I believe that any constitutional assessment case should be considered serious because the Sejm, 460 Members are working on the bill... [[Minister, spare me.]] ...Senate The whole chamber, the president... [[Then why do you ask?]] ...and before that, there's a lot of different games. And then what? 3 Judges Because it's 3:2 in the vote he has the right to decide whether it's constitutional or not? [[One's asking, the other's whining.]] This is the law of the legislator to clarify what qualified majority will settle specific cases. The Karlsruhe Court also has its hands tied by a decision of the parliament, the Bundestag, which in its time decided this. And the Polish Parliament would also decide to the extent that it would consider appropriate, because that is its mandate and has the right to define it. This is not the law of the court which itself determines the scope of its action and the settlement of cases, but it is the parliament which is in power here that has a mandate, and that is the question of the political decision that has been taken. Third, it's about time-limits for reconnaissance. The senator asks whether these three-month and six-month terms, depending on the nature of the case, will not lead to a chronicity. Well, I think in the case of such serious decisions as the issue of constitutionality, the time for reflection is very necessary so that these decisions are not rash. And this is pointed out by these sudden judicial changes taken hastily in the case we are discussing here, precisely the change of the caselaw line in the case-law as regards the safeguard procedure, applied suddenly, ad hoc before the Court, without reflection, without reflection. Perhaps if the Court had more time, 3 months, it would not have decided to do so. In addition to this argument, I would like to draw the senator's attention to one point that you seem to be missing and which he does not see, I think. Namely today cases are waiting to be settled about 1.5 years, 2 years, some even 3 years. And the question is, why is this happening... [[But now he won't be able to control it.]] ...that the Court of Justice is meeting within a week on the application of the Civic Platform, and the complaints brought by citizens are settled after two or three years. Well, the question is why this is happening. This bill will make it impossible for us to have this freedom, that the order of influence, as it is in common courts, will decide on the recognition of the case, not... [[This is not the case in common courts.]] ...see the president's will, who, for some reason known to himself, changes this order to the detriment of the citizens who are making complaints. We regulate it, we have the right. And how do common courts work? Well, there are lawyers here. Isn't it by the order of action? Isn't that a rule? [[No, it's not.]] It's a rule. If that's the rule, then why would a court, which is a constitutional court, act contrary to that principle? [[But it's the court that determines...]] Let me put it briefly: we remove the freedom and guarantee greater impartiality and objectivity in these matters. I think that's the right thing to do. And last but not least, a decisive argument. I will refer to Professor Zoll's words, repeatedly referred to here, and to another legal matter that is closer to me, because I am a discipline for specialization, criminal law. Professor Zoll, when I criticized the legal solutions adopted by you by the majority of PO-PSL in terms of changing the criminal procedure, i.e. introducing an adversarial procedure, said this: we will see, practice will verify, if there are delays, then it will be possible to withdraw, something can be changed. Then I'll say, quoting Professor Zoll: we'll see, practice will verify After all, if your demands and comments are correct, the legislator will have the right to intervene and make a difference. We believe and believe that such a problem will not be if the Constitutional Tribunal changes the discipline of work, if the votes are determined at least once every two weeks or once a week, only they will be determined with much greater intensity and if the judges of the Tribunal do not fly on trips, e.g. to China, as the media reported. I'd like to ask you how much it cost... [[Voice from the room: Minister!]] [[Voice from the room: This is offensive!]] How much? If that's true. I repeat, if that's true. I wish I could believe that's not true. If that's not true, then of course I'll back off and apologize. But if it's true that the judges flew to China, that five judges paid a visit to China, then why did they make it? How was it related to the mandate they were carrying out? [[And your friends to Madrid for whores...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] They made deals. They made contracts, really. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] Stop it, sir. Emotions show the accuracy of this argument. [[The voice from the room: That's rude!]] And you will admit, if the Minister or Prime Minister is going to China, then... I understand. Economic agreements, political interests. But what role do the Presidents and Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal have in China, and what will they learn? [[I'm sorry, I'm so sorry!]] People's rule of law? [[Excuse me.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a joke. [[Minister!]] How much did it cost? It's worth it for you to figure it out. [[Then criticize them, but don't punish them by not judging.]] It's worth finding out. It's a matter of... [[Mr. Marshal Borowski, I didn't give you the floor.]] It's a matter of organizing a job. [[Minister!]] Less trips and more work! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u363	Minister! Excuse me a minute! I give the floor to Marshal Karczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u364	I would ask you, Mr. Marshal, to draw your attention to Senator Jan Rulewski, so that you do not speak inappropriately. What he said was an outrageous statement. [[I'm sorry, but my question was about facts. I wanted to ask them, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u365	Mr. Senator! [[Is the next step gonna be taking a ponytail?]] Mr. Senator Rulewski, I didn't give you the floor. Mr. Marshal, I was going to do this, but in the course of the conversation, in the course of your thought, you were Minister. Mr. Senator Rulewski, I find your statement outrageous. We will return to this topic in our respective committee, or disciplinary commission, because your statement was unworthy of the Senate. [[Voice from the courtroom: 3,000 punishments.]] Thank you very much. Please continue, Minister. [[That's all I had to say.]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] [[As I understand it, there are no more questions, so I would also like to thank you for...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u366	If you don't mind, I'd like to... The Minister didn't answer my question completely, so I'd like to ask you again... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There's only one thing I'd like to ask you about what I said, which is 13 judges in court, Minister. I have this question, you did not answer this question: will there not be paralysis at the moment when the 2 and 3 judges will be e.g. on sick leave for a long time?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u367	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u368	Mr. Senator, if there are five formations, that's enough. If there is a formation to investigate the case, and this also applies to the general court That one judge is sick... Unfortunately, there are certain consequences, but that does not mean that for this reason someone is questioning the functioning of e.g. five-person warehouses at the Constitutional Court. There may, of course, be random situations that will make it impossible for some reason to assemble a five - person composition that was intended to investigate the case. But once again, I stress: practice will be the best answer to your doubts. Let's give these solutions a chance. These are solutions that show the great seriousness with which we are dealing with the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. The strength of these decisions will be much greater when they are adopted by a qualified majority and when they require the views of the judges to be heard before the decision is taken. It will be a guarantee that these decisions will not be hasty, but will be taken with reasonableness and reasonableness. And it will be even better if this Court represents people with different systems of values, different views when it is not uniform, as the Civic Platform wanted. Because if 14 out of 15 judges were to be elected by the majority of the Civic Platform, then such a constitutional court would have nothing to do with democracy or the rule of law in my mind, but would only be a monopoly of one party. That would actually be an assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, of the idea of the Constitutional Tribunal. Because the value of the Constitutional Tribunal is due to the fact that it represents representatives of different backgrounds. It is pluralistic as to the substance and principles, so that different views are present during discussions on the constitutionality of the legal standards contained in the laws, their relation to the constitution. After all, the senator knows very well that the constitution is a set of very general norms and a system of values of man, his views have an important impact on the application of the interpretation of law and interpretation. Therefore, it enriches this Court that there are an additional 5 judges selected by other environments, people who bring their experience and enrich those judgments that will take place. They're still outnumbered, so what kind of bombing is it? Ladies and gentlemen, let's not joke, it's five to nine. Really, a little serious. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u369	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u370	Minister, I am an engineer and I can count. It's important. 'Cause I'm gonna put together a 13-person squad in so many cases where there's gonna be a ruling... Yeah, I'm pretty sure. We'll probably go back to that question next year or in a year and a half, we'll address it to the Minister, and I'll repeat those questions. That's... [[Of course.]] ...that would mean 100% paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal's activities... [[I have a question...]] ...because it's impossible to choose a 13-person squad out of 15 people to handle cases. And you, Minister, know it well that the point is that the Court should not consider matters. Thank you. [[There was no question. Where was the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u371	I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but we're at a question-to-question stage, and these kind of speeches will be here any minute. I inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to Senator Czarnobaj's question. That's what I've got written down. [[I take it that question is recorded somewhere, right? Because we're gonna...]] Yeah, yeah. [[It's in the transcript.]] Mr. Marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u372	Because it's not clear to me what the government's position on this issue is... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[There's no position. Come on, Mr. Marshal!]] ...I would also ask you to answer my question in writing. [[Excuse me, which question, Mr. Marshal?]] A question about the government's position. [[Minister, another hour.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u373	Mr. Marshal, you are a very experienced parliamentarians, a marshal, and you know that in order for the Minister to speak on behalf of the government, he must have proper authority. I came here today at the request of the marshal and represent the Ministry of Justice, which because of its responsibility is related to the matter that you are investigating. I can express my opinion as a minister of justice, a member of this government, but I have no title to take a position on behalf of the entire government. I answer your question honestly and I think the answer is very clear. I may think that these opinions, which I am expressing here, do not differ far from the position of most of my fellow ministers, with whom I have had the opportunity to discuss and exchange views on this issue on a number of occasions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u374	Minister, I'm sorry, but I'd like to have in writing what you're saying, just this. [[I think they're all asleep.]] [[It's in the record, Mr. Marshal, we're in a modern age of technology.]] Minister, this is a possibility in the Rules of Procedure, so I ask for a position in writing. And that's where I end my speech. [[No, I'm sorry, but...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u375	Mr. Marshal Karczewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u376	Mr. Marshal, as you said, you have been a very experienced parliamentarians for eight years... you have been a marshal for 10 years and you know very well that a written answer is being given to questions that have not been answered. The Minister has given an answer and is absolutely not obliged to send a reply in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the problem is, there was no answer.]] [[Yeah, she was.]] It was, you didn't hear. [[An answer that doesn't have an answer?]] Mr. Marshal, there was an answer. [[There's no answer.]] You had the password: I listen, I understand, I'm helping. And you don't listen, you don't understand, you don't help. [[Applause]] [[They're specially prolonging.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u377	Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u378	Dear Marshal, how about this? It's almost midnight, Mr. Minister has been subjected to a very high test, splattered... Maybe, just to unload the emotions between the marshals so we can sing a carol together because Christmas Eve is coming? [[Voice from the hall: Why don't we dance again?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u379	Excuse me, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please be quiet. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you very much. So I'm already fired?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u380	Once again, I thank you very much for this discussion, for the questions you have asked, also for those questions where perhaps my answer did not satisfy you fully, and for the arguments between us. And Mr. Marshal. I recommend once again to Borowski the European Court of Justice. It is an extremely important body in the European Union. I had a chance to go to Luxembourg... I encourage you to visit him. You'll find that Professor Safjan, sometimes speaking, maybe, imprecisely, could be misleading. It's worth reaching into the statute... You will then know that the judges could not participate in the work on the statute, because it is simply impossible because of the nature of this tribunal. [[Applause]] Besides, I would like to wish Mr Marshal and all the ladies and gentlemen, regardless of the club and political colors, a sincere wish for a healthy, joyful, merry Christmas, those beautiful holidays that are inscribed in our Polish tradition. I wish it were really Christmas beautifully lived, family. Everything that's best. Greetings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u381	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u382	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I perform as a senator, but I am also a citizen and, like many citizens, I have some concerns. I don't know where the law and justice are staying. I don't know exactly what Law and Justice are up to. And that's why I'm so worried. I am very concerned because the bill you have proposed violates the constitution in a number of fundamental points. And since this law concerns the judiciary or the Court, which is part of the justice system, then, of course, I think the question arises: where will the Law and Justice stop? These arrangements applied to the constitutional court are precedents and can be passed on to the general courts. Hence my fears, similar to the fears of many thousands of Poles, many tens of thousands of Poles, because after two major demonstrations it can be judged so. It seems to me that the state has underestimated the level of awareness of our society. You thought that you would do whatever you wanted with the Constitutional Tribunal and, at most, the Members of the opposition and the opposition senators would speak and deal with this issue. You should see by now that you are wrong. This issue was raised by tens of thousands of Poles... [[Millions, millions!]] And it's not a question of anyone questioning the results of the election, as you put it. But we will not agree to violate the Constitution on this basis, because until it is changed, everyone is in force. Above the president, the Prime Minister, the Seym and the Senate is the law. [[Court. TK.]] And the constitution. [[Where's the sovereign?]] This was the case in the Prussian state when there was a conflict between the ordinary miller and the king of Prussia. King Prussia said that the sentence was to be appropriate, and the miller said that there are still courts in this country. And he was right. He won the trial with the king. This is a situation in which the ordinary citizen must be guaranteed the right to objective courts, including the Constitutional Court, to which he may bring actions. After all, it is not just a question of the fact that the Court is dealing with the assessment of the compatibility of laws with the Constitution, although this is the most important issue. And now, in my opinion, what are the regulations in this law contrary to the constitution? There's at least three. First of all, it's a 2/3 requirement. So 13 judges who can judge, at least 13 judges... so 2/3 can judge, at least 13 judges of the constitutional court... 13 judges of the Constitutional Court... [[Thirteen, not 2/3, thirteen.]] Okay, 13 judges of the constitutional court. This is contrary to the principle which is in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Since I hear lawyers and also the Minister of Justice who pretends not to know what it means to record most of the votes, I express my surprise. I'm surprised. Where there is a qualified majority in the constitution, it says in the recipe what qualified majority. [[Platforms.]] The second issue that violates the Constitution is disciplinary action, because such proceedings can be initiated by the legislative authorities. The President may initiate, this is the legislative body, and the Minister of Justice. And at the end of the entry date... The fact that the President and the Minister of Justice may initiate disciplinary proceedings against the judges of the constitutional court is the interference of the executive authority in the independence of the court. And the fact that the Sejm is to make such decisions is the interference of the legislative authority with judicial authority. The third issue, which is undoubtedly a violation of the Constitution, is the date of entry into force of this law. I mean, the liquidation of the vacathio legis. Art. 2 speaks of the state of law, which is Poland. This means that such rules must be adapted to this principle. The most commonly used vacathio legis is 14 days. But why would you do that... Why do you propose such solutions? This is not only about the paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal, which, of course, will not be able to sit for a considerable extent in this composition at the minimum of 13 judges. But why can the President and the Minister of Justice begin disciplinary action? It's clear. After all, Minister Ziobro has already said that disciplinary action should be initiated against the President of the Court, Professor Rzepliński. He made it very clear. And this is the realization of these announcements, that is, concrete. Why is this vacathio legis... [[There's a lot of them.]] Why is there basically no vacathio legis and the bill to enter into force immediately after publication? Because the creators realize that this law has serious constitutional delicacies, which is in many places contrary to the constitution. And the point is that the Court should no longer be able to deal with this law. Other provisions that refer to time limits, time limits of 3 months, six months, etc. These are additional security features. [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] Already? Dear Senate, the Court is a security system, a safeguard against the self-will of the majority. Once we remove this security system, anything can happen. Finally: Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I did not think that after decades I would be afraid of the direction in which Poland, a state of law, a democratic state, would go, for which many, many millions of Poles fought. I didn't think I'd have that kind of fear today. This is a situation where you have to realize that you're putting pressure on people who are worried about the wall. So you have to realize that there are reactions to this type of action. Finally, I would like to say that I have serious concerns not only about Poland's opinion in Europe. It will be tarnished if you go in this direction. But also that the position of Poland will be none. And there's one more thing. Unfortunately, you may be modelled upon by the next winners after... [[Time's up.]] [[That's it.]] ...four years. [[Mr. Marshal, time is up.]] What I'm trying to say is that this is a spoilsage of the state. If it were... After the next election, I'm definitely against repeating your procedures, your legal wrinkles... [[Voice from the room: Twelve minutes.]] [[It had to be done in June.]] ...to prevent the rule of law from functioning. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u383	Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski. Let me remind you of the limit of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u384	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That is, the ruin of the law, the ruin of the state took place on 12 May 2015, when, during the sitting of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and the Legislative Commission, Mr Maciej Graniecki, head of the Office of the Constitutional Tribunal, took out the amendment that Mr Robert Kropiwnicki willingly tabled. It was a famous art. 137 of the amended law, as a result of which the constitutional crisis started in Poland, which is already global and pan-European. The Civic Platform started it. It prepared a draft hand in hand with Professor Andrzej Rzepliński, who participated in more than 20 meetings of the committee, and his staff and colleagues from the Court, who defined which amendments were to be adopted in the law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act and which were not. Talking about taking over the state, ruining the law... This is done by people, it is done by a political environment that has no moral right to speak on this subject because it has assassinated the Constitutional Tribunal in the Act of 25 June 2015. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, count off the applause since my speech... [[Fun in the room]] ...because then I can't talk and I can't say the whole of my line. [[But now the senator can talk.]] Thank you very much. Therefore, we need to look at what is happening today. After the parliamentary elections we are dealing with hysteria, we are dealing with presenting reality in Poland as a bloody, as an attempt on democracy, overthrowing a democratic state of law, we are dealing with a situation of some total threat. Polish citizens can't sleep peacefully, they can't live the holidays, because on mainstream television there goes a tapeworm titled "The Balancing of the Constitutional Tribunal" and in the main installment there are real and noble defenders of this Tribunal from the Civic Platform, who will soon be lying in Rejtan Avenue before the Constitutional Tribunal, who are threatened by amazing things. Gentlemen! It's pathetic. It's pathetic. It's pathetic. Not much of it, it is harmful in the European dimension, due to the creation of a bad opinion around Poland, which you gentlemen and ladies are heating up. I would like to remind you that this bill that we are currently discussing is a fallout of the Constitution. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 197 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland has been written: The organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal and the procedure for proceedings before the Court of Justice shall be governed by the law. That's it. That's it. What the group of Members has done by proposing this law is to exercise the constitutional rights that Parliament has and to try to repair what was destroyed in the Act on 25 June 2015. As to the very content of the bill, I would say this: High Izbo, if the number of judges to judge fully is questioned, this is a strange situation, because 13 judges are also in the Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe, these are not unprecedented solutions in constitutional courts. The problem of Poland is that we have a bad constitution, an imprecise constitution, and that the judgments that have been announced so far may be different if they relate to another five ruling. For example, the issue of OFE: if 3 judges... If it was in a five-man squad and it was probably in a bigger... If judges were to rule on different views, perhaps they would find that the embezzlement of 150 billion private funds of citizens is a violation of the Constitution. As the President of the Constitutional Tribunal gave an interpretation at a general meeting of judges of the Court of Justice in 2014, that the Constitutional Tribunal in its ruling should be governed not only by the law but by the financial situation of the State, and it shows best what the Constitutional Tribunal was brought to... [[But the minister...]] [[The PiS voted for this.]] ...to which the Constitutional Tribunal has been led. And now we need corrective action. These corrective actions include: the fact that the judges are first and foremost to get a better read of the material in the case, to balance their opinions, to have the possibility of a deeper analysis, because the sentence must be passed by a majority Two-thirds of the votes. If someone questions 2/3 of the votes, it means that he fully confirms my thesis about the impreciseness of the legal system and constitution in Poland, that on the basis of the constitutional provisions any law can be repealed in part or in whole, accusing it of unconstitutionality and deriving it from the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. That is why in this situation two thirds of the votes in favour are needed so that a verdict can be reached. Here's another thing. The order of consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens have waited several months for a judgment in the OFE case, on the increase in the retirement age and its equalisation, several months. But as the Court itself was concerned, the judges and the magistrates came to life in two weeks, and suddenly they were simply able to make the right verdict. Well, you can see with your naked eye what the situation is all about. And that's why I'm saying that the Civic Platform is unable to accept the lost elections and is trying to make the Constitutional Tribunal a Constitutional Tribunal, and it started with the act of 25 June, the third Chamber of Parliament. It means that it is not the will of the Parliamentary majority, the will of the Senate majority, the signature of the President elected in democratic elections, that three of the five judges from the formation of the judge count. And this is the element that's supposed to make sure that what was taken in 1989, so this transformation model, continues. A model of transformation, which is that the victims... We just had the anniversary of December events. 17 years of court proceedings have been going on and no one or almost anyone has been punished in the end. And this is the justice system under the Constitution and what happened in 1989. Mr. Marshal, I'm finishing up. I'm gonna sign up to finish my speech. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u385	Please take the floor of Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u386	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think I'm gonna run out the whole limit because I'd like us to finish early. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to Minister Ziobra's speech with respect and attention. I'm used to his oratory style. We've known each other for years. And with attention because I wanted to understand where they came from and what the intentions of the Minister and the majority ruling in Poland are, in order to dismantle this main institution protecting the observance of the Constitution in Poland, which is the Constitutional Tribunal. And I think I understand. If you don't, fix me up. These are political intentions. Minister Ziobro at one point has developed such a thread, saying that we cannot allow a larger part of the composition to be created. I think he even talked about 14 members of the Constitutional Tribunal. It was still from the days of the Civic Platform. If someone has political intentions, it can easily dismantle any institution, even one that is a specific fuse, as we know, the stability of the law system in every country. And that is the Constitutional Court. Today, before noon and in the afternoon, at the committee meeting and for a long part of the discussion here in this House, we have avoided, I believe, this political motivation. We talked about rules, we talked about rations, we exchanged opinions, and so on. I believe that this is how we should talk about whether the Constitutional Tribunal should be kept in its present form or whether it should change anything. In my opinion and my colleagues, I have already expressed this during the debate in committee. Hurry is a bad advisor, and a very big haste is a very bad advisor and has a terrible effect that is difficult to predict at the moment. We are able to imagine not only what many speakers had said earlier, namely that the ruling would be slowed down, but we can also imagine the complete dismantling of the Constitutional Tribunal, putting the Constitutional Tribunal in a freezer, where the temperature of absolute zero prevails. The removal of the Constitutional Tribunal from this freezer will be extremely difficult in the future. We believe that there will be a specific freezing of the Constitutional Tribunal. That is why we point to a number of issues that seem crucial in this debate. Firstly, a change in the rules of judgment in these three main points, where the rule becomes full composition. Secondly, the principle becomes a larger composition, 13-person rather than 9-person so far. Third, the introduction of a qualified majority requirement which will result in the Court's work being completely slowed down. I would stress that the Court's work has been completely slowed down. Perhaps, as Professor Seweryński says, this will lead to an increase in his legitimacy, but at the expense of this legitimacy will be the inhibition of the Court's work. Is that what we care about? Is that what citizens want? Is this the case for those who expect their citizens' constitutional complaints to be resolved in the Court? I don't think so. I ignore the issue of non-constitutionality, as my predecessors said, the question of replacing the ordinary majority by a qualified majority. We have the right to suspect that the liquidation of vacathio legis is a procedure leading to the fact that, after today's probable vote and adoption of this law, the President will sign it quickly, will soon be published in the Official Journal of the Constitutional Tribunal. I mean, the point is that by way of facts made, the Court will only be its own impostor, it will become merely a impostor of the Constitutional Tribunal. If the principle of handling cases in chronological order is introduced I'm not denying anything to the calendar. In fact, we will see that matters of perhaps less importance will be dealt with earlier than those of greater importance. That is why we believe that the question of preserving the current situation in which the President of the Constitutional Tribunal decides on the case is so crucial. In conclusion... The second charge of non-constitutionality is the charge of breaching the principle of independence of the judge. This principle is violated in two places, among others. by enabling the project to continue for the time being Mr President and the Minister for Justice to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[To file an application, not to initiate an application.]] Submitting, all right. But this is interference, this is the interference of the executive authority, the Minister of Justice, the President, with regard to the judiciary. This is a violation of the principle of independence, followed by further steps in the future. Therefore, there would be such a request to the High House: let us look at this law, apart from political intentions, and let us look at it as if we were considering the future of the most important institution protecting the citizen from abuse of power, regardless of what direction this authority comes from. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u387	Senator Zdrojewska, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u388	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I would like to say that I am aware of the mistakes that the PO made in June, but I think we are all aware that these errors, which are obvious to me, are just an excuse for the whole fight that you have given us. [[Are you sure about this?]] I'm sure of it, I'm absolutely sure of it, Mr. Senator, and I'll be wondering what you'll say in six months or a year. I'll tell you why. In such a short reign, so few weeks have you eliminated, you have challenged the authority of the most important institutions in this country. [[In our country.]] You have challenged the authority of the Court, you have challenged the authority of the media and their independence, you have challenged the authority of the civil service, and we will be discussing this in a moment... [[Media, media.]] Don't interrupt me, Senator, please speak up. Mr. Marshal... [[Quiet, please, and do not disturb those who appear.]] You're welcome... You can't sit still, don't interrupt and listen to me. You have challenged the authority of the most important institutions in our country, among others. The Constitutional Tribunal, the judges of this Court, will in a moment challenge the state's authority as a public official, because you will try to liquidate civil service. We're talking about a process that's been going on lately, and we're talking about what the consequences are going to be. For you, it is not the authority of the Commissioner of the European Union or any... What's up with the Union? I have heard these statements here: what does the Union have against us? But this is, ladies and gentlemen, an opinion about Poland, about our country, about our institutions, about our Senate, about our Sejm. These are the opinions that go into the world, and we can't ignore them. And here's what I'm asking: don't underestimate it, so that we don't get too ashamed and even more embarrassed in a while. The second thing I want to say is that the upheaval of the Constitutional Tribunal, the attempt to de facto marginalize its role, the undermining of its authority will be for a huge group of Poles I am afraid that we will have to deal with such a situation that we, citizens, society, will not be able to go with any complaint, with any doubt to anyone, because we have also lost your President as the authority that upholds the Constitution. I'm sure of it. I am also disappointed that Prime Minister Szydło, who has promised new standards, tells us to work at night, each of us to prepare bubble laws at a very fast pace, does not allow us to read the draft laws. We got them half an hour before the meeting. We were going to sleep and the bill wasn't there yet, we got up in the morning and it was there, and then we came to the Senate committee meeting at 8:00 a.m. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to sit like this and you will continue to train it for a while. In a moment, the Civil Service Act will enter into session, then there will be a law that threatens the freedom of the media in Poland, all of which we will be going through. It's gonna take a few months. What kind of Poland are we gonna wake up in? How long will the next ones who come after you have to rebuild it, rebuild authority, rebuild institutions? Think about it, I appeal, and please think about it, because when you read it in six months' time, in a year's time, you'll really be ashamed. I'm absolutely convinced of that. I would like to end by recalling some words, reminding you that when everyone feels the same way, no one thinks too much. If you do not have authority outside your own environment, you will end up in vain. I don't know who's behind you, who's your only authority, I can guess, but that's really not enough. Listen to the voices of the opposition, listen to others, because society will tell you: thank you. Thank you very much, too. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u389	Please take the floor of Senator Grodzki. [[Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u390	If you don't mind. Mr. Marshal, based on the article. 48 (1) (a) 2 Section 11 of the Senate Rules of Procedure, please state whether there is a quorum in the Chamber. If there is no quorum, I ask for a break to take place when the quorum appears. [[Voice from the room: Will we vote?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u391	I object to this request. [[Will there be a vote?]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: How? But why?]] [[We will vote on the quorum.]] [[Let's vote, let's vote!]] [[Voice from the room: 10 minutes break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u392	I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 24 minutes 18 to 24 minutes 28]] Please take your seats. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Czarnobaj has formally requested a quorum. There's been an objection. So we vote. Who's in favour of a quorum? [[Voice from the room: Against.]] Against... Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[In the formal case, may I?]] [[No, we're in the middle of a vote.]] There's a vote. During the vote... [[If you don't have to vote, you just have to count it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] There's been a formal motion that I have to vote on. 56 senators voted, 12 were in favour, 44 against. [[Voting No 2]] The application for a quorum was rejected. But 56 senators voted, so we have a quorum. We continue the discussion. [[Voice from the O.R.: You didn't make it!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. I would just like to appeal to the Senators of the Civic Platform not to prolong our discussion with intent. The deliberations of the committee, ladies and gentlemen, lasted 8 hours, more than 20 senators and this kind of action, when you can see, so optically, that there is a large majority, are only aimed at extending our discussion, it has nothing to do with the history of our deliberations. You're welcome, Senator. [[Voice from the hall: But this is very constitutional...]] [[A voice from the court: But at the Court, you decided that everything was...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. I give the floor to the senator. [[You didn't need that last wine, Senator.]] Quiet again, please. Mr. Senator Rulewski, I didn't give you the floor. [[Indeed. I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I may, unlike the mood that prevails here after Mr. Ziobra's quite propaganda performance... Allow me to speak plural in the first person, i.e., "my" because... [[The voice from the hall: But it shut you out completely!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please, and do not disturb those who speak in the discussion.]] [[Voice from the room: When someone says that propaganda speech...]] Mr. Senator, please be quiet. [[I'm sorry.]] I will speak in the first person plural: we, the Senate, the higher chamber of parliament. She's called the upper chamber, not a better chamber, a smaller chamber, or any other chamber. This is because it is a higher chamber and each of us carries with it the mandate of our constituents, we are obliged to act together. And I'm hoping that maybe the miracle of Christmas Eve will cause us to give some thought to the bill we've been debating for so long. To quote Plato, the greatest evil is hatred of reason. Or else, the height of injustice is to be considered righteous, not being him. These quotations could be multiplied, but let me quote one: it is also normal that the case-law of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal may be discussed, but this does not change the fact that this discussion, especially after the ruling, is only theoretical because, according to our constitution, such a ruling has a universal force. President Lech Kaczyński said that to you. And the penultimate quote: one cannot agree that the constitution should be broken in the name of the interests of any group, party, or, more broadly, establishment. That's what President Kaczyński said. I fully agree that the constitution must not be broken. And since both the Attorney General and the Supreme Court point to significant doubts as to the few points listed in the amendments, I encourage you, I encourage all of us to consider these amendments. We don't have to do Rejtan's gestures here. We are all representatives of the same nation, and it is our job to make the best law, even if we understand slightly differently the essence of what we think is best. But I believe that we all have good intentions here, and we will aim to ensure that the final shape of this law is the best, and perhaps we will draw attention to the Sejm, that it did this in an incorrect way. We're having a major operation here. And I'm afraid that this operation will use my favorite medical comparisons, and it'll end up like not very high-flying food: the surgery went well, only the patient died. This could happen to the Constitutional Tribunal. I therefore call on you to take the amendments proposed by both the rapporteurs and those previously discussed in the Sejm seriously once again. Because history teaches that democracy without value is easily transformed into a manifest or disguised totalitarianism, said John Paul II, I think that for all of us the greatest authority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u394	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine. [[Voice from the hall: Just ended 8 years of totalitarianism.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I've been here 10 years. I think each of us, after all this time, makes some kind of summation. We in the Senate often have to collide with doubts as to whether the existence of our House makes any sense at all. This decade has brought some important achievements that the Senate could justify the need for its existence. As a repair chamber, we had particular emphasis, regardless of the political side, on all the institutions of the state that controlled the functioning of other institutions. We have adopted their reports and you have slowly started these actions in 2005. We were beginning to specialize in translating this respect into concrete terms, implementing either proposals or decisions in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal. And that's what happened in 2007. At the end of our term of office, we changed the rules of procedure and accepted this duty voluntarily. Therefore, talking about the Constitutional Court here has a particular dimension to its role. And I really must say that every voice of mockery, every voice that undermines the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal by the Senators of Law and Justice, can be regarded as astonishing. Because do you know that, in 381 judgments which were addressed to the Legislative Commission and were the subject of analysis, in 181 cases, we, the Senate, carried out those judgments, expressing the highest respect for its existence, its role, its existence here and its purpose as a resolution chamber? We also have our faults because we've fixed our mistakes sometimes. And do you know what club most often applied for an examination of the Constitutional Court law during these eight years? [[Opposite.]] [[PiS.]] Yes, Law and Justice. In this way, until October, you felt that this Court was helpful and important in repairing the law. What happened between October and today's debate? [[You blew the bill.]] [[June was.]] [[As of June, you've ruined...]] [[Quiet, please.]] And then you appealed to the Court, and in October you withdrew your application. This is the moment of breakthrough. It happened, which we all know... You won the election. I would like to say here that it is not that the Court's composition has changed because you are calling for it. It is not that this one act of June, which is fatal, has changed anything, because 181 times we have fixed constitutional errors here, trusting the Court, who has given judgments in these cases, and whose government is one, two, three. He didn't want to do it. We've taken it upon ourselves. Now that you've taken over the government, the Court has suddenly begun to question. And the composition was wrong, although it didn't change, and the weight of the judgments was wrong, and the efficiency of the Court was not so... I really don't move that fast. [[It hurts, it hurts... my heart hurts.]] This is the unveiling of a reality that speaks of false intentions, because nothing like this has happened, and you've changed your point of view. And now I would like to refer not to specific regulations, Mr. Marshal, but to the effects of what you will do. I believe those expertises that were, those voices that were so many, those amendments that we wanted... I would like to say that as a result of what you are doing, which, of course, you know very well, there is no repair, but the complete prevention of the normal functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. I am saying this because this decision cannot be taken away from the context of other actions that you have already taken. The confusion around the election, the lack of vacathio legis has been said enough here. There's no doubt... You're not fooling anybody. The Minister, even if he speaks here like a machine gun, will not contradict the fact that the decision you want to vote on today will result in the paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal. And what is a country in which it does not function because it will not be able to function, the Constitutional Tribunal? [[At least 100 countries in the world are like that.]] And there are even more who say they're democratic, and they're not, because there's no balance between the authorities. It's a shame you're not here, Professor Sewerinski. That's not the problem he signaled here that we're arguing about who has the greatest power in this country. That's what I wrote down. That's not the point. Democracy is about the balance of the authorities, not the one that will defeat and prove that it is more important. [[There's no balance.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen, it's not that important. I'm just pointing out these two elements. What are you doing in this bill, what are you doing with the Court... [[A hundred arson cases of refugee centers in Germany...]] Examples of today, Dear Members: the protest in Austria, the protest of the European Commission, articles about Poland in It has been a long time since so much about Poland was written on the front pages. [[Who set the fire...]] You're a success. It's just a pity that all these articles are questionable... [[It's your success!]] [[Voice from the room: Propaganda!]] [[Who set fire to a refugee facility in Germany? It's interesting not to talk about it.]] Mr. Marshal, how am I supposed to... [[Again, I appeal for silence.]] I'm on my way to the end. I would like to tell you that neither Polish citizens nor the international opinion nor we have been fooled here. We all see clearly that it's not what it is, and it's not even like... Look at the time, when and when we're doing this. That's what we're gonna have on New Year's Eve, thanks to you guys. [[The voice from the room: Happy birthday...]] It's not even like... The basic question is: why? Why are we doing this? [[Applause]] [[Time's up.]] Mr. Marshal, I'll finish the thought. [[You're welcome.]] [[Voice from the room: Not so...]] [[Quiet, please. Finish it quietly.]] Good. I think the next few weeks, months will show you why we're doing this. I am convinced, in general, that the essence and purpose of this change is not what you have concluded in several sentences of the justification of this law. The essence and purpose of this change is to force laws which are contrary to constitutional order. We will be in this Chamber following the bill to process things that are contrary to the Constitution, and the paralyzed Constitutional Tribunal will not be able to take a position on this issue. The question is, do you know what's at the end of this road? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u396	Thank you. Please take the floor of Marshal Borowski. I inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that practically each of the speakers has exceeded the limit of 10 minutes. [[Augustine's Christmas Eve message...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! A lot has been said. The arguments are repeated, so I'm not going back to some of them. I answered them, but as you can see, either my colleagues did not listen or ignore them completely and do not want to respond to them. The point is to listen to each other and to refer to what the other person says. And if you don't, that means that these arguments are of a weak nature. Well, what this law is for, it has been mentioned many times. Senator Augustine was just talking about it. That's it. That's it. That's it. Anyway, why... Once again, I'm going to say that... it's really simple logic, it doesn't take much... How 3 judges dealt with cases, and the average time of one was about a month. I stress: average, because some were considered more quickly, and others longer. The 13-person composition must slow down the work three times. Consider that. [[Voice from the room: Two days a week...]] And it's not... it's not true, you're just saying stupid things, that's all. Don't do that, because you don't know that, gentlemen from the autopsy, you just repeat after someone. Don't do that, because this discussion doesn't lead to anything. I don't believe that smart-minded senators don't realize that. This is first and foremost. As far as certain other issues are concerned... I want to address them. Professor Seweryński, in answering questions, also presented his philosophy, his approach or certain dilemmas that determine. Indeed, this is a problem: the reliability and efficiency of the Court's operation. Yeah, well, what's 13-person squad... 15-person squad and unanimity? Well, that would be perfect honesty. But what about fitness? Of course, I show extremes. If we went in the opposite direction, it would be a one-man composition. Well, such a Court would be very efficient, but I doubt his judgments would be well received. What we have today is a compromise: the compositions are 5-person and 9-person or larger in case of more difficult matters that I have spoken of. The 13-person composition certainly provides greater reliability, but unfortunately the efficiency puts it to such an extent that it is an unbalanced system. And referring to Dr. Piotrowski Once again, I'm saying it's not allowed. I allowed myself to contact Dr. Piotrowski on this matter and he said clearly that of course the 13-person composition for all cases of finding the non-compliance of laws with the Constitution I'm skipping constitutional complaints, but that's another topic. It is a composition in which the efficiency will be negligible, and he absolutely does not support it. That's it. I have written down, like Senator Augustine, your statement: we must think about who the authority is to be. Well, that's a bad case, Mr. Senator. Democracy has long been discovered. From Montescius, the power must be divided, and it must control one another, otherwise it turns into a dictatorship. There must be independent courts, legislative authority and executive authority. And after World War II, I stress, it has been discovered that in order for democracy not to turn into its opposite, there is still a need for a system of control of the majority in order to respect the constitution. [[Voice from the room: Supreme Authority.]] This is not the supreme authority. It shall rule only in those cases which have been contested and only in those points which have been contested. And I can honestly say that during the period of the Court's operation, well, there were judgments that one liked, and others did not like it, but for a good cause, I do not remember that there were some horribly shocking judgments. For example, I did not like certain judgments concerning worldview issues, but I accept them. Well, that's the composition of the Court in terms of the worldview, and we have to accept that. Others did not like other judgments. Nevertheless, what Senator Jackowski presented here If the Court were different, there would be a different judgment in the OFE case. Well, I have to say, it was just an abuse. I don't really understand... Does Senator Jackowski care about a different sentence? After all, PiS voted in favour of this bill, supported it. [[I almost care.]] [[This is manipulation.]] No, no, it's completely manipulative that you care about the law. Well, either you're happy with that sentence or you're not. [[Talking in the O.R.]] By the way, Mr. Senator Jackowski, let me remind you that you spoke here about the fact that the Constitution states that the organisation and mode of work of the Court is governed by the law, and that in this connection the Sejm can determine everything. Well, I'd like to say that with regard to the Sejm of Art. 112 of the Constitution states that the internal organisation and order of work of the Sejm and the procedure for the appointment and operation of its organs are to be determined by the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm adopted by the Sejm. Well, the constitution, so to speak, didn't put her hands in there... And I remember when I passed it, it didn't occur to anyone here to determine how the Seym should choose different... Similarly, in the case of the Court, the assembly of Judges should itself adopt its rules of procedure. And here it suddenly turns out that we in this bill are speaking precisely which judge can choose how many candidates... how many can vote, etc., etc. Well, that's absurd. Of course, I know what it's done for, but it's just ridiculous. That's not what you do. For myself, for the Seym, for the Senate... Yes, then we would say, "Don't let anyone interfere." But as far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, of course, we will decide how to choose them. So it's not right, Mr. Senator. And finally... Mr. Senator, I don't know how you got this, Mr. Graniecki pulled a recipe out of his pocket and gave it to Mr. Kropiwnick. Mr. Kropiwnicki called him in, it's true, we all know that, but please don't make such suspicions! [[Please read the minutes of the committee meeting on 12 May, it's on the Internet...]] Yeah, yeah. So, sir, I've already had my troubles. Sir, I like to check things out because these twenty-five years have taught me that it's very easy to throw different numbers, accusations, suspicions, and that's how it goes. And then one after the other repeats and it lives its own life. So I contacted Minister Graniecki and Minister Graniecki categorically denies it. He says he didn't do anything like that and he's gonna ask you to apologize. That's not enough, he says, look at the transcript. Well, look at that. Minister Ziobro. Well, Minister Ziobro presents such a word, that if you squeeze it out or get it right, it gets in trouble. In the matter of security, I have proved undisputedly that the Court had the right to change its mind and to change its mind correctly. But note: Minister Ziobro hasn't said one more. In each of these cases, in which he rolled over the pages here and read... These were the Court's decisions for specific cases. In a specific case, the Court found that the security was not necessary and that it was not admissible. And in this case, he said it was acceptable and even necessary. Minister Ziobro wonders what the Court has so pinned down. What do you mean, what's up? On 3 December, the Court is to issue a judgment on the law, including a judgment to state what happened to those judges, and on 2 December the Sejm elects other judges and the President swears instantly. Well, that's a violation of the rule of law. Therefore, the Court says: wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a day, we will pass judgment. No, we won't wait. And that's why there was security. And it was perfectly justified. [[Time's up, Mr. Marshal.]] Thank you very much, it'll be five more minutes, and I'll tell the rest. Thank you. I'm done. [[Applause]] [[I'm in corrigendum mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u398	Please. [[In corrigendum mode.]] You're welcome, and I'd like to invite Senator Komarnicki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u399	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I have here a transcript of the session of the Sejm Committee. Maybe I'll come over 'cause it's gotta be read. [[Out of the way, please, just in the microphone.]] If you'll allow the marshal... [[You're welcome.]] I have here the minutes of the sittings of the Parliamentary Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Justice of 12 May 2015 and here is the following statement. Legislator Przemysław Sadłoń: In order to take account of this remark made by Minister Graniecki, provision for the article. 137 should read: the law shall enter into force 30 days after the date of publication, with the exception of Article. 108, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2016. Mr Kropiwnicki: Good. President Stanisław Przeczyk: Thank you very much. I understand that the Member is taking over this amendment. Member Robert Kropiwnicki: Yes, I am taking over this amendment. Thank you very much. [[The voice from the room: But what is it...]] [[But this is different.]] [[But that's not the point at all.]] [[Voice from the room: But it's not about...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We're going back...]] [[Voice from the room: Can take it out of your pocket...]] [[It's me, then, as a correction.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u400	I'm sorry, sir. I'm still voting for you. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But take it easy. I give the floor to the marshal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u401	That's not what this is about. The problem was this rule that said that in this mode judges would be chosen to replace those whose term of office expires in November and December, and that is not what we are talking about here. Here we are talking about the fact that since the Act provided for a period of three months for the submission of candidates, it would no longer have been possible to submit candidates and therefore the transitional provision should be as it sounded. But it was a long way from that second recipe that... [[Gentlemen of the Senators, return to this in your time in the discussion...]] No, no, no. It's about Senator Jackowski just admitting that it's unnecessary... for him to apologize to Minister Graniecki and that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u402	I give the floor to the senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll save my polemics and fit in 10 minutes to save time, because today, I remind you, it's Christmas Eve. I asked the Legislative Commission to put aside and calm our emotions, it is a pity that I lost in the vote, because we would have been home with families long ago, and we were coming here on 29 December, we were able to calmly consult on the many uncertainties that we heard about today from this stand and not only because they were also discussed in the Legislative Commission for 8 hours. That's too bad. Since I felt that the legislative committee should speak first of all about the members of this committee and the lawyers, and I did not take the floor, I would now like to share a few observations that I had quickly discussed with outside lawyers. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say today: what will happen if the Court does not receive 2/3 of the votes on the decision? Will the procedure be discontinued? What is the point of maintaining the Court in this situation? Next case. The Judge of the Court is to be elected by 2/3 of the votes. And if the Sejm doesn't choose, e.g. There's not going to be two-thirds of the votes, so are these elections going to take place? [[Mr. Senator, how else?]] But are we predicting how they're going to work... Because we don't know if there's gonna be 2/3... [[It has to be, Mr. Senator...]] There has to be a difference between this and that, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And yet, I apologize very much for the new provision in the Act that disciplinary action against a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal may be initiated at the request of the President or the Minister of Justice. I would like to remind you that, despite all this, it violates the independence of judges and gives new powers to the President, which violates the article. 134 constitutions. Your amendment of today to the Act abolishes at all We've been talking about this. In fact, it takes away the opportunity of the Constitutional Court to examine its constitutionality. I would like to say to the senators that this is a violation of all rights and, anything to say, a violation of the Constitution. Again, then, is the question: what is the purpose of this provision, and is this Court necessary then? Next case... [[I feel something that the senator wants to file a motion for the Court to liquidate.]] No, these records are causing... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, these records are lower... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]] [[Mr. Senator Dobrzyński, please do not interfere with the speech.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] I'll be brief... [[You're welcome. We'll hold the senator's word. We're not interrupting. Don't disturb the country.]] According to you, the complaints will be dealt with in the order of influence. This will cause that, for example. Today's action against the revised Constitutional Court Act will be dealt with in a few years, because the Constitutional Tribunal will have to deal with matters that are less important, but those that were the first. That's what it looks like today. And one last thing. Breaking the Constitution by stating that the party to the proceedings Read more: The government will be able to apply for review if it considers that the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal has been given in breach of the law. What effect? The government will not have to publish the judgments of the Constitutional Court. Dear Senators, Mr President, I would like to thank you for the very calm debate that took place in the Legislative Committee, but I would also like to thank you for the atmosphere in our House, other than in the Lower House. And to conclude, I have an appeal for you. Maybe on Christmas Eve, you can think about... [[And you will vote...]] Maybe... I don't expect them to vote... [[Don't tell me. Don't tell me!]] I do not expect them to vote as we expect, but perhaps my proposal, Mr President, Mr Professor, my request for a calming down of emotion, for a few days' break... Perhaps we could reach consensus, because most of my speakers, led by Mr President, agree that this proposal is not perfect. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u404	Thank you, too, Senator. Five minutes, so that's a very good time. Senator Gawada... [[Can I have a corrigendum?]] ...Adam Gawada, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will try to speak very briefly, precisely out of respect for the High House, but also very specifically, because the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal has been quite dramatic for some time, and the high temperature of this debate does not serve to deal with all the issues raised earlier, both during the parliamentary debate and today's committee meeting. But it is also astonishing that there is an elementary lack of self-criticism, because if we recall the bill that was being passed in June this year, it will be perfectly clear that already then President-elect Andrzej Duda called for such decisions, gross, exposing themselves to the charge of unconstitutionality, simply not to be taken. At that time, the senators were, I apologize for such a strong term, but he is deaf to this argument, to what was going on at that time, and it actually caused a very strong warning lamp, which led to these actions of the current coalition, the current parliament, and today the High Senate. But let's sort things out, because I think this is more important, especially at this very late hour when we are discussing the Constitutional Court. The Court is a judicial authority, but with a very, very special purpose, because it exercises the powers set out in the Constitution. The Constitutional Tribunal also enters into the powers of the legislative authority and its judgments in today's discussion have also been strongly emphasised It has an impact on the law. And today, the weight of the substantive discussion should be shifted to how to separate it. Because the fact that we have three divisions of power, we all know. But on the one hand, the election of Parliament, the Sejm, the Senate is made through open elections, and for this reason we have a responsibility as parliamentarians before the sovereign. On the other hand, by decision, already political, because by a parliamentary majority, the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal is chosen, and it is impossible to move on with indifference to how this is to be done... We can argue, we can present here, High Senate, various arguments, but we have to agree on one thing: if we adopt such mechanisms as in the case of such, I would say, standard judgments given by civil courts... We cannot refer them to the law in force, which is judged by the Court on constitutional grounds. After all, it could happen that the Constitutional Tribunal, working as a part-time judge, will make a final interpretation, rejecting an important bill. We must therefore consider how a rational assessment should be made in such situations. And I think that's what this bill is about. Because using this instrument in terms of compatibility or contradiction... And yet we assume that every bill is impliedly in line with the constitution, so it cannot be rejected by a simple, zero-one decision, which is mostly... Well, if out of 5 judges 3 were to be rejected... that is to say, the bill would be unconstitutional and 2 would not, then at this point we would ask what were the arguments of those two judges who disagreed. If we adopt a solution so that such important decisions as the decision to declare the law incompatible with the Constitution can be taken by 13 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and by a majority 2/3, we will launch a very strong security instrument in my opinion. Because if you don't get a majority like that, the bill is in line with the idea... it's about assessing constitutional compatibility. Today, the Constitutional Tribunal is being treated In many speeches it was strongly emphasized. It's like a final oracle. But in my opinion, the Constitutional Tribunal today should not be the final oracle because there is no such delegation. Moreover, the rules for the selection of judges so far point to the very political nature of these decisions. And while we are talking about the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal, in my opinion, it was illegal for the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to participate in the work, at every stage of their work, on the June Act. The fact that each group has the right to participate in the legislative process is obvious. But does he have the right to construct specific records and is that ethical? In my opinion, this was not entirely consistent with the ethical spirit and principles, I would say, the construction of legal order in Poland. And there are even more examples here. I would also like to appeal to Senator Rulewski, who spoke about agreement, about seeking consent. I think that it is not possible to condemn all the proposals contained in this Act in the Chamber. Well, it would seem that there are not a bunch of ladies and senators in this room, but the prophets, I apologize for that term. But if it were like you said here, this whole bill wouldn't be moving, because that would be a direct attack on democracy and so on. I've heard from many people here that she's unconstitutional. Well, I'm sorry, but it's the Constitutional Tribunal that can rule on the compatibility of one or another law, and the senators are already saying today that it is incompatible. You can't pass sentences before they fall. I therefore also call for an opportunity. Perhaps in six months we will make an evaluation and perhaps there will be an initiative of the Senate to return to the discussion of the Constitutional Court, but to the substantive discussion. Of course, the separation of this area of law from politics is very difficult, especially this matter affects the Constitutional Court, which really does not have any control barrier in our space, I will say, but there is no full delegation to question everything that falls by free elections. I therefore think that at this particular time, we should give ourselves a chance to accept this law and give the Constitutional Court a chance to work in such a composition, full composition.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u406	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u407	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll read it. Jurku, we're watching a debate. We know that the very important stage of Poland's life ends. Fight until the last minute. They'll vote you out, but the spirit of democracy won't kill us and scream. That's the kind of text I got a lot of. Just now from one of the important people in the country, I won't give you a name. Thanks for what you said. Today people register on the pages of history either as rapists of the Republic of Poland or as her proud defenders. Hang in there. Etc. Stasia, I want you to listen to me because I have a pen here. Remember? You know it says, "For Fedora, the Solidarity of the Railways." It's already wiped out... [[Voice from the room: It's wiped out...]] Please? [[It would probably be different now...]] [[Mr. Senator Dobrzyński, please don't argue.]] You're very wrong, sir. I don't know your credit for freedom. But if you look at my resume, it's in every encyclopedia and in Google. That's very kind of you. Okay? Now, don't bother me. [[You can read mine, too.]] No, I don't believe it, but okay. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[That wasn't pretty.]] Mr. Marshal, I can't... [[I've already paid attention. Once again, Mr. Senator, please...]] I won't pay any attention to you either, because it doesn't make sense. [[There's no point. Yes. You're welcome.]] Mr. Marshal, I don't have much to say about the actual state of law, which, as I say, happened here. Because I was at the Legislative Board meeting, I know it's a dispute about... [[Cell phone signal]] Next: Hold on to Fedor. Don't give in. Fight, fight, [[Joy in the Chamber]] So I know that this is a dispute between lawyers, and I'm acting like a citizen, an ordinary man who's supposed to defend the constitution as the highest good. Okay, that was me and my parents fighting for. There are streets... If you're from Podlasie... There's Alina Fedorowiczova Street and monuments for my mother... okay? [[I didn't know.]] There you go. Now you've found out. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And about three books she wrote about it. She was a hero and a soldier from that area. And I'll never be offended by you because I'm not offended by people who don't read enough about their nearest homeland. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Cell phone signal]] And now I'm gonna say... Mr. Marshal, I can't take your call. All the time... [[But it's not from me. It's not from me. It's from me.]] But it says: Fight Fedor, don't give in. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And now I'd like it to be taken very seriously. Namely, I will never argue with Staszko Rogut, because if it was necessary for him to drive with wagons with coal to Huta Sendzimir, and there was a railway strike, I asked: Stasiu, I say, get the case done, we need to explain to the strikers that it is worth it. We are facing a very serious crisis of Polish democracy here. I wish we could avoid this because of what I, my family and most of you have done here for her. We're probably not gonna avoid him because before this debate... (Phone ringing) Oh, my, that's... Even before this debate, Mr. Marshal, there were meetings on the streets that were going in a way, you can say, really clean and good. No one questioned the outcome of the election, only the way the case was handled. I tell you, I didn't have to fight for the entrance to the Sejm because I came in from 15th place; I came in, 2005, ruled by PiS, it's night, I'm coming to the meeting of Mr Kurski, who, of course, you fired from PiS, rightly... [[Fun in the room]] ...and does a resummation. You were a witness. Anyway, he's resummating. [[In the book, write it, it's not a matter of discussion.]] Wait, wait, but I'm comparing it to today's situation. This happened at night, of course, and we gave up the media and so on. [[So you did.]] And here's the thing: I'm asking Minister Herba why we're doing this at the rate that we're doing, and he's jokingly answering me that this situation is so important that it has to be done quickly. And I, being a man of logic, say that when a situation is so important, you have to think very seriously about it. Isn't that right, Mr. Counselor, Senator Silence of Krakow, who graduated from our university and a prominent lawyer, that I am right about this? But if we act like we're rushing like crazy that on Christmas Eve After the night we're sitting on it, there's got to be a reason. That's why it's breaking citizens. I'll tell you, it's very simple when someone takes it logically, they'll think this: If we want to do a bill on 500 PLN per child, it can really be a very serious problem. I'd like this bill to pass because my grandchildren will have 2,000 500 and I won't have to give them that money. It's just that they're coming... Mr. Senator Bierecki, as an economist, you know this is not such a simple bill. My colleague Terlecki, who is of course from a different thought group than I, has already said that it can be given to people so without tax, without entry, etc., but of course the minister has already made a mistake, he said it cannot be done. There are many such laws. Therefore, I'm coming to the end. I would like to say that I always start to look for fault in myself because that's how I was taught, but in situations where we undermine the integrity of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, the prominent, let's consider whether the integrity of each of us will not be undermined. I'm just gonna give you one last thing. I know that we voted in favour of a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, for Mr. Kotlinowski, who was with the LPR and proved himself, not on one side or another, but we had a case, and I personally introduced ours in the justice committee, let's call it, the candidate, because we said that unfortunately they were politicized... [[Cell phone signal]] It says "Fedor, finish 'cause you're bored. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then we ourselves, our committee thought he didn't deserve this choice. And this is democracy in the execution of people for whom Poland is the most important. Thank you very much. I wish you health, happiness and all the best, and you, Stasius, especially because you are a lovely boy from our region. [[Applause]] [[And they say to me, "Tell him they're calling me too."]] They're calling me to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u408	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an hour late, but... ♪ As you can see ♪ Everyone in a lively mood. [[In the morning, actually.]] Yes. I think that for Poland we are able to work without rest and at any time, as we do here. Mr. Senator Federovich... [[Fedorovich.]] I'm sorry if I twisted your name. [[From White Podlaski, you know...]] [[But, Senator, don't retaliate now...]] Yeah, not far. I assure you, this idea of 500 PLN per child for large families is a very good idea. It's not an expense. It's an investment. And that's the way to look at it. It's an introduction. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past few weeks, we have been concerned about this commotion around the Constitutional Court. Why is there a fuss? Because the Civic Platform feeds on conflicts, it can't function without them. She has to make a fuss, she has to run a complaint all over the world so that she can empathize her electorate with articles in Le Monde and other foreign-speaking newspapers that she is happy to quote. Ladies and gentlemen, such a thing as the crisis around the Constitutional Tribunal is not an unusual event in democratic countries. Not long ago in Italy only after a year and a half of work and 32 votes ended the crisis around the Constitutional Tribunal. So what? Martin Schulz called a European Parliament meeting to discuss the crisis and the threat of democracy in Italy? Or was there a European Commissioner teaching Italians about their Constitutional Court? This did not happen because Italians care about the image of their country and do not go to Germany for a complaint. We have heard a lot here about the authority of the Court, which we are supposedly violating here, trying to correct what has been wrong in this Court in recent times and what you have tolerated. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this authority of the Constitutional Tribunal was Judge Rzepliński who lost when he was sneaking in with the Sejm at night from meetings with the Civic Platform politicians. We saw this escape through the cracks of his cloak... That's where he lost that authority at the Constitutional Court. Senator Rulewski, who, three times I have noted, talked about crocodiles during this debate... Senator Rulewski was talking about the fact that, of course, the judges are apolitical. Yes, but Judge Rzepliński admits that he has views such as the Civic Platform. I understand that he currently does not have a Civic Platform ID in his pocket and does not pay a contribution to this organization, for which he is praised, but he has such views and confesses to them himself. And now we have a huge movement around the defence of the Constitutional Tribunal, around the defense of this Judge Rzepliński. I'm just waiting for this, when, I don't know, there's going to be a family of TOK FM radios, or the Gazeta Wyborcza clubs, to defend this democracy against Law and Justice. What's with all the gnashing on the bill? Or is it that the Constitutional Tribunal will rule in full court and it will not be possible to manipulate the selection of judges into individual cases? Maybe that's it? Or is it that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who earn more than 24,000 a month and have one hundred and twenty substantive staff supporting them in this task of case law will rule more than three times a month? If they had said so more often, this threat of paralysis by the Constitutional Tribunal, which the Senators of the Civic Platform have so much to say about us, would probably not have happened. More than three times a month, and the Court will act. The fact that the Court will deal with cases in the order of influence is, after all, the principle of every decent court. We have heard here that, after all, the Court should urgently deal with matters which will be urgent. And who is to decide this urgency? Are the applicants from the Civic Platform deciding on this urgency? That is the urgency of the Court's ruling, and we have recently seen it. Last time we saw that urgency... As a result of the Court's handling of cases in the order of their influence, it will not be possible to politically accelerate or delay the recognition of cases. Or is it that the Court will not be able to remove its judges from office and will do so to the Sejm at the request of the Court? At the request of this Court, the Sejm will do so. Or maybe, actually, ladies and gentlemen, the point is that the citizens of the Civic Platform are now nine, not a whole set... [[That's why you'll have fair sentences.]] The example of the German Constitutional Court is often cited here. Well, it is good practice in Germany that, instead of a outgoing judge who was indicated by a CDU recommendation or by an SPD, a judge is chosen from the same recommendation, from the same recommendation. That's how it works. And you wanted to create a Court, which was to consist entirely of people recommended, selected by the Civic Platform. And now you're screaming because you didn't make it. Merry Christmas! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u410	Thank you very much. Senator Sławomir Rybicki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm not gonna take all the time in ten minutes. I would like to refer to those who appeared earlier, in questions, but also throughout the debate, which accompanies the procedure for a law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act... After two years, in June, it was passed by Parliament. I would like to remind you that the applicant was former President Bronisław Komorowski, who sent this project to the Marshal's staff in late spring 2013. I would like you to know, and you have also criticised this pre-Parliamentary phase of the work, before sending the project to the staff, that you have taken part as a political formation, as a parliamentary club in the work at this stage before sending the project to the marshal staff. I'll tell you a story... I think I am a credible person because I was responsible to President Komorowski for, among other things, contacts with Parliament. The good practice that President Komorowski introduced was to consult experts with the heads of parliamentary clubs or with those who posted the clubs, considering that they could best and most competently represent the views of the club in the work on bill projects. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Professor Rzepliński, actually took part in the preliminary work at this stage, since the Court Act states that only the President can represent the Court outside. He took part in expert work and took part in consultative meetings, to which the president had just invited club presidents. Representatives of all clubs took part in these meetings. A colleague of Minister Ziobra, Andrzej Dera... Parliamentary Club Law and Justice was represented by Andrzej Duda, the current President of the Republic. I am talking about this because President Komorowski has tried to ensure that, in the case of laws which are of a systemic nature, they deal with the most important issues in the country... He felt it was worthwhile that, at a stage when the law had not yet fallen into this parliamentary regime, everyone could express themselves so that such major acts were beyond political divisions. Indeed, parliamentary clubs had received a draft bill before, and the invited representatives, including Mr Andrzej Duda, were present within the deadline. I have conducted these meetings, but I do not remember the law and justice representative being particularly active during these discussions, and he could, after all, propose legal solutions. Memory doesn't confuse me, I remember that during these meetings he wasn't particularly active. The president then decided that he would give all the clubs a chance to send their comments and proposals for statutory amendments in writing. And I guess memory doesn't confuse me. This can be checked in documents in the archives of the President's Office That the reviews sent the clubs SLD, your Movement, PSL. I do not recall, I would like to be wrong, but Law and Justice did not take the opportunity to influence the draft law on the Court at the level of preliminary work, when the project is still subject to simple legal processing. I was wondering why it happened. Is it because the Law and Justice, its representative, the competent figure involved in lawmaking and the law expert thought that the project was so good that it was not worth correcting? If so, why criticize this project at the moment on the part of the Law and Justice. Or was it an omission that caused you to be criticized and amended at the moment? If you were involved with this through your representative and the parliamentary club at the preliminary work stage, perhaps this would not be the problem today. Thank you for your attention. I would like you, when criticising this project, to also take into account the involvement of the Law and Justice in the creation of this project. Mr. Marshal, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u412	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Flork. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll use two comparisons. Ladies and gentlemen, Art. The 10th Constitution of the Republic of Poland is based on the division and balance of the legislative authority, executive authority and judicial authority. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get a table that has three legs. When one leg falls off, it turns out this table is gonna fall over. The only question is how he's gonna fall over. Will everyone hear it with a bang? Also what we're talking about right now, it's dangerous. Will he roll over slowly? Why slowly? Now I'm going to use the second comparison. Pretty soon, from 10 June to 10 July, the European Football Championship in Paris will take place. We're all gonna get excited. Ladies and gentlemen, the football team consists, as we all know, of 11 footballers, but there are 7 other backup players, so the team consists of 18 footballers and they only play twice after 45 minutes. As it turns out, the football player may be injured during the game. It may be such an injury that it will come off the field for a while, but it may also be such an injury that unfortunately someone will have to replace it. Now it is, ladies and gentlemen. Since the Constitutional Tribunal has 15 judges and has 13 judges, it can be said, compared to this football example, that we have two reserve judges. And now, as it happens, one game, the other game, the third game, and here, one case, the other case, the third case. Ladies and gentlemen, what happens when someone in this 13-person team gets hurt? Hopefully, knock on door, nobody gets hurt, but you get sick, you get sick for a long time, there may be other cases, but I don't want to talk about it, so that there are no such cases. If, in this connection, it turns out that there is no 13-person team, only 12-person team, then the matter will be clear: at the moment it is impossible to rule. [[But half of them can play.]] [[But what's the score?]] Soccer players can play the jackpot. That's right, that's right. [[Not even nine.]] [[The comparison didn't work.]] But the Court can't. If there's no 13-person squad, he won't be able to. So that the football players are in a slightly better position, ladies and gentlemen. Then this game can't be played. Maybe the next one isn't... Maybe it'll work. Well, maybe one of them is gonna work out. But as we add to that, ladies and gentlemen, the number of cases that will be dealt with in the order of applications, and I am convinced... One of you counted today, I think Mr. Marek Borowski... I think Senator Borowski was talking about these assemblies. If there were 15 judges, we could have five people, which is three teams. So you could play three games at the same time. The game would be faster, this game would last not a month as in the European Championships, but less. So that's the way it could be. ... And in this case, unfortunately, there is no possibility, because there must be 13 judges. Ladies and gentlemen, someone here has spoken of prophecy. You don't have to be a prophet here. I don't feel like a prophet, but I can tell you today. I'll tell you again, but I don't know if in five months' time, six months' time or a year's time, I'll tell you what I'm saying right now. That there's no chance and there's no way... The third leg will lean down and lean down... Will we at some point come to the conclusion that if this table doesn't fall over, we need to get it back on its feet? I'd be in favour of getting him back on his feet when he gets a little crooked. I'd be in favour of you guys rethinking all of this and putting it in a position to stand steady on three legs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u414	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I took the phone because I hope someone calls me, too. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, I will shorten my speech because there have already been many arguments and topics that I wanted to talk about. I would like to answer a few questions that have been raised during the debate. I think that those who have not yet slept in the Republic and are watching us have a good lesson in democracy, because this discussion compared to the one we saw two days ago is substantive and cultural. We bring an element of important knowledge about democracy and the role of the Constitutional Tribunal in the Republic of Poland. The question you asked, sir, I'd like to... It's about who and how much power he has in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: when there is a primacy of politics over the law, it ends badly. It was all in Europe and the world that ended badly. And I'm not going to develop that thread. After all, moving within democracy is realizing the limitations we have. All of us here promised, among other things, a constitution. The Constitution is the element we took an oath on. As a result, talking about how the constitution needs to be changed... Yeah, but there's the right mode for that. On the other hand, what is proposed is a change of constitution by the back door. I asked during this debate because I was not at the committee meeting, whether there was any, at least one, positive opinion on the proposed bill. I didn't hear about any. Minister Ziobro also did not provide any opinion that would be positive to the draft law. What I'm trying to say is that the lawyers on the bar attorney's board wrote... It's about what the idea of constitutional justice is. They write, as I said at the questioning stage, that I am not a lawyer, but I am very fascinated by the things about the functioning in the area of law, the issues of interpretation. The fact that the alignment of legal solutions to the programme intentions of the parliamentary majority is unacceptable in a democratic state. We often hear this: well, since we have been chosen, we can do anything we like with the Constitutional Tribunal. No, it's not. This kind of thing ends badly for you, ends badly for the citizens and ends badly for us. What I'm trying to say is that in the last term of office, the Civic Platform did... I think this is where Senator Gawada asked, so I'll answer. I also sometimes have, not to say, a big hangover, but sometimes I have, when I think about the votes from the previous term, I will give you just one example: President Komorowski's motion for a referendum. To this day, I feel guilty. I don't know how the other guys did it. Because we voted in favour of this referendum because it was ruining a certain custom in this country. And what we're talking about here is the spoils of democracy and the rule of law in the state. I would also like to say two words... I know that the voices are about to appear, that this is funded by various kinds of organizations, I mean those opinions that appear in the West. Because the country's opinions we know, there's a group of people represented by Law and Justice, there's an environment associated with it. Everything's okay here, according to the law. Of course, there is no opinion of lawyers other than the opinion of a lawyer, Minister Ziobra, and against this there is a lot of opinions of Polish lawyers, showing the incompatibility of the proposed law with the constitution. I would also like to say that this may not be important to you, but to me, as a Pole, it is important what they think about Poland in Europe, in the world. I think you're reading. Here's what I'm gonna say: when is the president, ma'am? I could say that you could be happy about this, from a political point of view, but how you look at the future of Poland and what you want to do should be worried. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that in today's interview Professor Gutowski, head of the District Bar Council in Poznań, said that in 1803 there was a similar discussion about who was more important in the United States. What did Professor Sewerinski ask here? And who is to have power in the country. And they established in 1803 that the executive and legislative authorities are among those elected in elections, but whether or not it is in line with the Constitution, nine judges elected for life. And that's where no one put up the arguments I'm hearing here. And I hear that suddenly the Constitutional Court will have fifteen judges recommended by the Civic Platform. But if, God forbid, it would happen now that there will be, I don't know, four or five judges recommended by the Law and Justice, for as many years... In eight years' time, the Constitutional Court will have its own judges recommended by Law and Justice. And then what? If we win the election in eight years, are we supposed to raise the scream that these are the people who are unworthy of sitting in the Court? No, it wouldn't be the rule of law, and upholding the Constitution is the foundation. Professor Gutowski speaks, referring these words especially to lawyers... [[Mr. Senator, because it's been ten minutes.]] Mr. Marshal, last sentence. [[30 seconds.]] Yes, sir. Professor Gutowski said that the Constitutional Tribunal has a duty under the Constitution to ignore the Law and Justice Act and to directly rule on the Constitution for non-compliance with the Constitution without a proposal. And so it happened in the United States in 1803. I hope that we will come to such democracy also in Poland, which I wish you dearly. I also wish you a merry Christmas and all the best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u416	Thank you very much. Now please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was very happy at the beginning of this term, because all senators were assured of raising the prestige of our House. I was the organizer of several conferences in the Senate. Last year, the Senate published a publication entitled "Directions of changes in the political position and function of the Senate," under my scientific editing and Professor Bishtyga, a summary of a very interesting conference, during which some constitutionalists admitted that the execution of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal was a very important role that the Senate had taken on itself and dealt with systematically since the very beginning of the previous term, i.e. 8 years ago... Already at the first or second meeting there was a change in the Rules of Procedure, so that there would be an appropriate legal basis. At this conference, several professors said that they were actually in favour of solving the Senate, but they changed their mind when they saw that the Senate was doing the job. Look, this is a very interesting publication. Even in the Legal Gazette, I was called the defender of the Senate, among others. because I was talking about the fact that there should also be a constitutional rooting of care for Polonia. I have acted, as many with Marshal Borusewicz at the head, strongly against the concept forbids measures and weakens the role of the Senate in this regard. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember here, from this speaker, because every President of the Constitutional Tribunal reported every year on the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal, thanked President Jerzy Stępień... I had great satisfaction because in the discussion I said that the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal were predictable and thanked me for this. He said it was a very important thesis. There was also a doctor, President Zdziennicki and President Rzepliński. And everyone from each side received applause, great congratulations and thanks for the beautiful work of the Constitutional Tribunal and cooperation in the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, all of a sudden it's gone. What's the matter, I'm asking. You're saying you're fixing it. I said, what are you fixing? There was no constitutional model for the choice of judges, because the previous law said three months of submitting proposals for candidates. So he actually had to do it the last time... But you guys made... Indeed, the Helsinki Foundation had doubts, but there was no... opinions were divided, but most were in favour of it being correct. You applied to the Court to examine the compatibility with the Constitution, as in the case of a few hundred cases we have dealt with here, and of which the senator spoke, among other things, when he said that he had admitted that even in his legislative activity he had led to some amendments being considered unconstitutional by the Court. It's a normal job. That's what the Constitutional Tribunal is for. What kind of assassination, ladies and gentlemen? The bombing started with this... If you don't accept the ruling of the Constitutional Court, that's an assassination. The normal legislative activity, which is corrected by the Court, because it is constitutionally called to do so, is not an act of any kind. After all, it was us, the Civic Platform, with your withdrawal, that we wanted to explain this problem. If so, we would like to review the Constitutional Court. I'm here to clear things up. Is this an assassination? But telling Minister Ziabra that it's impossible to secure... He also gives reasons why you can't suspend, confuses suspension, order suspension... It's totally awesome. Well, ladies and gentlemen, either we have the rule of law and we have all the opinions, all of which I specifically asked if there was one constitutionalist who would write polemicly against all legal authorities, including the National Judicial Council, who is the guardian of judicial independence and independence of judges, that is her constitutional obligation... She, the body appointed to do so, claims that these regulations will result in paralysis. You are surprised that this issue already has a global dimension... Well, there's the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, there's Amnesty International, there were today, and there are other NGOs. Everyone's unanimous saying... [[Voice from the room:...in June...]] There were presidents... After all, the President of Stępień was elected President of the Constitutional Tribunal by the sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński, who always thought it possible to agree or not to agree, but the finality of the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot be undermined. That's what you're forgetting. On the one hand, Minister Ziobro... For me, this is hypocrisy, because on the one hand, I ask you, he says very well, the Attorney General has stated that it is impossible to secure, and on the other hand he says that when it comes to this bill, the Attorney General, when he speaks clearly about unconstitutionality, is no longer authority. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's be serious. We'll end up contempting the law. Well, I'm sorry if everyone's clearly saying that the majority that the constitution is talking about... This cannot be added because this does not apply to the Sejm, this majority concerns normal judgments of courts, all: universal, military, administrative, Supreme Court. There's most of it. And so the courts and tribunals rule. And that's why he's... Adding and speaking, while everyone clearly claims that it's obvious... Saying it's legal... Well, ladies and gentlemen... In fact, students of the first year of law... That's contempt for the law. And we're a serious institution. Yeah, that's what I'm considering. And one more thing... [[Mr. Senator, because ten minutes...]] Just a little bit. [[That's very short.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you're talking about this... See: not only is it a matter of majority, not only a matter of thirteen, but also a question of the fact that the hearing should be appointed six months earlier... Look, six months earlier. And in order... Yes? Look at this. In this situation, the request of the President of the Republic, who... [[Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes.]] Last sentence. [[Ten minutes.]] I'm just gonna finish this thought. [[You're welcome.]] The president's request for preventive control becomes illusory, because in such a situation the president in order will be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] He'd have to at the beginning of his term, because there's absolutely no way... Well, ladies and gentlemen... So, please consider this question. [[Mr. Senator, it's over...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u418	Thank you very much, Senator. Now Mr. Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u419	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's 2:00 in the morning, 13th. Sometimes the numbers that are supposed to be bad luck are bad luck. And this could be a bad day for democracy, for the Constitution or for Poland. I didn't know, and in my previous term I was here for four years, that almost on a holiday, on Christmas Eve we will debate a very important point, it's true, but in this way. [[How? We're normally debating.]] Mr. Marshal, can I... [[Mr. Senator, please don't disturb Senator Dowhan.]] [[The voice from the room:]] I'm gonna give you a handkerchief because I have one if you're dripping. [[Don't start a discussion.]] I'd like to ask you not to bother me. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And how do we debate? That's how we debate. [[Voice from the room: Thanks to you.]] We debate in such a way that everything happens again in a hurry. It's happening again at night. Once again, you don't listen to reason. The voice of reason for serious people, serious institutions that crush everything you want to praise at the moment, because it's just an opinion, as we have heard many times. Well, that's the opinion, but the opinion of the authorities. The opinion of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Poland cannot be indifferent Unless the senator's going over her like that. But I'm not going through. And in what I read here, there is no opinion of praise or approval for what is happening here. Chairman of the Bar Council And then there are more points that are crushing what you want to say. Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights Okay, here's another one. etc., etc. National Judicial Council. Well, it's just opinions... I'm not a lawyer, but based on these opinions, I want to protest very strongly against what's going on here. The Senate's Legal Office didn't leave a dry thread on this whole project either. Everyone's saying negative. But it's just an opinion, as you said. What about our amendments? Of course, none has been accepted because it cannot be accepted, because you have a mathematical majority and whatever we do and whatever we say will not pass, because you are moving forward without looking at the voice of reason, at the voice of the opposition. I received my wishes today, received from President Andrzej Duda's greeting box. He wishes the joyful, hopeful and refreshing Christmases of the Lord. I hope, too, and I wish the President, I wish the Law and Justice that this hope does not go out at the very end, and that President Andrzej Duda does not sign this bill and listen to the voices of the people who go out on the streets, in the voice of the opposition, in the voice of the authorities. Thank you, all the best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u420	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krystian Probier. [[Let's wait for our people to get out into the streets. We'll count...]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't scare, don't scare...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u421	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm not a lawyer, but I'm convinced, like most of us, that the law is for people like me, that it's not just for lawyers. A few reflections, which I have noted here, I would like to present to you. Well, first of all, I respect authority very much and agree with the previous speaker that the greatest authority, if not for all Poles, is John Paul for the great majority. II. I agree with that. [[Voice from the hall: Saint.]] But there are other authorities. Certain authorities are important on the left side of this room, certain authorities, also due to the world view, are important for the right side of the room. And I would like to see the legal regulations that have been written in order to resolve disputes and ways of dealing with them. And as far as we know here, that's not all that's important in this dispute. Authorities are still needed to resolve such disputes. They could be different and by different perceptions. Perhaps my comments will not be so systematic, but I have noted the more important ones. One of the great speakers was talking about how you pull one leg off the table and three legs remain... [[Voices from the O.R.: Two.]] Two or three? The first version was three. [[Voice from the room: No, two.]] With four tables... [[The voice from the hall: It's about the three divisions of power.]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, a three-legged table.]] Three-legged is the most stable table, yes à speaking. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Exactly. [[Voice from the courtroom: And at the verdict...]] It is also mentioned that abroad, there is information about what is happening here. Well, I have to say, I haven't met, I'm even a little concerned that I don't have any information about what the press in Mongolia or the Kiribati islands is writing, but maybe it'll come to that. I have some remarks for Senator Rulewski. In his speech, he was very worried that citizens had no impact on lawmaking. Well, I'd like to say that's not true. Such a citizen, Judge Professor Rzepliński was involved. In other statements, it appears that Senator Borowski That such a procedure is normal. I also noted Senator Pociej's speech. He stated that nowhere in the Constitution was it stated that the Court could not rule on its case. But in contrast to this claim, it can be said that nowhere in the Constitution is it written that it can. Another case, this time to Senator Borowski. He expressed great concern that if these cases were dealt with in order at the Court, a significant number of minor cases could delay the Court's action. Excuse me, if these are small things, I understand that those that do not require a lot of effort or not as big as big things that require effort, resources and time. The question of the choice of three judges. 2 judges were chosen incorrectly, 3 correctly. Well, in my understanding, it's obvious that since these judges were chosen according to faulty procedures, Even if 3 correctly and 2 incorrectly or vice versa If the formula is defective, the choice cannot be correct. And why do I say that? There's a common sense formula that can't be partially unfresh. I'm sure we've heard of it. Here's another thing. No one in this room is gonna convince me that most 2/3 isn't the majority. It's obvious, too. Now maybe I'll go back to Senator Rulewski's statement again, and I've been taking notes. Well, I'm very upset about your pessimism. Here, you're hitting big tones. And before that, too. I noted that you were talking about a black night that would collapse. I associate the black night clearly with martial law. Today you started with a nasty message. I was scared. I thought someone died. Luckily, that didn't happen. But I even agree with some of your comments, especially the use of coherence, e.g. I don't know what you're talking about. I can agree with that. For the release of the atmosphere, Mr. Senator Rulewski, let me say this: I send my regards to Gliwice, the city leader of the Extraklasa. And I hope that's true for those June world championships you mentioned, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u422	Thank you very much, Senator. Now you have the voice of Senator Andrzej Spider. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u423	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! When I listened to this discussion, I could even say, light arguments in the Seym, in the Senate, the noise in the press, those protests that are connected with the Constitutional Tribunal, the words of the poet Stanisław Wyspiański reminded me: "You are walking through the world and giving shape to the world through your actions. Look into the world, into the world of shape, and you will see your guilt. When addressing these words of the poet, referring them to the institution we are dealing with today, you can say this: Dear President, Professor Rzepliński and the other Presidents and Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, carry out an objective analysis of the judgments you have taken, and you will see how you yourself have made the Constitutional Tribunal rotten, rotten, corroded pillar of democracy. The Constitutional Tribunal should appear to us as an institution that upholds democracy, upholds the Constitution, and has been transformed, through the actions of the Presidents and Judges who form the Court, into an institution that denies the guardian of democracy and the Constitution. Does society see in the Constitutional Court a defender of order and order in the country? Does he see him as a guardian of the welfare of the nation's citizens? Definitely not. Surely many who think about repairing the Republic of Poland see it as a defender of the prevailing agreements. Did that perception come out of nowhere? Is the recent events around the Court an act of God, or the outcome of the actions of those who this Court creates, with the President in charge? I have no doubt about it. It is also missing from Professor Janusz Kawecki, who in an open letter to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Professor Andrzej Rzepliński notes that the beginning of the whole course of the current events is situated in the previous term of the Sejm, when the parliamentary majority of this year wanted to take over the Constitutional Tribunal. Professor Janusz Kawecki writes: "I regret to admit that you and at least two judges, Stanisław Biernat and Piotr Tuleja, working with you at the Constitutional Court, significantly influenced the formation of this law. This is confirmed by the records of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and Human Rights at that time. I also recall your commitment to torpedoing the decision of the Sejm in order to improve adopted in June this year. Laws. The spirit of inconsistencies in the assessment of the Sejm's laws has also been activated by your subsequent decisions. First of all, you decided on 18 November this year that the Constitutional Tribunal's examination of the matter of compatibility with the Constitution of the Polish Republic Act of June this year. will be held at a full meeting. In your statement of reasons for this decision, you stated that major systemic issues related to these regulations. Then, when it was necessary to exclude the Lord and the two judges mentioned above from the court dealing with the problem, a decision was taken to qualify the case for the formation of 5 judges. However, the substantive grounds for determining the formation of the court have not changed at that time. The decision to change the composition of the ruling from full to five persons in the qualification of the case determined by you on 18 November this year. infringed the Constitutional Tribunal Act. You did not provide a substantive reply to the question put forward by the Prime Minister's Office. Professor Kawecki further recalls that the Court had previously taken up and expressed its position on matters which were not his competence. It says: "It is about assessing the resolutions of the Sejm concerning the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal." Anyone who knew the relevant provisions of the Act knew that the Constitutional Tribunal had entered into proceedings which were not in his jurisdiction. Recently, we could read the statement of these observations in the position of the Attorney General, which clearly stated that the Constitutional Tribunal had no right to rule on the resolutions of the Sejm, and at the same time recalled that in 2001 the Constitutional Tribunal itself expressed such a position. I give in this letter only the most important of the events taking place in the Courthouse, so I will define it. Even the above-mentioned facts clearly show that you, by engaging emotionally in a political dispute about the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, are detrimental to it, because it leads to a reduction in the authority of this institution in the public opinion. And other judgments, not those taken by the current president and the current judge, but earlier, which society certainly sees as not defending him, his rights, his good, but defending the existing agreement... This negative assessment of the Constitutional Court came from judgments adopted, such as those relating to vetting. Come on. On 11 May 2007, judges considered, for example, that it was unconstitutional to include all researchers, journalists, members of the board and supervisory boards of listed companies and banks, auditors, tax advisors, heads of non-public schools, members of the sports union authorities. Similarly, they overturned the provisions providing for penalties for failure to make a judgment statement. They also blocked the creation at the Institute of National Remembrance of a catalogue of secret collaborators and operational contacts of the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic and the publication of this catalogue and many other regulations. The overthrow of the vintage was remembered by the Court of many Poles. If a simple thing like a list of agents is inconsistent, according to the judges, with our constitution, either the constitution is useless or the judges play dirty. Or both. And before that, there was a 1998 verdict when the Constitutional Tribunal stated that in order for the court to consider someone as an agent, there must be a total of 5 reasons: cooperation must be secret and conscious, connected with operational information acquisition by the services, relying on contacts with them and specific activities of the person concerned. The criteria are so high up to such an absurd level that almost no agent fits them. As a result, the Court and the courts brought us to a level where it should be considered that UB and SB agents in Poland were not actually present. Another example, which is very significant, that the Constitutional Tribunal is involved in the current policy, is to take a position on the OFE case. After all, in the statement of reasons, the Constitutional Tribunal took into account the state's financial situation and justified theft, justified theft of 150 billion PLN by the State to its citizens. After the defeated presidential elections, the ruling coalition tried to secure itself in case the PiS won. I give the floor to Rafał Ziemkiewicz. The Constitutional Tribunal was to be such a security. The Civic Platform had a very concrete plan in June, although based on the assumption that the PiS would not obtain a majority in the Sejm, and could be effectively weakened by continuous obstruction. The Ombudsman who is elected together with the left will sue, who is elected jointly with PSL, the Court of Justice has blocked and annulled. At the right time, he will strike a decisive blow: he will call off President Duda under any pretext. 'Cause that's what... [[Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes, so please...]] I'm the one who's gonna use those five minutes and then... Is that okay? I'm just gonna finish. I'm almost done. [[You're welcome.]] He's gonna cancel under any pretext of the president. Dudu. 'Cause that's what it is. The possibility of dismissing the president, previously in constitutional order, was the essence of June's changes. And if the PO hadn't overstepped and hadn't been tempted for two extra salaries. Although the two writers would have reached the Constitutional Court in December, nothing would have changed, they would at most have written separate sentences... [[Mr. Senator, time's up.]] ..the installation of this bomb under Andrzej Duda would have worked. To conclude, I believe that the reduction in respect and prestige of the Constitutional Tribunal is primarily the result of judgments taken by the judges of that Court. And do not protests, demonstrations about the destruction of democracy, the restriction of freedom, the violation of the Constitution, the dismantling of the Court sometimes take place according to the slogan of the Court's assassins? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u424	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Alexander Bobko, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, about the arguments behind this law and against it has already been said almost everything, and several times now, as Professor Seweryński said here, we are approaching this point when each of us will have to decide, taking responsibility for how he will vote in a moment or in a time... It can't be ruled out that, like the colleagues on the Platform who admitted that they had some feelings for each other, that at those important moments they had voted so... Let's see how we feel. We'll be six months after that vote. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to encourage us, despite the late hour, to consider for a moment what follows from the fact that we are here proceding, from this bill, and what awaits us after New Year's. For me, from what is happening here, there is a moral or obvious thesis that the Republic and the law in Poland need to be repaired. [[A big one.]] They need a big fix. I think, for all of us, regardless of our divisions, there's an obvious thesis that the way we act... I can't go on like this. Now, I don't want to go into thinking about who's responsible for this, because we can move our arguments, but repair can somehow be just common. And I would like to say here to myself and to my colleagues that, in my opinion, this repair will not be possible in the fight, it will not be possible to do so by impertinating one another's evil intentions. And here, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, from the very beginning, we have been accusing ourselves of bad intentions. You are impputing us, I do not know why we want to overthrow democracy, that we are leading to dictatorship. These are incomprehensible and hurtful insinuations for us. Luckily, not from everyone. They are falling because I have noted a few statements, even Senator Grodzki, who started from the fact that we should assume that our intentions are good, and this also appeared in several statements from your side, from our side also... But it's different on both sides. We're accusing ourselves of bad intentions, the state... I don't know if you are, but... the whole of Europe is already talking about these bad intentions of ours today. Well, you might wonder why, because what happened after a month of power, when the government hasn't actually sat well in the chair, the whole of Europe says that democracy is at stake in Poland. So let's get off this path of imputing ourselves with evil intentions, because, again, the repair that is necessary can only be done in a certain community, not in combat. I think there's a lot more to it than that... We don't have a lot of time, but maybe I'll talk about two more... quality laws. Ladies and gentlemen, many words have been made about the fact that the Court has lost its authority, lost its authority. Well, unfortunately, that's what we've been doing these last few days, and I'm sure we've been contributing to that, too, together. However, ladies and gentlemen, the Court has already become, not only because of its actions, but also because of the quality of the law established in Poland, another chamber of parliament, because today, when laws are passed, it becomes almost obvious or certain practice that these laws almost automatically go to the Constitutional Court. After all, this is not a normal situation, there should be precedents, some extremely difficult cases, and today actually we find that the Court will go to everything and de facto the Court will be the last Chamber of Parliament. That's how I see it. Maybe... The matter of the threefold division of power that so many refer to here And rightly so, for several centuries. This is one of the basics of the system in Europe... but this right principle of three divisions of power is diluted not only by the matter of the Court. I myself am living proof that the relationship between the legislative authority and the executive authority is at least blurred. Today, looking at government activity... The government is preparing most of the bill projects, the government, to do anything, it can't just do it, it just has to design the bill and then it can do something. This is not a normal situation. Is that a three-part division of power? You could keep it going, but it's late. Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you, especially in this pre-new year's time, to reflect, to autoreflexia also, and to myself and to my colleagues, because... because in this way, as we do here, it is impossible in the long run. I'd like to hope that the Senate's authority maybe... maybe there's some role in this, the Senate, for us to stop this chuckle dance. What I wish for and what I wish for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u426	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. Five minutes, even less. [[Four minutes 50.]] Yeah, that's four minutes 50. That's what we're gonna do. You're welcome. Oh, it's too soon. Wait a minute, I'll zero it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll be honest with you, I've slept a little bit, but Mr. Senator. Bobko woke me up. He woke me up with his toots. One thesis was that the government couldn't work because it had to prepare laws. Well, you can't. The government is acting under the law under the laws. Well, he has to prepare them, he doesn't have... Second, Mr. Senator... [[Well, he doesn't have to do everything.]] ...Bobko was polite to say that this is some strange situation: the bill is accepted, and then she goes to the Court. Well, there's no such thing. I don't know what it's gonna be like in this term, but in the previous term, 700 laws were passed. To the Court, maybe 8%, maybe 10% from this, and this, ladies and gentlemen, let's face it. Because we know what the legislative process looks like in our country to a significant extent is our fault, not any malice and God knows what. So I don't see any problems here. But Senator Bobka's main question was this: but what is this screaming about, Europe is already talking about it, but what is happening? Well, then, Senator and Ladies and Gentlemen, I'll tell you again what's going on. The President and the Government do not execute the judgments of the Court. It's just that. First, the president doesn't execute the constitution. He doesn't swear the judges who have been elected. He doesn't refer the case to the Court if he has reservations, he's just waiting. When he learns that the Court will consider this, he takes a vow from the judges the day before, leading to a horrible pat at the moment. To a monstrous pat. So it's happening. And now please answer me the question: do you imagine that for example. in Germany, which everyone calls for, and from different sides, the federal tribunal makes a decision, and the government says, and we will not print it. We can't print it because we don't like it. Or that we're not gonna do it. Yeah, we're not doing this... [[Voice from the room: Finally printed...]] Oh, come on. They finally printed it out. Well, they printed it because the D.A. already took care of it. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: After the time.]] But it's not about whether they've finally printed or not, it's just unthinkable that in a democratic country, about traditions and about legal civilization, these things have happened. That is why Europe is astonished. Especially since she is not used to such things happening in Poland. I think that Poland in this respect, legally, presented itself relatively best of all demoulds. And all of a sudden, it's completely different. Well, it's happening. And now one law, which was adopted, has been largely overturned by the Constitutional Tribunal. Minister Ziobro spoke very much on this subject today, how this law really looks like, the same thing he told us earlier, justifying that law, and of course the Court overturned it. And this bill, let me repeat, carries serious risks. Even the country that you say has waited, we will see, and you are not sure that these dangers are not present. So don't be surprised that the world is interested in this. And here shouts are about to rise, also here in the benches: here is Poland, our government, we are sovereign, we will not be dictated here!... etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a misunderstanding. We're not... Then leave the European Union. I repeat: exit the European Union. Step out of the Council of Europe. Why are we there? We were there signing certain... [[Voice from the hall: Sounds like Moscow...]] Okay, sir, that's what you might think. You and Moscow are always... [[Voice from the room: How to go...]] I don't know. Do you speak Russian? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Well, then I don't know who to go. [[Mr. Marshal, 20 more seconds.]] Yes, sir. I'm almost done. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we're not an island. We signed treaties, we signed agreements and standards, and we're supposed to respect them. And if the senator wants us to step out of these organizations, then bring in a draft resolution. And we're gonna debate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u428	Thank you very much. Exactly in time, Senator, thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Voices from the room: 4 minutes 30 seconds.]] Don't give me a hint, because I know how much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u429	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to add some facts to this discussion. Namely, as you know perfectly well, the dogma of the final judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal has been since 1999. From 1997 to 1999, and thus at the time of the new constitution, the Sejm, by a majority of 2/3 of the votes, could reject the verdict of the Constitutional Tribunal. This shows that there may be different approaches to this issue. And coming from this example I don't want to make any more arguments here, because it's late. I would like to address the High House with such an appeal. At the moment, a Constitutional Commission will be set up in the Sejm, which will examine the project submitted by the group Kukiz 15. This proposal would provide an opportunity to amend and clarify the Constitution in this respect, in which, as experience has shown so far, it was not perfect. I say this in the context of the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. And I think that when the emotions fall and when the moment of reflection comes, then there will be an excellent opportunity to sit in this committee in the Sejm. I mean different political environments, different clubs. And to be a forum for a serious debate on the Constitution, because keeping what is now or in this form, as you can see after the events of the last six months, will be very difficult. And that is why I think that this is a rational proposal that will somehow clarify our legislation in this area. Finally, I would also like to point out that this dispute has, however, taught us something. He taught us all, I think, to think about the functioning of the 1997 Constitution. I would like to point out that Aleksander Kwasniewski, the former President, who has been preaching the thesis about the inviolability of the Constitution over the years, at the moment he has verified his view, when he said that some thought should be made in this regard. Maybe it's time to grow up to that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u430	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, one sentence dedicated to Senator Borowski. Rules of legislative technique §10: the same terms are used for the determination of the same terms, and different terms are not meant by the same terms. That's à by majority, by relative majority, by absolute majority, and so on. Now, to the point, I'm going back to basics. I believe that the key question, the key issue that has been raised here, is the question asked by Professor Sewerinski: who is the authority in this country? Someone's gonna talk about the three divisions of power, mutual inhibition, suppression, but there's one organ, one institution that's not controlled by anyone. This is the Constitutional Tribunal. The question is, is this the way it's supposed to be? Well, maybe so, perhaps there should be a power that is not controlled by anyone and in the design of the constitution's creators is the last line of defense. Once it fails, once everything starts to fall apart, the system, the Court will protect us. And maybe you would, the Court would have... I mean, defended you, but before that, you made some mistakes. These errors have led the Court to lose its authority, and the closer it is to the present moment, the more and more quickly this authority has lost its authority. It started a long time ago, I suppose, right after the bill was introduced. Namely, the Court began to take over certain functions which are not in the Constitution. A body that makes sure that the whole system, actually not the system, but the building of the law is in line with the constitution, should observe the constitution itself, or act in the playing of the constitution. [[It's a deal. It's a ……]] And that's also what the doctrine is talking about. Of course, here we argue in doctrine... maybe not us, because I'm not a lawyer, but... [[It's a big deal.]] [[Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me.]] It's the doctrine that says that some judgments... [[But it's specific.]] [[Please don't interfere with your free speech.]] ...some judgments with the so-called complex structure of the operative part, i.e. judgments of scope, interpretation, application and judgments of loopholes in the law, the Court should not issue, because there is no constitutional basis for this. The question is, is it right that the Court gives such judgments? Well, until he has authority and when he is able to convince us, it means to us society that he is working properly, it may be so, because it really accelerates the procedure in some cases, makes this procedure more precise or this sentence is more precise. But unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, something has happened lately. This authority is no longer what it was. The Court began to lose this authority because of the operation of the previous coalition, but also because of the actions of some of its officers. Here it was widely described, we will not go back to this story. And what's the effect? Well, this last line of defense, this body, which is the final judgment as to whether a given act is constitutional or not, and which should be infallible, independent, impartial, and apolitical, ceases to be such at the moment. He's starting to be wrong. That's what we've all heard here. We can forget about impartiality and apoliticity, maybe not the Court, but certainly some of its officers, those who represent the Court. It's just... [[Contact!]] ...stopped being... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Just one thing in particular...]] You can say that, but... [[But, Senator, please don't disturb me.]] If it's not concrete, then the question is, what's concrete? [[Don't disturb me!]] Well, you can... [[Please don't disturb me!]] ...screaming, trying to scream it, clapping it, but the fact is: the Court is no longer infallible. The Court is no longer impartial. The Court was no longer apolitical. He can't protect you anymore. And indeed... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...there are two possibilities. Either we continue this process of retreating this body, weakening its authority, or we will try to correct it. But not on the same terms as they've been so far. Those terms won't come back. [[We're measuring time.]] It's okay. ne vrati. [[He's not coming back.]] It's just that. And yet, in order to convince you that it is true that the situation has changed, I will return to this sentence, which I have already mentioned, of this well-known judgment of December 3rd. This sentence is supposed to be a sentence within the scope, namely... I'm going to quote it again: Art. The 137th Act of Section 1 of the Constitutional Tribunal Act is, of course, in so far as it concerns judges of the Court whose term of office expires on 6 November 2015 is in accordance with Article. Paragraph 194. 1 of the Constitution, and in so far as it concerns judges of the Court whose term of office expires accordingly On 2 and 8 December 2015, it is incompatible with Article. Paragraph 194. 1 of the Constitution. Apparently, it's a range judgment, but it's not really a range judgment. I ask you, this is seen in the Court's explanatory memorandum, because, in so far as the Court justifies it, and rightly so: "It can be considered that during the legislative work on the Constitutional Tribunal Act and at the time of its publication it was not yet known when the President would order the elections or even more so when he set the date for the first sitting of the Sejm VIII term of office... And that's where he concludes: "Also with this arrangement." Previously, there's a pretty long reason why it has to be like this. The term of office of the two Judges of the Court, which fell on 2 and 8 December, was terminated after the entry into force of the 8th term of office of the Sejm. The same reasoning and conclusion about these three judges, supposedly properly appointed, is no longer in place. The Court did not prove what it put in the operative part. He just skipped the evidence. Because if this evidence were done correctly, it would simply be against the conclusion of the operative part. It's very simple. Please read the reasons for this. And to convince you more, I'll ask you again, again. That sentence was on December 3rd. Like the same sentence. it would look, as far as the operative part is concerned, if it were issued e.g. July? What would be the range then? [[Oh, that's a good question.]] [[What if Grandma had a moustache?]] The question is what the ranges would be then. [[That's a good question.]] Well, that sentence isn't really a range sentence, that's... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[No, no, Mr. Senator...]] ...that's what I'm going to call him, the first probabilistic-futuristic sentence. [[That's a very good question.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a simple matter: if the Court is able to prove where it got half of this sentence, as if it were in scope, then in my eyes it will regain at least part of the authority. I'm not talking about the performances of President Rzepliński in the media. But if he doesn't prove it, then we just have to do something about it. We're over the hill. We need to fix this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u432	Thank you very much. And Senator Jan Filip Libicki, please. [[Ay, Filip...]] [[...my heart!]] [[Voice from the room: There are no such people as the two of us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm short. First of all, I think every page uses a slightly different word to describe what's going on. One page, or coalition, is about repairing... [[Repair.]] ...we are talking about paralysis, but really, as we look at it carefully, we can say that there is a slow change in the constitution. The Constitution can be changed in three ways. First of all, the election can be won by a constitutional majority. It didn't happen, it's obvious to all of us. Secondly, it is possible to change the constitution by including a constitutional majority in Parliament. Is it happening or isn't it happening? It's hard to say. This joint initiative of Law and Justice and Kukiza15 would indicate that this may be the situation we are dealing with. Of course, the question is whether this is done on the basis of consensus and majority building, whether this is done on the basis of buying parliamentarians. I don't wanna get ahead of myself. I don't know what it's like. I'm talking about the technical side. There is also a third way to change the constitution. These are such partial changes in individual laws, so that without this majority, however, they will lead to such a change. And that's what happens to me. And this is not a normal and proper way to change the constitution. That's the first line. Line two. We received a number of opinions at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, and we received a crushing opinion from the Legislative Bureau. I don't remember, and I've been in the Senate for five years now, such a crushing opinion. [[We're all alive somehow.]] Of course, Professor Sewerinski says that this is an opinion... It is true, and yet, as far back as I can remember, I do not recall that we have ever received such an opinion. More even It did not appear in those materials that I was looking at, any opinion that would prove this thesis and those solutions for which the ruling majority is in favour today. At the level of the Sejm, at least there was such a thing, the opinion of the Professor Habilitated appeared. I don't remember the name of Warciński, the current new director of the Sejm Analysis Office. There wasn't even this here, which means there wasn't even something that would be a pretext for you, a fig leaf, as he called it, something that could be covered up by the next steps. Question three. I think it's all working out and creating a climate. This is where the thesis came from, shortly before my performance, that it's a bit of a waste of time to write laws, because you have to rule. It seems to me, and it is clear to me that this is a decision as regards the law on amending the Constitutional Court Act, which was taken by President Kaczyński. Within this climate, I believe that such solutions will grow. And I would like to say so much, and I have already said this at the meeting of the Legislative Committee: it seems to me that at the end of this process we will have to deal with a situation where also the rights of parliamentarians, Members and Senators, according to the same philosophy, can be limited. I would like to say that, as we are protesting today, as I am protesting, against these changes in terms of the location and functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal, so if we are dealing with restrictions on the rights of parliamentarians, I will also protest, I promise you. Finally, the last two cases. I didn't ask the rapporteurs that question, so maybe I can't address them specifically to someone and demand an answer... But, as I understand it, the President also retains the right, by virtue of these changes, to preventively examine the compatibility of laws with the Constitution. What happens if the President, in a preventive manner, directs such a bill to the Court and does not receive 2/3 of the votes in the vote? Does he have to sign it or not sign it? Because, in fact, in previous solutions, the ruling was a clue to the president what to do. Now, Mr. President, on the basis of the amended rules, that's how I understand them. It will be able to refer the law to the Constitutional Court and not receive an answer on what to do with it. [[The president doesn't have time.]] And one more thing. Every now and then, and rightly so, the Civic Platform in its previous term began maneuvers around the Constitutional Tribunal. Yeah, that's right, we admitted that mistake. But it's like someone stole 5 zlotys on a tram, and in return, the other party had the right to kill someone else with a crowbar. Well, he has no right to kill someone else with a crowbar. [[Oh, that's too much.]] And last but not least, I would like to tell Senator Fedorowicz that because the second part of Senator Czerwinski's statement came out in concrete terms, I will not pass on Senator Fedorowicz's request for specifics because he appeared in the second part. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u434	A point, and that's a very important point. Thank you very much, Senator. [[The candle's gone.]] Senator Jan Dobrzyński, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, we're almost there.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u435	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'd like to go back to history. Well, President Duda asked the representatives of the Civic Platform not to introduce laws. President Kaczyński, too, after winning the elections, invited all the groups to work for change, good change, development of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you acknowledge that the Constitutional Tribunal is a political body. It is elected in Parliament, so it is natural that it is a political body, and the last attitudes that Mr Rzepliński particularly represents, clearly indicate. And now I'd like to go back to history. Well, it seems to me that in 2005 the situation was quite good for our country, could run a coalition It was called the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice. This gave the constitutional majority and we could really change our country for the better during this period. For these eight years, I have judged the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL very negatively. Surely, if there was such a coalition, this would not be the case. We would be much, much further away, we could really change ours for good. Well, unfortunately, it didn't work out that way. I have my theory about why it didn't work out. Someone from the outside obviously wanted this coalition to not happen. The speeches I've heard here, I just... I'm very happy with them. They were very smart. Mr Czerwinski, Mr Jackowski and Mr Czarnobaj. A very important statement in my opinion, because it was clearly acknowledged that the Platform made a mistake and that it all started with this. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in a situation similar to that of 2005. Many Senators of the Civic Platform show that agreements for a good Constitutional Tribunal do not want. For part of the Platform, this is a dispute that is needed to build a political backbone. It's just, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, you're making a very, very serious mistake, because you're behind modern. [[Voice from the room: Before them...]] This is a political formation that would gladly replace you. Cooperation for a good Constitutional Tribunal is essential, also necessary for the Civic Platform, if we consider it a good coin to be a word about taking care of legislation in Poland. I repeat: the current Constitutional Court is political and has no authority. Mr. Rzepliński especially lost him... If we're gonna fix what is undoubtedly to be fixed... We as Law and Justice will do it ourselves, but it is very possible that it would be easier if we did it together with the opposition, and this opposition to talk is certainly the Civic Platform for us. I sometimes feel that... I don't know why, ladies and gentlemen, but you can't go out in the election campaign. You did not stand up as an adversary, a political competitor of Law and Justice, but were motivated by resentment and even hatred in some cases. It's not good. You need this position in my assessment to verify and work to improve our law. I'm sure there's a lot of work to be done here. It is very possible that at some point the sobriety will come, because after all, the situation, which is now and for four years, is stable. Some comments from colleagues from the Civic Platform are a little optimistic. I wonder what option of thinking will prevail in the Civic Platform. I understand that internal elections strengthen political language, but it is worth considering it, it is worth working for the Republic and it is worth coming out of this crisis, which is connected with the Constitutional Tribunal. And now, just a little bit, when it comes to... I didn't like Senator Borowski's statement, but apparently that's what Senator Borowski thinks. As for this voice of the European Union, it must be said, ladies and gentlemen, that none of our prime ministers criticized the NATO state as openly as some of these presidents or prime ministers do. We don't agree to that. You all know very well that certain media centers, by providing certain messages, certain information, simply highlight them. There are statements of how one of the senators quoted such as navy shirts, bombings, terror... that's not here and that's not gonna happen. This is for our country as a whole, not for our formation... Like I said, we'll be fine. But this information sent from Poland to Europe certainly does not serve the whole country. It is worth considering and it is worth working together to resolve this crisis and this conflict. If there is good will on the part of the Civic Platform, it will now be an opportunity to do so and not repeat 2005. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u436	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Andrzej Biesiołek will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u437	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I, respecting the time of all of us, was not to speak, but I was intrigued by a fragment of Senator Czerwinski's statement. In fact, I would like to ask him a question about this passage. Well, the senator, looking in that direction, said: The Court will not protect you anymore. [[We're not gonna hurt you.]] And I'd like to ask... Because if he's gonna defend us, it means someone's ambushing us. I'd like to ask who it is. If the senator has that kind of knowledge, you can give it to her. Thank you very much. [[You got yourself into this mess.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u438	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to two statements. Very briefly, I promise. To the statements of Senator Czerwiński, who said: it is unknown what the bill would look like, this June, if it had gone to the Court earlier. In fact, we don't know and we'll never know. But since the senator has introduced speculation and probabilistics here, let me have some fun this way too. You have introduced as many as 5 judges in accordance with the Constitutional Court's ruling unconstitutionally. With this novel, this entire bill has been amended so that without the five judges you've introduced, there's nothing you can do. The only problem is that in the next 2, 3, 4 years, you will introduce the next five, and there will be five left, which you call unsympathetic. So this law, which allows the Court to block its actions, in three or four years' time, will act against you. But after talking to your colleagues in the clowns, I understand you're not particularly concerned about it, because, I guess, then you can change this bill. Yes? So there's no blocking minority. So, going back to the probabilistics that was expressed, I'm holding a bet today, which is going to happen in three years. Here's the transcript. We'll talk for three years. 'Cause in turn, seriously. Here I refer to Senator Dobrzyński's statement... I think there's an answer in the senator's speech. Today we're gonna block the Court, at least we're gonna block it, and we're gonna talk. And with such a formulation of this completely new legal situation in which we will be in tomorrow, we will actually be able to think of a compromise, only that it will be a little squeezed compromise. But I'd like to-- I'm just saying this just to make sure it goes away. I think that very soon we will go back to how you will be able to choose yours, your majority of judges, and how you will want to set up relations within the Court. He's a paradox. I've listened to two of these statements today... I mean, a few of them. The fact that we have come to such a strange situation that we, defending this shape of the Court, use quotes from the sacred memory of President Lech Kaczyński. Because, of course, you've noticed in the media space that... [[Senator Stanisław Rooster opens a book with a picture of Lech Kaczyński]] Invaluable Senator Rooster. Thank you. ...that we have repeated as a mantra of the words of President Lech Kaczyński, that the rulings of the Court, even if And he said, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, He doesn't like them, they're final. Roma locuta, causa finita, Rome has spoken and there is nothing to discuss. You discuss not only with this principle, but also with this message. On the other hand, I discovered to my joy and with great surprise that Senator Jackowski refers to the authority of Alexander Kwasniewski. It's also interesting in this whole discussion that we're referring to the creator... [[At his words...]] At his words... [[...not authority.]] But I'm sorry about Lech Kaczyński, what was I referring to? Speaking, Senator? [[Both.]] I referred to the speech. [[But stop the conversation. You're welcome.]] Thank you very much. I mean, I said... [[Okay, but...]] It wasn't me. [[Continue, Senator. And don't disturb me.]] Therefore, it is also interesting, worth noting, that when, even in someone's conviction, the devil himself claims that something is wrong in the constitution, which is of course almost twenty years old, we can also invoke it. And it's so... [[Voice from the room: That's it.]] That's it. I listened very carefully to Minister Ziobra's statement. I have noted the enormous authority among some or most of the Senators of Law and Justice that you are pleased with. This is commendable. However, there is one problem in all these statements by the Minister. He didn't answer the questions he was very eloquently asking. Because at this hour, at this moment we have the following situation: the European Commission, the President of Austria, the head of the Constitutional Tribunal in Luxembourg and a representative of the United Nations in Europe have asked our authorities to explain... [[Mozambique.]] One of the senators said about Mozambique, I don't know which one, but I'd like to point out that there's no constitutional tribunal in Mozambique, so you shot a bullet in the fence. [[But sugar is.]] So, if you wish, Mr. Senator, to refer to Mozambique, I understand that you are saying what we are trying to do. On the subject, of course, we can say that we are not interested in this at all. We talked today about how we are here and now and that these repercussions, whether you like it or not, will have some meaning for us, unfortunately also in an economic sense, because if we send out a signal that... Such a signal for us, for you, for this part of the political scene may be weak, irrelevant, because we can tell ourselves that the countries around us and Europe are not interested. It's just that the problem is that we're like a combination vessel, and this signal is important to those people that connect us, whether we want it or not. Unless we don't want it at all. Economic, trade, political, very important. And it's going to be negative, whether we like it or not. You have to take into account that this is all just part of the package. Yes, sir. And it's not just our internal affairs, it's not just the opposition of a large part of society, the opposition, as everyone said, of legal authorities, but it's a problem... [[Now, Mr. Senator, time...]] Now, I'm sorry, but it's also our problem with our image. [[You've been over 10 minutes, I'm sorry.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u440	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: With all due respect...]] [[Voice from the room: Yet Putina is missing...]] Thank you very much. Now Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I won't take advantage of the privilege of ten. - or even a 15-minute speech from that, for example, that I regret to note that we have not persuaded the PiS to change its position, and even more so to make a difficult attempt to compromise. All this time, there was a feeling that you were strong and that your strength was 235 bayonets in the Seym and sixty-six pairs here in the Senate. It is the experience of our generation, my generation, that by force you can win battles, bayonets you can win battles, but sitting on bayonets, you cannot rule. You have already lost the first battle, because here is not the Platform as your opponent. Your opponents are thousands of demonstrators. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ……]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: Come on!]] You have to convince them to be right. [[Voice from the room: There's nothing to convince.]] You have to convince them. We will be the guardians of their expectations, their memories. [[Voice from the room: Memory...]] Think about it. Think about the struggle between force and our reason for victory on our side. It was 2,000 years ago that the power was killing, and the truth was winning. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u442	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jacek Włosowicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u443	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Once again, there is a legal dispute in this House and once again those who do not deal with the law must take advantage of... They must read so that they can make the right decision, decide on such an important matter. It turns out that from the same basics, we have two completely different conclusions. Imagine a country that has a two-point constitution. The first point is that the king is the only and fair citizen of this country. Second point: everything in this country is decided by the king. If we want to change anything in this constitution, it will turn out that everything will be an unconstitutional record. Not only is it explained to us that these records are unconstitutional, but everything is done to force us to accept such a situation. From day to day and hour to hour in this House and over the past weeks in our country, there has been a situation that has always shown us how wrong we are. On the contrary, we were subjected to terror in our own way. What is happening in the world today is what we think is the greatest threat. At present, this is how we try to explain and force us to imitate this logic, that there is no way to change these records. However, I hope that there are people in this House so strong that they will not succumb to Stockholm syndrome or pressure from the media, and that not only the demonstrators who demonstrate in defence of this, but that many people who are waiting to actually change these records and live in a normal country will encourage us and that in this Chamber, I repeat, Stockholm syndrome will not arise, and we will vote so that it will actually change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u444	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 3:30. And then the vote. [[Adjournment from 3 minutes 22 to 3 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law and the Act amending the Law on Water Law and certain other laws. The Environment Committee has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate Print No 37 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 84 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 26 were against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Water Law and the Act amending the Water Law and certain other laws. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Environmental Law and the Act on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. The Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints Nos 36 A and 36 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] As a result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law and the Act on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. We are returning to the third item of the agenda: the Western Institute Act. Zygmunt Wojciechowski. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment of Senate prints No 43 A and 43 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Western Institute. Zygmunt Wojciechowski. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 48 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration has presented a proposal for the adoption of a law without amendments and requests for amendments to the Act "Senator's printing No 49 A. On foot, there will be a vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. Let's move on. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for an amendment to the act "Senatski Print No 55 A." A vote on the amendment will be held on foot and then a resolution on the bill will be adopted in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The amendment removes provisions aimed at extending the statutory catalogue of entities required to obtain and present to the President of the Energy Regulatory Office a certificate of energy efficiency or payment of a substitute fee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] The amendment was accepted. We proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Variable Energy Efficiency. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act "Senatski Print No 56 A. First, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the law will be adopted in full, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 changes the way in which the date of repeal is determined. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 2 maintains the date of entry into force of the provisions allowing prosumers to benefit from the six-month accounting period. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 3 clarifies that the new rules for obtaining certificates of origin from renewable energy sources will apply from 1 January 2016. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 4 complements the catalogue of regulations temporarily maintained in force. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 4 was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 86 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act on Energy Law. We are back to discussing item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. The Scientific Committee on Education and Sports presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate print No 52 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. We are returning to the 10th agenda: the Act on the Integrated Qualifications System. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 57 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Integrated Qualifications System. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending the Act on personal income tax. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 53 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on a law amending the Act amending the Act on personal income tax. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 54 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development held a meeting on the subject yesterday, unfortunately yesterday. The Commission proposes the adoption of a law amending the Social Insurance Act for farmers and certain other laws without amendments. The motion to reject the bill made by Marshal Borusewicz was lost in the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u446	Thank you very much, Senator. Does Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz still want to speak? Mr. Marshal? [[Thank you. I'm not looking for that conclusion that's gone somewhere.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice in the Chamber: In the vote.]] In the vote, he's gone, in the vote. [[I'm not gonna look for him so I don't speak.]] Good. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. We proceed with the vote on the motion by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 28 for, 59 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 85 senators voted, 58 for, 26 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Laws and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments, while the minority of the committee have submitted proposals for the rejection of the law and for amendments to the Senate Print No 58 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The votes on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We are voting on the motion for a minority of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 28 for, 59 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] In the face of the rejection of the proposal for rejection, we are voting on the proposal of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions for the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 87 senators voted, 58 votes against, 28 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the agenda for the sixth Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will take place on 30 and 31 December of this year. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's pronouncement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within five minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Yes. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u447	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The statement is addressed to the Attorney General Andrzej Seremet in connection with a statement previously made by Senator Grzegorz Wojciechowski on the activities of Pork Handel sp. z o.o. in Warsaw and potential harm to G.A. and replies of 24 January 2014 I request that information be provided on the results of the prosecution's actions. From the information provided in the reply to the statement, among others. Senator Grzegorz Wojciechowski shows that the content of the statement has been transferred to the competent units of the prosecutor's office as material that may constitute a new circumstance in the case. On this basis, and on the basis of the material collected alone, were the proceedings terminated and, if so, at what stage are the proceedings currently referred to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u448	Anyone else? Please, Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a statement to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. From 13 December this year on the railway line S31 Katowice Mysłowice Imielin New Bieruń Oświęcim has closed the merger on the Czechowice-Dziedzice section of Brzeszcze, Oświęcim. The Management Board of the Małopolskie Voivodship withdrew from co-financing the merger, which serves the Silesian Railways. The railway route on which the passenger train courses were closed is an important communication link at the interface between two Małopolska and Silesia voivodships. Rail transport on this route offers the possibility for many inhabitants of the region to reach work, school, doctor and universities in Krakow and Katowice. Decommissioning is also a big problem for local authorities. The lack of passenger connections on these sensitive routes with weak and still underdeveloped road infrastructure will also have a negative impact on the assessment of the attractiveness of the entire region, both in terms of already operating economic operators and potential investors. In support of numerous petitions by local residents and local authorities, I ask for information on the reasons underlying the liquidation of the passenger connections on the Czechowice-Dziedzice railway line, Brzeszcze, Oświęcim and the reasons for the decision. I would also like to ask you to restore the closed connections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-23-senat-06-2.u450	Thank you very much, Senator. Anybody else from the senators want to take the floor? I can't see, I can't hear. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senator's Office, room 255. The sixth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the IXth term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Merry Christmas! [[Meeting adjourned at 3 minutes 51]]
