ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u1	I open the third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Marek Pęk. Mr. Senators, please take your seats. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its first meeting on 19 November 2015 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider point one and point two of the draft agenda, although the prints to those items were delivered at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't see any calls. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? You're welcome, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u2	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm on a formal case. I'd like to ask Mr. Marshal if we'll proceed as we did last time. We want to prepare ourselves well for the bill, and when it comes in like this day or day, which didn't happen before, because... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The analysis of earlier laws shows that this has actually happened several times, but it seems to us that such an important law must be debated in a normal, precise way and in time for preparation. I would also like to ask your marshal to determine exactly whether these breaks will be extended from one to the other, whether it will be night procedures, or whether we will do it as we normally do. By the day when the media and everyone's ready, they're all asleep and can normally process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, as far as the history of our various nights and daily sessions is concerned, we all know it very well. We will try to ensure that today's deliberations are carried out smoothly and end in the early afternoon, and that's all I have to say about it, because, I understand, it was a question addressed to me. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any calls. You haven't filed a formal application? No, that was a question. Okay, Mr. Senator. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I remind you, senators, that those of you who intend to take part in the discussion on a specific item on the agenda are enlisting with the Senator, the secretary leading the list of speakers. The senator's speech in the discussion must not last more than 10 minutes. Signed proposals of a legislative nature are submitted by the senators to the Senate marshal until the debate is closed. In addition, I would like to remind you that voting takes place using electronic apparatus and consists in pressing the apparatus button and raising your hand. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 19 and the report of the Commission In print No 19A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today we held a joint meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, during which we discussed the law on the amendment of the Act on Individual Income Tax. As you probably already know, because this matter was widely discussed in the media, this law introduces two elements. Firstly, it introduces a 70% rate of tax, a flat-rate tax, on compensation for the prohibition of competition for more than 6 months. Secondly, the Act introduces the same 70% rate from checks over 3 months. This is a flat-rate tax levied by a company or entity paying checks or compensation for the prohibition of competition. Of course, it concerns public entities, it does not concern private companies. That's one thing. The second important issue, namely the Act enters into force on 1 January 2016. And here's a note for you. In accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, for this law to enter into force, it must be adopted by 30 November of this year. The ruling of the Court gives a period of one month, when all the changes in taxes must already be. The idea of this tax is known and probably undisputed by anyone In any event, it was not contested at the committee meetings. That is to say, we want to end a pathology which is in the companies of the State Treasury, consisting in the conclusion of agreements on the prohibition of competition or contracts providing for checks, maybe even more so, in the order of several hundred thousand zlotys. And from the media reports, we know that often a few million. Someone works three months, is president of the Treasury company and then gets, of course, if the employment contract or management contract is terminated before the deadline Because this applies not only to employment contracts but also to management contracts A few million-dollar briefing. There's no undoing these contracts. The common practice in EU countries is to correct this through the tax system. I would even say that in some countries of the European Union these rules are much more restrictive, because they also concern private actors. Here, so to speak, this applies to those entities in which public entities have a majority at the general meeting of shareholders or shareholders. This law did not raise any major controversy. Two types of constitutional doubt were raised during the discussion. Some senators raised the issue of constitutionality in the context of whether the principle of equality is maintained. Here was the question of the fact that people who are in companies with the State Treasury will have to pay this extra tax, and those who are in private entities will not have to. And that's what the discussion was about. As regards the second element concerning constitutionality, the question of the date of entry into force of the law was also raised. It was claimed that if the president hadn't signed it... For the President there is a very short time, in fact a few days to sign. There were also some doubts that I should say substantively, but they did not end with any proposal to amend the law. Finally, the committees approved this law without amendments, with 12 votes in favour, no one voted against, one Senator abstained.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u5	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Mr. Senator, you're welcome to the podium, because there are questions. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz first. There you go, Mr. Marshal. And the senator will answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u6	Mr. Senator, because in the press releases this law was only discussed in general, I want to ask you two questions. First question. What group of people does this law include? There is a distinction, it seems, connected among others. with a ban on competition. As far as the prohibition of competition is concerned, it seems to me that it will cover all employees of the State Treasury companies and, in terms of awards, only members of the board. So I'm asking what it looks like. How many people will it take, 1,000, 2,000 or 300? What is this respect? That's the first question. And second question. How it was designated is 70% ? It was 65%. And it's been raised to 70%. It's 70%. And why not 85%? ? Why not 65% or 50% ? What's the reason? [[I'm gonna file a motion...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u7	Good. Thank you very much. There'll be a series of questions. Senator Jan Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, you just said that we should hurry, because the point is for the President to sign this bill this year. Does that mean you've made a deal? [[This month. The senator was talking about this month.]] This month, I'm sorry. [[This month.]] Yeah, I'm sorry. [[Voice from the room: Until the end of November.]] Yeah, by the end of November. [[By the end of November.]] Sorry, yeah. [[Voice from the room: After Beijing.]] Okay, I'm sorry for the mistake, but the point of the question is, did you, as authors of this project, agree with the president that he would definitely sign it? [[But they're not authors, Mr. Senator.]] But they're the rapporteurs. [[Gentlemen are not authors.]] I'm asking if the rapporteur... [[These are the rapporteurs, this needs to be precise...]] ...they've agreed with the President that this bill will be signed this month. Second question. You also said that this bill had already been widely commented on in the media. I agree, but in fact it has been widely commented on for years, actually since 2000 the chimney law has been commented on as a hole, as a broad possibility of pathology. [[You haven't done anything in eight years.]] Nothing has been done in this area, and there is nothing interesting in this initiative, and the state, the authors, refer to this law. And the third question. Has this law in any way been consulted with the Ministry, with the relevant ministries? I ask because they had solutions somewhere in their drawers that could develop this idea of fighting pathology. Thank you very much. [[Jack, Janek, what were we fighting for?]] [[Voice from the room: This is a question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. And the third person in order, Senator Joseph the Hare. You're welcome. [[Chimneys...]] [[And where did Janek fight?]] You're welcome, Senator. We're waiting for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u10	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, in connection with the bill presented, I have the following questions. First. The justification for the bill does not contain information on the financial consequences of the Act and its functioning, so I would like to ask what the scale of the revenue from this tax will be, and what will be the adjustment costs, say, tax forms, clearing IT systems, e.g. PIT for this change. [[The minister will answer.]] Second question. What was the basis for setting the tax rate at 75% ? [[Room voice: 70%.]] Yeah, 70%. Third question. Wouldn't it be more valuable to introduce a well-functioning supervision of the State Treasury, instead of complications of tax law? There are also paradoxes in the proposed legislation, based on the fact that intelligent people, and this is what we are dealing with here, will find a way to circumvent the law. I'm gonna run an accounting simulation like this. We need to talk about this. And the last question is... Oh, no, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u11	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u12	As for the question of Marshal Borusewicz, I will say... There were two questions. First question: how many people will this involve? This is very difficult to determine because this issue also applies to local companies. Here even representatives of the Ministry said that, as far as they can determine, how many people will be involved, as far as companies with the State Treasury are concerned, so far as local companies are concerned, how many will be involved, so... These are going to be numbers in thousands. Let us remember that this applies to persons for whom contracts will be terminated before certain dates. Moreover, this does not apply to prizes, but only to briefings and issues related to the prohibition of competition. I think one of the senators asked why the stakes should be 70%. Well, it would have to be asked by my fellow Members, it was a parliamentary project. On the basis of the above, the rate was 65%. but this rate was increased to 70% in the Committee on Finance and Budgets in the Sejm. I listened to the debate in the Seym and I'll say yes. Members argued that the 65% rate is too low for those giant checks that may or may need to be paid, and there were different, even higher rates. But... I do not remember whether it was the Office of Sejm Analysis or one of the Members pointed out that in Poland the rate for undisclosed income is 75% That's why we can't equal this tax rate or even get close to 75%, because there has to be a distinction between something that is illegal and has been revealed and something that is concluded in accordance with the law, even though it conflicts with the principle of social justice. So it's proposed not to exceed 75%. Senator Rulewski asked a question... He said we were in a hurry, and he asked if we were in a good place, if I was in a good place... Well, I certainly don't get along with the president because I haven't met... And if I said that it was necessary to hurry, in this context, that, in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, all changes in taxes, whether they are local taxes, whether they are taxes adopted by Parliament, must be accepted by 30 November. This is a rigid ruling by the Court, which must be observed. If we want these legal solutions to apply from 1 January 2016, they must not only be adopted by the Sejm, the Senate and signed by the President, but must also be published in the Official Journal of the Laws. Of course, if the Sejm and the Senate passed it today, it's up to the President to decide whether he wants to sign this bill quickly, whether he's going to... well, he has a certain time when he's going to be... If he does not sign it by the end of the month, these solutions will certainly not come into force next year, in 2016, and at the meeting of the committee a representative of the Ministry of Finance said that the failure to approve this law and its non-implementation by the end of this month makes this law actually meaningless, because there will already be some solutions... Well, different people will try to escape, knowing that such a law would have been in operation since 2017... So this bill only makes sense if we adopt it and it comes into force by the end of the month. If she doesn't come into force by the end of the month, she's actually losing her sense in this shape. Has the bill been consulted with the President, it's hard for me to say... [[Voice from the room:...ministerial...]] Has she been consulted... It was a parliamentary project, and both at a committee meeting in the Sejm and at the Senate... The government does not have an official position on this law, although of course the representatives of the various ministries responded to some doubts about the provisions. The next senator asked about the financial consequences. It's very hard to estimate, but they'll definitely be for the plus budget. So don't worry that the state budget will have to pay for it. All the more so because the Sejm has been amended, according to which it will be in the form of a lump sum. Right? Thus, the company will deduct this tax from checks and income from the prohibition of competition. I think this bureaucracy will be simplified, it will be simpler, which will also make it easier for taxpayers... Which was the premise... That's the question that's already been asked, it's repeated. There was a question of ownership supervision, whether ownership supervision should be strengthened. Of course it should be reinforced. Next: Will this bill Is it perfect? Of course she's not perfect. During the committee work, the senators pointed out that certain people would not be in force, but it seems to me that it is better to have such a law and to include in its records those persons who are than to have no law. Right? Because that's the choice. It's about the chimney, it's about the owner's supervision. These are issues that the new government, the new Minister of the Treasury, I think, will somehow regulate. If there are irregularities there, it would be a matter of sealing the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u13	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, in the past, there have been appalling cases of major briefings. At the time, individual decisions were made because there was no such law. Then it ended differently, sometimes in court and sometimes in the loss of the owner, the Treasury, which involved not so much benefits as the need to pay certain amounts. Here's my question. I understand why this bill is quickly processed, but it would still be good if, due to the seemingly simple nature of this bill... These people, these boards run very different companies. Was there, therefore, any attempt to consult, for example, the Confederacy of employers and lawyers who would look at this from the perspective of possible future judicial consequences? Was such an attempt, and if so, was it successful? Are we going to see such opinions, or are we not going to see them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u15	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u16	Senator rapporteur, we are again working on the blind law, at least that is the result of the relations of colleagues who attended the committee meeting. In the dark it means without the necessary opinions; in the blind it means without the necessary calculations. There are laws in which calculations are not as crucial as those relating to revenue to the budget. If the Sejm is able to change the level of taxation from 65% to 70% by the votes of the same political environment, then I would like to ask whether the Senate Committee has any data on the estimated revenue to the budget. In good faith, I assume that this is not about populism, it is about really increasing the revenue to the budget and reducing the sense of social injustice that I share, to make it clear, I share it. . arising from the fact that checks on outgoing governors and members of the Management Boards are too high in relation to other remunerations in the budgetary area, as well as in relation to the remuneration of those governors and members of the Management Board. The key information that we as senators need to have is what is planned for budget revenues with 70% taxation and how they differ from that for 65 percent taxation, because only then will it be possible to say that this is not arbitrary and completely random, discretionary determination of the level of taxation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u17	Thank you very much. Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u18	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator rapporteur, I, too, absolutely share the sense of social injustice in terms of large checks for company presidents, but when I read the bill, I see first and foremost compensation for the non-compete rules. This applies not only to companies of the State Treasury, but also to local government units, state legal entities or municipal units, etc. Here's the thing. Senator Borowski has already mentioned this subject. Do you...? Because compensation is linked to a certain contractual obligation, for example, to the prohibition of competition, namely that a person cannot, say, work in this industry for two years. Well, what then? On the one hand, we deprive such a person of his income, and on the other hand there is the consequence of the ban, which is detrimental to that person. And here undoubtedly... Did you estimate that in such a situation, obviously everyone I speak as a lawyer It's about compensation, so that we understand it, not clearance. He's gonna go to court, where he's gonna show that... [[A voice from the courtroom: And you'll get paid for it.]] ...that's why he agreed, so he's here... Did you estimate these issues related to the very serious danger for people, especially the lower levels... Once again, it's not about the presidents and their briefings, it's about compensation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u19	You're welcome, Senator. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u20	I'll try to answer Senator Borowski. Were there opinions? I can say that at the meeting of the Finance and Budget Committee, here in the Senate, i.e. in a joint meeting with the Economic Committee, there were no external representatives, so they did not express any opinions. Were there written opinions? I have seen the opinions of the Sejm Analysis Office, and of course our Legislative Office has also examined this law. With the Sejm, I know that the applicants had no written opinion. So much for the first question. The second question, Senator Klich, is to repeat the question of opinion. Then there were questions about revenue and estimation issues, what is the difference between 65% and 70% . We didn't analyze 65%. Because the bill has already come to us with a 70% tax. Let me put it this way: from a tax point of view, the law is irrelevant. It generally matters, so I would say, as part of social justice. Today, no estimates were given at the committee meeting of the Ministry of Finance, as they expected, but this would certainly benefit the state budget. The idea, however, that the essence of this bill is not that kind of a tax that will very strongly fund the budget. In general, it is about social justice. This is, let me remind the senators, the constitutional standard, that we should strive for social justice, and yet companies with public funds, whether state or local government, differ significantly from private entities. As for the question of Senator Ziientarski, I would say in this way: let us remember that we introduce tax, and the tax by its very nature is a certain compulsory, compulsory provision which the state introduces. I'm not a lawyer, so I'm gonna allow myself to say an economic analysis, because I wouldn't dare discuss it with your patron. Following the lead you have proposed, it would have to be considered that if, I don't know, the personal income tax rate had changed or we had introduced, I don't know, another rate, a third rate, or raised the rate from 32% to 40%, someone might have said, "I'm sorry, I have a contract signed at this rate and this tax rate." Well, that's how we would have come to some absurdity. We do not enter into the essence of these agreements, but in any situation the state can change the tax scale.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u21	All the answers already, Mr. Senator? [[Yes.]] But there's still reports, so you're welcome to stay here. Senator Przemysław Terminski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u22	Good morning. I have a question, actually. I understand that this law is a kind of response to the inefficiency of the chimney law, and its aim is to achieve a certain state of social justice, which was not achieved in the chimney law because managers learned how to handle it very quickly, and with great success. I draw attention to the fact that what is perceived as social injustice is not the amount of checks and the level of remuneration of those managers. This bill doesn't apply. I see one thing that can be controversial. Namely, you said that the bill concerns several thousand people. As I read it as a lawyer, I see that it concerns tens or maybe hundreds of thousands of people, because the law speaks about taxpayers who have concluded contracts of employment, which provide for checks or include provisions on the prohibition of competition. At the same time, the Act does not contain any minimum threshold, which paradoxically means that when a State Treasury company hires a secretary for PLN 2 000 and puts its 24-month ban on competition because it can carry out some secrets, these 2 000 PLN will also be covered by a 70% income tax rate. Not that I'm questioning it, but I'd like to know that it is and that it was the intention. Because paying 70% income tax on someone who makes 2,000 zlotys, in my opinion, doesn't really achieve the social goal. So maybe I'm saying, maybe, because it's my suggestion to add an amendment in which we would appeal when writing about taxpayers, of course, at the very beginning, that this law applies to the persons referred to in the chimney law? The Legal Office will determine in five minutes... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but you're in the middle of a discussion, not asking questions. I'm asking you a question. We're at the questioning stage. The question will last no longer than a minute, and your non-questioning will take more than two minutes.]] Good. My question is this: do I understand that tens of thousands of people are involved?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u24	Mr. Senator, you said that the basis or intention of this bill is social justice. And that's the right thing to do. I have a question as to whether it was even examined or considered that this bill should actually fix what is probably important, namely the issue of management contracts, which my fellow senators mentioned in this Chamber. And were they also considered In fact, as part of the idea of social justice, these are provisions that say that, for example, the President of the Treasury company can earn six - or eight times the average of people employed in this company? Because we know that social injustice was about the CEOs making huge money, and the employees making, well, to be honest, 100 times less than they did.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u25	Thank you. And in this series, Mr. Senator Andrzej Biesiołek. You're welcome. [[Thank you, but I'm not asking any questions. Those questions that I wanted to ask have already been asked.]] Then it's Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u26	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, before I ask my three questions, I would like to say that, as I felt at the committee meeting, there were no reservations about the idea of the bill. Mr. Senator didn't say that, so I'd ask the senator to confirm that there was no discussion about denying the idea. My question And I would ask you to extend the answer to what Senator Borowski was asking. It concerns an opinion. So we already know there was no one... The question is, was anyone invited? That's the first question. Second. Have we spoken to anyone about presenting such an opinion? I would also ask the senator to say a few words about the opinion of our Legislative Office. Was she good with this bill or not? And one last little question. Mr. Senator, could you elaborate on what you said and what you asked the marshal about the fixed interest rate that was set at 70%? to not exceed 75% ? How could you develop that thought? That's what you said when you presented the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u27	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u28	The senator gave an example of a secretary who would make 2,000 zlotys, and asked if she would get on this bill. If she has a 24-month ban on competition, of course she'll get on that bill. I haven't heard anyone ban competition for... [[Voice from the hall: Secretary.]] ...persons in this position, usually, so to speak, for top managers such records are defined. Let's remember one more thing. The authors of this law, the applicants, do not question the substance itself that a ban on competition must be guaranteed. And as far as these 6 months are concerned, in this case normal taxation is based on the generally applicable scale in Poland, i.e. a tax of 19%. or 32%. We are talking about those who are banned from competition extended to over 6 months. I can only repeat such as the Minister's opinion. I don't want to talk too much because the Minister is here and he can say it himself. Even in private businesses, it is very rare that the prohibition of competition is longer than 6 months, so only for such specific industries, where there is a very high concentration on the market, there are two or three companies. It's not like mass, commercially private owners, so to speak, they're protecting themselves. It's basically... I agree with what one of the senators said. I don't remember which way it's going to cut back on what's involved in the so-called "observation." The chimney bill. Because managers were looking for different ways, they had different ideas, often companies artificially came down with shares to get below 50%, because then wages could go very hard, dynamically up. So, if it wasn't a job contract, it was a management contract, and yet, to protect ourselves, we'd give 12 months or 24 months of non-compete, 12-month check-in, etc. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this does not really apply to ordinary serial employees or even highly specialised employees in companies with the participation of the State Treasury or local government. I was a nine-year councillor on the town council of Jelenia Góra, and believe me, we also analyzed companies in this respect. We had, like, five municipal companies, and there was no such situation that employees would not have such employment guarantees. I don't think anybody's uncles, mayors or presidents would agree to such extra security, except for top management, except for the board members. And that's a kind of pathology, too, because why should we pay someone, I don't know, for two or three years, if the other employees on the market don't have... And so it is when it comes to briefings. The standard under the Labour Code is a three-month check-in and all that should be as standard, regardless of income, but if the check-in is more than three-month • if there are special conditions in the contracts that are signed It is these people who should pay a higher tax. I don't think I'm answering the question so directly. The person in the post of secretary or assistant was affected by this law. As for Senator Napieralski's question, I will answer yes. Of course, the key is the chimney bill. I agree that she should be changed, but will the government accept such a solution Mr. Minister is in the courtroom. That would have to be asked by government representatives. I can give my private opinion on this: if there was such a sealing bill, I am in favour. I don't know about piss friends. That's, I can say, my individual behind, but I can't speak for the government here. They kept coming back to those 70-75%. Dear Members, an amendment has been tabled to increase this from 65% to 70%. Well, everyone has the right to make an amendment. An amendment of 68% could have been tabled. Or 72%. I can only repeat the idea once again, and they wanted this tax rate to be below 75%. because the lawyers emphasized very strongly that we cannot compare the tax rate of legitimate income with the tax rate of undisclosed income. So this stakes must have been... Lawyers said it would be grounds for declaring this law unconstitutional. So this rate must have been below 75%. It could have been 74%. But that is what my fellow Members have proposed. And it was assumed that it would be 75% ... [[Room voice: 70%.]] 70% , not 75% Not 65%. That's it. There was also a question of the senator's opinion of the Senate's Legal Office. There was such an opinion and some reservations were indicated in this opinion, and the doubts were about what I was talking about at the very beginning. They concerned two elements. One element concerned the constitutionality of the bill as regards this deadline for the President to sign. It was claimed to be a very short term. Yeah, but we'll see what the president's decision is. I don't know the President's decision. I can only presume that he will probably sign this bill. But what's the deadline? It's hard for me to answer for you, Mr. President. The second element that raised our Legislative Office was that it undermines the principle of equal treatment of entities, because in private entities such a tax does not exist, and in public entities such a tax is introduced. Well, here's the clash of these two constitutional norms. On the one hand, the standards of equal treatment for operators and on the other hand the standards of social justice. I'm not scared myself. I don't think the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal want to defend these multimillion-dollar briefings, especially since there is a very important distinction... Well, here we are dealing with entities that use public funds. There have been many such judgments of the Constitutional Court that, if there are significant differences, it is possible to differentiate as to the substance, the status of individual persons can be differentiated. I think the premise here, which is very different, is the form of ownership. I don't know if you are the senators who are raising this element... or if you would like to include private entities as well. If you wish, make such an amendment. I think we'll be wondering about her.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u29	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Excuse me? [[I'd like to ask you to answer the first question that Senator...]] [[Please remind me of that question.]] Remind me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u30	If you don't mind, I'll say it again. I meant about the opinion case. Have we applied to anyone for an opinion? And have we invited anyone to the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u31	Mr. Senator, this is a question for President Bierecki, who is not here at the moment. As far as I know, I don't think so, but I'm not gonna cut my hand for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u32	Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u33	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Please refer to the definition of the State Treasury company and the company with the participation of the State Treasury company. That's my first question. Second question. You've already used the word "patology" twice. I'd like to know exactly which boards or companies it refers to. Because I can't quite understand that word about what we're looking at.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u34	Good. Senator Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u35	Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, Senator rapporteur, as to how serious abuses or even pathologies that my previous speaker has spoken about and the definitions in this matter are demanding, we have all seen in recent years in the Treasury companies. And it's not just about the very large, multimillion-dollar salaries themselves, but it's also about unpaid checks later. And about that, we all have no doubt. This discussion raises doubts today and why, for eight years, although it is said that the drawers were good, as I have heard, solutions for making changes, they are not here, in this High House or in the Sejm. Why didn't the previous coalition just do it? But I also have these questions. Didn't the chimney bill change in 2012 as well? Didn't this law at that time allow for even more remuneration in the Treasury companies? It's one question. And can the Senator rapporteur at this point at any time justify, explain, what would result in the failure to adopt this law in a very rapid manner, in a very short time? How would this result in 2016? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u37	Mr. Senator, I have a question about whether you've been examining the fact that, in the event of a non-compete... Did you ever find out what the average paid receipts are? Because from my information, it's about 40% of what the manager makes. So, are you saying that you're trying to keep payouts after six months? I ask, because from a simple account and from what you have written down, it would appear that those who are subject to the prohibition of competition will be able to claim compensation for the prohibition of competition for up to 14 months, if my information is that the average is 40%. It's real. On the other hand, the second information I was given is that there are virtually no non-compete bans in these companies for more than a year... [[If it's not, how is it not?]] Excuse me. May I, Mr. Marshal... So... It would be because we don't put so much in... not so much as trying to reduce pathology by setting here a time of six months as long as we leave the possibility of downloading it for 14 months. Has anyone in any way analysed the fact that the wording of paragraph 15 de facto gives the possibility to collect this equivalent for remaining unemployed not for 6 months but for 14 months? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u38	Thank you very much, Senator. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u39	One of the senators. I'm sorry, I didn't always write down my name, but he asked me to give you the definition of the Treasury company and the State Treasury company. Ladies and gentlemen, please read this bill. It states very clearly that it concerns companies in which the Treasury, the local government unit, the union of local government units, a state legal person or a municipal legal person have directly or indirectly a majority of the votes at a meeting of shareholders or at a general meeting. I think it's pretty clear. If you want, you can read the company code, there's definitions, obviously I don't have them in my head. The Treasury Company is a company in which the Treasury has its shares. And they can be single-member companies of the State Treasury, i.e. those in which the State Treasury has 100% shares or shares. Here it is wider, because it does not only apply to the Treasury, but also to local governments and state-owned legal entities, so if the company becomes a state-owned company, then of course this company will also have to pay such... And if other conditions are met, they will also be subject to the said tax. What will result if this law is not adopted? Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this tax will not be introduced and the people who, let's assume, I don't know, will be cancelled in March and will have a 15-month severance pay at a rate of 32%. And if this law comes into force, then for the first three months they will pay the normal rate, which is 32%. And in the next months it's 70%. A little bit, to be honest, I've lost track of what you've learned from the senator these 14 months. Because let's remember one thing: we're talking about... This is a flat-rate tax, right? And let's say somebody has... And here I agree with the senator. In fact, in the original draft law which entered the Sejm, this period of non-tax non-compete ban was up to 12 months. And all that after 12 months... And at some point, I suspect Members have consulted that it is very rare for a ban on competition to be more than 12 months old and to correct not only rates from 65% to 70%. , but also reduced the period of the prohibition of tax-free competition to 6 months. And now, you know, it's not like if someone's banned from competition, they can't work anywhere. She can't work in certain, I don't know, industries, certain companies, as per the contract. And if now someone gets banned from competition for 12 months, then for six months, they get a regular briefing. If this check-in is paid for more than 3 months, it pays at a rate of 70% and if up to 3 months, it pays according to the scale currently in force. So if it's banned, let's assume, for 12 months, that for the first six months it has a taxable income on the current scale, and it pays 70% on the surplus. , so independently... Because I suspect that you mean that 12 months of non-compete doesn't mean 12 salaries, but that can be 12 periods, and that period of non-compete doesn't have to be a period of... [[Voice from the hall: Monthly.]] ...the salary that such a person has so far had. And it's probably in many cases that this non-compete isn't 100%. salary, only much less. But let us remember that a ban on competition does not mean that such a man cannot work anywhere during these months. He can normally work. And this is a flat-rate tax, on certain income, you can say that the tax is a little bit special... So if this man goes to work and works wherever he works, he normally goes into the normal tax rate. And you could say that someone who gets a non-compete income has paid such extra money, such an extra income. He can't look for a job here, here and here, so he gets some money. And he's gonna have to pay more than six months of that income.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u40	Already, Mr. Senator? [[Yes.]] Good. Senator Szymanski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u41	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, because this is where the wording of the briefing is made, questions have been raised from various professional groups, including officials, whether or not they are concerned. I know it's not, but I think it's important to mark it. For example, employees who, after 40 years of work, leave and have the right to check-in 6 or 7 months who have worked 40 years in the official profession... Does that apply to people like you?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u42	Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u43	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. I understand that changes to reduce the pathology of briefings and briefings are necessary. Is it not necessary to go further and should not the law ultimately limit the amount of compensation and compensation for the prohibition of competition?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u44	Thank you very much. Senator Grażyna Shark. [[Mr. Senator...]] [[Voices from the room: Can't hear!]] [[I'm sorry, but I've got a button pressed.]] We'll wait, Senator. [[Mr. Senator, I have a question...]] [[The colored ones need...]] [[That's as far as I can hear.]] [[You can hear it now, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u45	Mr. Senator, the amount of severance payments is part of a contract of employment or another form of employment contract adopted, and trade unions have the legal power to consult these agreements under collective agreements. My question is: have you consulted with any trade union headquarters on this bill? Because, I believe, these collective agreements will have to be terminated. Therefore, my question concerns the consultation of trade unions... [[Why would they do that?]] Yes, Senator Rooster, that too is... [[And the employers' union?]] ...in the bill. Thank you very much. [[That question will embarrass you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u46	Thank you very much, Senator. Yet... [[Let's hope there's something else you don't...]] ...Senator Przemysław Terminski. You're welcome. Would any of you like to ask the senator of the rapporteur another question?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u47	Senator Shark has already partially asked my question, which is similar. Have you considered the impact of this law on collective labour agreements and the impact of this law on voluntary schemes? Both the document and the other document They relate to ways of resolving the employment relationship They contain provisions on compensation and compensation, often longer than for a period of 6 months. In this context... [[That's right.]] ...this bill may not apply to managers, but simply And that's what I said. Tens of thousands of employees.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u48	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u49	Does it apply to retirement pensions? Of course, it does not apply to pensions, either in offices or even in these companies. She's a very specific subject. I will repeat once again, because it is clear that it is worth two cases: compensation for the prohibition of competition and the situation when the employment contract or management contract will be terminated earlier, because often, unfortunately, some managers run away from employment contracts, enter into civil law contracts. So it does not in any way apply to pension payments, including those who work in companies of the Treasury. When someone's over 40 years old and gets a briefing or retires... the bill has nothing to do with it. That's one thing. Was this consulted with the trade unions? As far as I'm concerned, it wasn't. [[Why?]] [[Oh, scandal!]] There was one more question for the senator, and I can't remember which one I forgot to answer. One of the senators, colleagues from the Civic Platform, asked me to confirm that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance did not question the idea of this law. I can confirm that. None of the senators questioned the idea of this bill. I think that the fact that no one voted against is also a confirmation that no one questioned the idea of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u50	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u51	Thank you very much. I have the following question. Mr Senator, the rapporteur said I don't know if I got it right. That the tax in question is to be collected by companies that will pay... For the first time in my life, I'm seeing something so that the tax is collected by anyone other than the Treasury. That's my first question. And the second question: was it compared, like in companies where there is no participation of a company of the Treasury, municipal, local government... Did they compare management contracts for example, I do not know, in a bank which is 100% owner other than the Treasury, or in another company... The point is to see if it's really that scale... Or are we just talking about the problem we're seeing about narrow matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u52	Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u53	Mr. Senator, allow me to come back... You actually answered me exactly the way I thought it would look. But the essence of my question, which I want to repeat, is that in my opinion, according to the calculations I just gave, and from the data I have, the record of paragraph 15 is an empty record. I mean, I'm afraid he won't involve anyone. Because because of such a combination, the fact that on the prohibition of competition is paid on average 40% per month salary, combined with the fact that there are few bans on competition longer than 12 months, here we are dealing with a standard that looks very beautiful, but in fact it's nothing, but it didn't hurt the said managers. I mean, when you formulate a recipe like that, you leave 100%. These briefings... Sorry, not briefings, just... I'm talking about a non-compete. It's very easy to say that... it's all about, let's just say, not really, as you say, a wide range of people. And such bans on competition that last over a year and a half, sometimes a year and a half... If you take into account these 40% You're leaving exactly what they had. And it doesn't change anything. And my question is, isn't my reasoning right? Isn't it that nothing changes? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dobrzyński's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u55	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like confirmation... It is very possible that these subjects were discussed at the committee meeting. Well, as far as I'm concerned, collective agreements don't involve management contracts... [[Of course not.]] ...or company boards. [[But that's not what the bill's about.]] This is a different situation, the one that was discussed here. And by the way, I'm wondering what the trade union opinion would be if they found out that the checks in question were a million, one and a half million checks for well-earned company presidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u56	Thank you, Senator. And, last in this series of questions, Senator Terminski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u57	I just want to ask you to answer my question whether the consequences of the adopted entries have been analysed. That's exactly what I'm talking about at point 16, because point 15 is not controversial. In terms of collective bargaining agreements and those compensation arrangements for the dismissal of workers. And whether there was an analysis of the consequences as regards voluntary exit schemes, which are common in State Treasury companies. And all of this applies to de facto companies of the State Treasury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u58	Thank you. Senator rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, one of the senators, as he said, is surprised that the tax discussed here is collected by the company, not by... And the senator claims that he does not know such cases. Well, I'll tell you, Senator, it's not unusual. Because the company will only be an element that deducts this tax, and it will, of course, go to the state budget. And I know a few cases where different types of entities collect tax. Well, let's consider, for example. investment tax. The bank downloads it automatically and then transfers it to... If a person plays the stock market, he knows that right away, automatically, the brokerage office collects the dividend tax, there is no part of it. These cases happen, but... I can also tell you that this element was introduced in the Seym as an amendment, it is not in the original draft. And in general, in my opinion, it's convenient for the taxpayer, because otherwise he would have to deal with those amounts later, filling in his PIT, and that's how it's gonna be hit here in a lump sum form. I believe that it will be simply convenient for those who are subject to this tax. And I think it'll be cheaper for you, too, because companies will take over these procedures and just pay or return a certain tax to the tax office, you might say. I am now answering the question of whether, within the framework of trade unions, the issue of agreements has been consulted, the voluntary scheme to leave, or whether it has been consulted in this regard. This was not discussed at the committee meeting, either in the Sejm or in the Senate; in any event, this element was not raised in this part of the session in the Sejm where I was at. And again, the question of how many people it will take, what a group it is. Some of you say it's going to be a very small group; Mr. Senator showed about these briefings... Another Senator from the Platform said it would be several hundred thousand. I don't think it's one or the other. Well, that's hard to say. We know how many State Treasury companies we have, how many local companies there are; it's probably thousands on a national scale. But let us remember that this also applies to a very specific situation. It's not gonna be like... if someone has a signed employment contract, they're the top manager and they're gonna run out of term, it's not like they're paying that tax. We're talking about damages... [[My question was different.]] ...so I don't think it's gonna be like thousands of people, it's not gonna be mass... [[My question was this: don't you think that this will be an empty record and that in fact no one will actually be affected by this record? I've already given the count, and I don't want to say it again.]] But, Mr. Senator, I just think what my colleagues in the Sejm did, reducing this period from 12 months to 6 months... [[Voice from the room: Will they get it?]] Well, I think they're gonna get it, calm down, so please...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. Are there any more questions from the senators? I would like to inform you that the bill was filed by... [[One more question.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u61	I have a question for you, Senator Marshal. I would like to ask you, Mr Senator, because you were certainly at the session of the Parliamentary Committee, which was proceeding with this very bill, whether there were any objections to this bill, this change, also from fellow Members of other clubs, and not just... This proposal is, you know, Laws and Justice. And were there objections from other clubs, such as the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party? We know that their prominent activists are sitting in these companies, and it is likely that this may be the case in particular for their activists. So I would like to ask whether there have been opposition from Members of these political formations.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u62	Mr. Senator, in the Seym of this idea, as it was said here, no one questioned. As far as I know, I don't think anybody voted against it at the committee meeting, but in the Seym... I wasn't there for the vote anymore because it was very late, but the Platform's parliamentary club seems to have stopped... [[Voice from the room: Defend colleagues.]] Yes, everyone abstained from voting, perhaps one Member was against, or perhaps two or three. So this also shows that... there was a discussion about such specific things that in some situations some people would not pay this tax, there were constitutional doubts, but no one questioned the validity of the idea that you had to with certain irregularities... I remember one of the senators accused me here. I haven't referred to it yet. That I used the word "patology." I think paying such a giant check-in... Well, I don't want to go back to what was on the tapes, let's just leave it. But this shows that some people at first decide that if they're ever fired, they're gonna get a 24-month briefing. I think it's pathology, but someone else might. to call it, use a different term. Well, anyone can tell themselves... Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u63	Thank you. I don't see any more calls. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Konrad Raczkowski: I think that the Senator rapporteur presented the bill in a comprehensive manner, I don't actually have... There is no official position of the government.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Konrad Raczkowski: I have nothing more to add. Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u64	I have a one-minute question. I would like you to say, Minister, whether the Ministry has any estimates of how many people will be covered by this law. Is it going to be a few thousand, a dozen thousand or a few hundred people?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u65	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u66	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a brief question, too. Every day I work as a doctor and meet with patients who are shocked not only by high checks but also by high salaries, and in companies that are not necessarily in the best financial condition, I will mention here even about PKP. And so I have a question as to whether the finance department was running it. Is it possible that they are being carried out? Work to prepare a revision of the Individual Tax Act, such a more comprehensive one, which regulates more effectively than a chimney law excessively high, in a social sense, pay and excessively high, in a social sense, compensation or compensation. Is such a comprehensive solution being worked out? Isn't it better to replace such a comprehensive regulation with this targeted amendment in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u67	Thank you. Senator Shark, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u68	Minister, in the process of working on this bill in the Ministry... I consistently ask the opinions of the trade union centrals. On this bill, which we are to vote on today, have you consulted the trade unions on collective agreements, which also include clearance agreements and chimney agreements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u69	Thank you. Let us allow the Minister to answer these three questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u70	Thank you, Mr President. As for the opinion... I'm sorry about the estimates, the Ministry of Finance didn't make such estimates and, as far as I know, there are no estimates. Are they possible in the future? Probably, but it takes time. And the difficulty with this kind of research... A method of indirect testing would be applied here, which means that... well, such estimates would not be reliable. Why? Since the employment relationship between the employer and the employer is subject to legal protection, salaries are normally covered I'm not saying all the wages, but part of the wages. Some clauses and this is undiscoverable. You can use it here. Of course, we are still talking about companies of the Treasury or with the State Treasury. Only a collective, general category of part of some budget expenditure with... and on this basis estimate. I am talking about this as a methodical limitation of such estimates, although it is to be done. Is there a comprehensive work going on, how was the senator gracious to ask about personal income tax in the systemic sense? Such work is currently being carried out in the field of all major tax titles, but this tax title is not the most important title. The most important from the point of view of the revenue of the state budget are indirect taxes, i.e. VAT, where the tax gap itself exceeds PLN 50 billion, on which we focus, and excise duties... and CIT, although this tax is included in the framework of a systemic insight into public finances. With regard to the senator's question about the opinion of the trade union centrals, I will say that it is not the government that is prosecuting this bill, it is a parliamentary project, and it is therefore difficult for me to answer that question. However, I do not think that such an opinion is needed at all in this regard, because I do not believe that it concerns collective agreements. But I don't know much about collective agreements, so I'm not going to talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u71	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u72	The authors of the bill, and you indirectly supported the presentation of... the justification, refer to existing pathologies. No one better than the Ministry of Finance is able to assess the magnitude of these pathologies. So I have a question: how much, how do you estimate the value of these pathologies?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u73	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u74	Mr Marshal, Minister, at the committee meeting I asked a question about the financial consequences of this law. I'd like to ask you again because I haven't been able to get the full information. And yet every law, which is a tax law, has some effect on the state budget. How do you predict the financial impact on the state budget of this law next year?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u75	Thank you. Do any of you senators want to ask the government's representative any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Minister, please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u76	As far as pathology is concerned... I don't know if I understood the senator correctly. Is it the value of pathology in the sense: how many of these taxes from all tax titles do not affect, or... [[...for lack of regulation, yes, sir.]] For lack of regulation. Such estimates That's what I know. They haven't been done so far. There is a Department of Macroeconomic Policy which should make such estimates, but he does not have them in his competence. Such competence will be entered in the nearest reorganisation within two weeks. No one's ever made that estimate before, which is why they're gone. The financial consequences of this bill. It's hard for me to know what they might be. Of course, there's a row of size, but I'm not gonna decide to give some compartment completely from the ceiling, based on very indirect data, because that would be ridiculous of me. As far as the financial consequences of this law are concerned, in 2016... The answer is somewhat similar to that of the first question. Of course, the effect is positive for the state budget, but I would have answered this question a little differently. Why introduce this law, aside from any comments, if that's the case... I don't give a damn what they might be. If you implement this law, then only at this moment. Introducing it from the next year will cause it to miss the target, it will be worthless. I mean, the tax advisory offices will offer tax optimization right away. It doesn't make sense. So if you put it in, right now. Unless we decide to leave it and, for example, change the chimney bill to some extent. But because of the possibility to optimize tax law, the tax optimization of companies only quickly introduce a change, and that each, gives a positive financial effect. If the law simply doesn't come into force now, it basically passes away from the goal from a financial point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u77	Thank you, Minister. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u78	Minister, what you're saying is probably true, but it also raises some doubts. So, are we really doing this one-off regulation today, because next year these corporations you're talking about will find a way to deal with these regulations?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u79	Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u80	Dear Senator, the situation is that we must imagine that you are right. Unfortunately, I fear that tax law will have to be amended more frequently in a systemic way, that is, perhaps once a year. The amendments will have to be introduced in particular as regards VAT, income tax, CIT and excise duty as major titles. Let me say more: we have a CIT law that we cannot implement, which guarantees us 7 billion PLN of revenue next year, 2016. This is a guarantee, it's not: maybe, it's a guarantee. And we can't bring her in because the election calendar won't allow it. It's just the timing. And what are the consequences? The failure to implement this law means that there is no influence, and the introduction of it in this form in the following year will not give us these 7 billion zlotys in the following year, only maybe 500 million zlotys from so-called. stowaways companies that did not report to tax advisory offices. Unfortunately, that's how it works, ladies and gentlemen. When it comes to, for example, about what's on the wallpaper and why I'm talking about it, now the advisory offices specialize in introducing new optimization methods every few months. There is such aggressive optimization, at the moment famous: division by separation. This service costs about PLN 3 million, but for corporations it's small money because you earn a few to... well, usually a few dozen times more. That's the result, and we need to know that's how it works. I'm not discovering anything here.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u81	If there are no further questions, then... [[I'm gonna...]] You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u82	I don't have so much as a conclusion. I would ask you to answer my question in writing, which group, how many people this bill will cover and what the financial consequences will be. And I'd like that answer to come in by the end of the year. I understand you weren't prepared for this bill, but that's the basic information the Ministry should provide.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u83	Did the Minister... [[One more question.]] Oh, one more question. You're welcome, Senator... [[No, thank you. I would ask for the same written answer for me.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Marshal Borusewicz and Senator Dowhan. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When I read in the media that the Members of the Law and Justice have put forward an initiative to combat pathologies in the area of unfair remuneration in the parts relating to compensation and the accelerated, falsified termination of employment relationships or changes in this area, I raised both my hands to sign off on it. Even earlier, during the work of the widely discussed chimney law, pathological phenomena, phenomena not fully regulated by law appeared. The fact is that within 15 years of this law's operation it became... well, maybe not dead, because in the authorities of the local government it works, but half dead. The world has noticed that such phenomena cannot be regulated only by the private economy or by the free market. I'll mention Enron's affair, Rank Xerox or the bank-related incident. You'll confirm, Mr. President Bierecki, won't you? In fact, it has caused the economy to fail, and the effects of this are felt by people, societies who did not have a part in it. But when I read the bill, one hand fell because I found many mistakes in it. Even a tolerant approach to this issue, and in particular the emphasis of the article. 2nd Constitution, which says that Poland is a democratic rule of law that respects the principles of social justice, would indicate that I should stand in favour of the second word... However, I still have my doubts, and I want to report them so that this right idea will materialize and enter into force. The first reservation concerns the pettyness of this solution. These pathologies concern, as already in the questions came out, High Izbo, salaries. The chimney law is standardizing the growing number of state-owned enterprises, as more and more of them are privatised. It turns out that these salaries have completely escaped the control of this bill. The company of the daughter, the company of the granddaughter even began to be formed. The CEOs of some companies employed themselves in supervisory boards of companies which were not companies with a 50% share of state capital, and received considerable remuneration. An even more drastic phenomenon occurred in the field of awards and commissioned works, which the chimney law does not standard. And the freedom of remuneration in terms of signing contracts enshrined in the chimney law... Surprisingly, it has a wavy character. The second reservation concerns tax inequality. I am not the author of this phrase, it is the media that emphasizes it. But before I talk about tax inequality, which has already been interpreted quite strongly, I will talk about another phenomenon that I have asked here. Is it really necessary to use a rigid tax element, and that is the tax, and at such a rate to regulate this matter, to eliminate this, however, pathology? Well, that's okay. This could have been settled in the chimney bill, and then it wouldn't have been my charge that this case is already dealt with with the President, and you here in this House have nothing to say. The amendment of the chimney law would not have to be signed until 30 November. Moreover, it could cover more aspects of the management of the economic operators of which the State is the principal owner. This has its legal framework in the form of an answer, perhaps three times, to the Constitutional Court and even to the Strasbourg Court of Justice, that such regulation is acceptable. That is why I believe that this haste can be counterproductive in terms of the intention of Members and Senators of Law and Justice. In view of the experience of working on the chimney law, the issue of whether a transitional period is not necessary has arisen. Well, as you know, this law standardizes labour relations, employment contract issues. And you don't need much knowledge, ladies and gentlemen... Speech must have a period of time, unless contracts are concluded for a fixed period. This is generally the case, and it is rather applied that the notice period is 3 months. The Constitutional Tribunal, if it is referred to it, will probably be in favour of my position, which I would like to take into the form of an amendment and which was applicable in the chimney law, it is that there must be at least three months to change the terms of the contract or even, as Senator Štark says, collective agreements, because they must be terminated and perhaps even dealt with by these workers... [[Voice from the room:...not with the managers, Senator, not with the board. What are you talking about?]] Please? [[Voice from the room: Not with managers.]] It's a good thing you're calling me in a provocative way, thank you to the marshal for not cutting that voice off. 'Cause... here's the question of whether a secretary can abuse her law by violating competition rules. I assure you, Senator... I've been practicing this case, it was in a two-person company where the secretary and the owner were there. The secretary drove away from the owner with the database of insured persons, those he insured, founded her company and violated the competition principle. That's right, the secretary could violate the competition rules, destroy the entrepreneur. I'm not talking about designers anymore, and I was like that. A simple constructor can carry more than a bad manager or even a good manager. I understand I enlightened you because I see you opened your mouth with astonishment. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: It's...]] Thank you very much. Sir... [[Voice from the room:...not designers.]] Well, once in a while, you can't do it again. On the side, I'll enlighten you even more. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important issue that may have started yet other processes, and I therefore believe, because of the concern for the success of this law, that my amendment, which introduces this three-month period for the termination of the agreement on all contracts that were concluded before the entry into force of the law, i.e. before 1 January, is the opposite here, even with regard to the President's signature, which, I understand, has already been agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. Now Mr. Senator Jackowski. [[Voice from the room: He resigned.]] He resigned. Then you're Senator Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about a project that should have come along a long time ago and we've been expecting for the last eight years. Not further than last year, in the summer, Minister Karpiński announced that he would take care of this problem. I would like to start by congratulating Members on their courage and taking up the solution to this problem. I hope we all understand what we're dealing with. I understand, of course, that the senators of the Civic Platform, who have done nothing about it for eight years, now have many questions and many doubts, but through these questions they do not seek to solve this problem, these questions are really... Well, defend these high checks, Mr. Senator Rulewski? Is that what this is about? Do you have any other plans? Other plans... You've been looking for confirmation from me of these high-level briefings in the banking sector. I agree with you. I would like to inform you quickly that the highest clearance in the banking sector was given to Mr Jan Krzysztof Bielecki, head of advisors to Donald Tusk, and it was over PLN 7 million. Of course, this does not apply to the State Treasury company, because it received it from a private bank. I'm not gonna criticize the owner. But since you've asked about the amount of checks in the banking sector, I've allowed myself to give you that information. This bill is very important for one reason, she says what's allowed, what's not allowed, what's wrong, what's wrong. Until now, the Polish State has not decided to make it clear what is acceptable level of checks in companies which are part of the sector of public or public enterprises, because this also applies to municipal companies, so far it has not been decided to say what is acceptable, the acceptable duration of the non-compete agreement. It is very good that such frames appear. By means of this law, we point out what are the proper market behaviours, what are the standards that should apply in this business. Of course, we can do this with regard to companies that are state-owned companies, but this will not be without an impact on the private sector. This is a reference point in a situation where the courts will consider whether the amount of the check-in or the duration of the non-compete agreement In fact, we're talking about the amount of money that you get as this golden parachute, leaving the company. They do not violate the standards, whether these sizes are socially acceptable. This is the reference point, this law is a reference point, very important for the whole market, for the whole economy. So much for my main message. In fact, the meaning of this law is normative, ordering the market broadly in the area of so-called. Gold parachutes. There's one more thing I'd like to say. These standards, these rules will work effectively if they are linked to good ownership supervision. For eight years, as you can see, the previous governments have failed to achieve good ownership supervision. This ownership oversight has allowed us to deal with a situation that we're dealing with right now. I hope that the new government will be equipped with the right tools to effectively solve such problems. Once again, I congratulate Members on taking up this difficult task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u87	Thank you, Senator. Senator Augustine. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! After such an expert on high wages it is difficult, perhaps, to argue competently, but it is not necessary. What really upsets people is the undeserved, huge, high wages in banks, in SKOK, in other financial institutions, in companies, not only... [[In the companies of the Treasury.]] ...yes, not only in the Treasury companies, but in general. Why? Because people don't feel that these salaries are somehow linked or strongly linked to the results of many companies. It's annoying. And although this bill is going in the right direction, it seems I was just saying, Senator, I don't want to argue with you about that. That's the problem. Many countries have encountered this problem. There are countries that have adopted laws on not only public property. I know that in the United States In particular, after the crisis caused by the banks This type of regulation has been introduced. And this is the first issue that was also raised at the committee meeting, that there is sectoral inequality here, that it can also be raised in constitutional terms; and this is a specific concern. It would certainly be easier for us to discuss if this submission was preceded by a diagnosis. Even the senator didn't respond and didn't set an example in this sphere we're investigating, he just gave another example. And it would be worth it if we weren't just leaning on the individual in this case. It's true about shocking media reports, but it's also true about a certain specification. The Senator rapporteur and the Minister spoke about various matters, but we still do not know how many people it concerns, we do not know how many companies it concerns, we do not know how much money it concerns, because this law was not preceded by a reliable diagnosis. In addition, there are reservations about the procession. I understand it's been like this a lot of times. For example, in November That tax laws, including around-budget ones, were bound by such deadlines. And I understand that. I also understand why there is no room for amendments today. On the other hand, in order to justify the fact that we do not invite the social partners to the committee meeting, that we would not give them a chance to speak, it became that at the last minute... I really... After all, we live in the age of the Internet For such an invitation to come, it takes a few seconds to work. We've heard that invitations like this haven't been sent. That's too bad. I think that our discussion could be much richer, more concrete and bear such a message for the future. Because what you said to the Minister, answering my question and admitting that I am right, indicates that today we must think about the future, that this bill is partial and, even as the Minister has admitted, a temporary solution to the problem. That's why I think it's worth considering in the future. I am convinced that Mr President, next time they will not give in to time pressure and will invite the social partners and representatives of employers' trade unions to discuss at the committee meeting. At the committee meeting, numerous legal doubts were raised, which were also raised in the Sejm, doubts which also raised the Legislative Office. Here, too, the rapporteur spoke of them, who, I must say, lacks competence, and what is admirable, the integrity of reporting on what was happening at the committee meeting, did not avoid the fact that these issues were raised that deficiencies had been identified and that there was a whole lot of them. And in the end, I'm gonna say yes. I know that the parliamentary submission does not need to include an impact assessment, but it seems that at least some rough estimates should be presented in consultation with the Ministry. And it's not even about the money, it's about the legal effects. However, here several senators expressed concerns as to whether such a move would not be challenged or whether such a move would not have negative effects, including negative legal effects. You can't tonight... Anyway, I won't be calmed down after this discussion, assured it's impossible. So it would be worthwhile to present such an assessment. Finally, I would like to say that we, as your predecessors, can be accused of not reacting earlier and not reacting decisively, but this cannot be an excuse for the fact that we are now presented with such an immature project. We will try to ensure that the Platform club knows that it will present a comprehensive project in the Sejm in the coming weeks, possibly modernising the chimney bill, so as to close not only partially and not only this one gate, but to organize... Senator Bierecki, at the end of his speech, said that this was an orderly solution. The point is to keep this tidying up. I think we will work together on this as part of a further process in this House as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u90	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm surprised, too. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, We're going through a law that we don't really know anything about every day. Neither the government side nor the rapporteur have told us much today. On the question of who it concerns, where we see evil, where we see some negligence, how many people it concerns, what is the scale of the tax dimension, what the scale of possible losses... Well, the answer to these questions was neither from the rapporteur nor from the Minister. And that's too bad, 'cause that's the point of the case. We are talking about companies of the Treasury, but in fact most of them are already in private hands. Treasury Company, where we have 100% participation and which has very good results in the last few years, for example the Sports Totalizator. There we can do that, that's what I'm gonna say, anything. As far as I know, there's no pay we're talking about today. That's where the chimney law applies. What about the other companies? Well, what can we boast about here, what's our share? Orlen, 27%; KGHM, 31%; PKO BP, 29%. And the rest? The rest are the other shareholders. Doesn't their opinion count? After all, all these companies are listed on the stock market today. What does the stock market look like after two weeks of rule of law and justice? WIG20, which is the index of the largest companies, some of which I mentioned here, fell below 2 000 points. It was only in the big crisis eight or more years ago. For today, I let myself check it out. We have 1,950 points. That also tells me something. Today we do not ask the co-owners of these companies how they relate to this. Or isn't it worth asking them? After all, people buy stock on the stock exchange, there are funds there, etc. They're also here to decide who we hire, under what conditions, how much we pay. Can you imagine that this is happening today on the principle of guyhood and that someone is coming and signing a contract on their knees? If the treasure minister sees negligence, if he sees the pathology I'm still hearing about, then this is the prosecution's office, there are other organs. There's a board of directors who can cancel, can punish. There's a lot of responsibility. Well, I can't imagine we're gonna control people who, for example, are responsible for the fuel sector. We have Polish fuel companies, but we also have competition, for example from Russia. Wouldn't Lukoil be willing to take over the people who have been so treated as to seek employment? Somewhere else? I think that's understandable. We're talking about compensation today, but we don't know what row. These are amounts. Are we talking millions? Except I haven't heard of millions... private sector... Senator Bierecki said a few million briefings. But this is a private sector, a private thing, and it shouldn't be anyone's... The prohibition of competition or compensation is a form used in many private companies, with or without the participation of the State Treasury. And it didn't surprise anyone. Well, if that's a deal someone's ever agreed to, then... today, if anyone wants to change it... You have most of it. If the Minister of Treasury considers that he will find a man who is competent who will not work in competition for the coming years, who has reached a given position, I do not know, his knowledge, experience or knowledge of the market, and will hire such a person for the national average, then I will only applaud. In my opinion, today's dimension of the work of these people... I don't know how many people we're talking about, because there aren't any numbers, I don't know if it's 10 people, 1,000 people or more. In my opinion, the work of these people is the result that companies achieve. And a few companies that I've allowed myself to check out. The companies that exist in the documents, the companies that we are talking about here, and that probably each of us has in mind. He's got good results. These companies generate profits, increase employment, bring investments that are implemented not only in Poland, but also abroad... For example, KGHM has been investing very heavily in Canada lately. And this is, in my opinion, the dimension of how the management should be assessed, how the company should be assessed. And no, like today, looking at populist lines, saying we're gonna take it away because they don't deserve it, because we make less money or everyone makes less money, and we're gonna have to rip the others out of their throats... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I'm asking Senator Gazwada to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! There have been many different opinions and observations on the bill discussed here, that it has not been preceded by many necessary expertise, opinions that we have not done a proper analysis, spread over time, etc. I will only say that the functioning of this law, the current situation and the lack of appropriate, very necessary actions over the last 8 years have been properly assessed by the best expert By our sovereign. He was the one who noticed that there are very serious abuses, that today we are dealing with a pathological situation, that the presidents who earn on management contracts, bypassing the chimney bill, receive huge wages, and also receive, in a completely unauthorized way, multiple times more checks. It was these people who decided that change was needed. Today we are discussing this bill. I am very pleased and thank the Members of the House that, as the senator has already said here, they have had the courage to submit this bill. And today we have to say out loud that even if it requires some adjustments, we should accept it because of the validity of the law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, let me use the money portal. in July 2012, he recalled the words of the then Deputy Minister of Economy, Minister Tomczykiewicz. At the time, he clearly said: "It is primarily about making it their only source of income. He meant management contracts and the need to introduce them. And he added: 'For very good money responsibility and willingness to work are much greater.' Since 2012, mining companies have been exempt from the chimney law several times, even up to 5 or 6 times more than the chimney law allowed, and the remuneration of the directors of mining companies has been increased. I know the situation here, because I've been involved in the mining, raw materials sector for over 20 years, and I know what happened. The lack of links between management contracts and the concrete results achieved in the sector has led to several billion losses in each of the companies concerned today. What kind of manager hasn't been able to put in a few years to at least survive this very difficult period? What kind of manager who couldn't ask the social side... invite her to the table to look for concrete solutions through dialogue? This is practically a manager employed for a contract of employment, not a manager who applies modern company management practices. And that's why this discussion is taking place today. And that is why today we need to introduce this law, so that such managers simply say thank you, but for good-bye do not give them a multimillion-dollar briefing. That is why today's discussion is so important, and that's why it's so important at such a rapid pace that the bill is being processed. I would like to say that the amount of twenty-few thousand zlotys resulting from the chimney law would be a really worthy remuneration for the manager, for the president or member of the management board of the mining company generating losses, which says that he has good intentions and wants this company out of this, not contracts that are several times larger. That is why I firmly believe that when this law comes into force, it will also give the impression that these changes are going towards maintaining integrity and elementary solidarity with people who cannot understand why people running their business, running their companies in an irresponsible way, are yet to get such high wages. There's one more thing I'd like to stress. We will need to look closely at these situations, observe the possible process of leaving and granting these briefings, as the senator said here, so that such possible abuses may also be shown and stigmatized. I would like to see this law, when it comes into force, brings about a fundamental principle of fairness and solidarity. I will appeal very strongly for us to adopt this law without any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, please speak to Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u94	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I read this bill today, I've already asked my lawyers for an opinion, and I'll say yes. The Act undoubtedly pursues an important social objective, although it would have been more complete if it had also been implemented in the area of remuneration. The social objective that we want to achieve through this law can be achieved through a relatively simple procedure. Among the reservations we read: evil are management contracts. So what's the problem in the chimney bill to delete a record that allows management contracts to be concluded? We delete one record and the problem of management contracts ceases to exist, there is no problem of high compensation, compensation related to the prohibition of competition. Suddenly he's gone. We go the long way, I understand that this is a requirement of the moment, but the fact is that the law has two objectives: social and fiscal. Yeah, I guess so. The social objective in my view will not be achieved because, in the event of new contracts being concluded, these high taxes will be included and we will return to the starting point. It will be the same with the fiscal objective, because where higher taxes cannot be realised... Come back. The fiscal objective can be circumventd after termination of the employment contract or management contract. I do not know whether you are aware that when you terminate a contract, the parties may agree to an agreement other than that indicated at the time of signing the contract. [[What?]] Different. [[But what?]] In place of briefings can e.g. enter into contract contracts or advisory activities and there is no check-in, there is no compensation related to the prohibition of competition. I have been working with the Treasury companies for 25 years and I can say that this is not unusual, I guarantee you. I didn't ask who this bill was about without a goat. Getting ready to speak to you for a moment, I just looked at the program of voluntary departure from the Polish Energy Group from 2015. The scheme includes payments to persons leaving 26 salaries, which would be taxed under this law. Over the third salary It's 70%. I have calculated the difference in tax: at the moment it would be about 30,000 PLN, after the entry into force of this law it will be 64 thousand PLN. We must be aware that today we are introducing a law from which, when it comes to what The senior managers, i.e. the nominees associated with the State Treasury, will elude themselves and the average employees will pay these high taxes. And of course, it's gonna be a rush, and it's gonna get loud, and after a few months, we're gonna get back to the revision, but she's not gonna be in for another year. In my view, a much simpler solution would be if we didn't want to amend the chimney law. A link between this law and the chimney law, e.g. by indicating that the records it contains relate to the persons listed in the catalogue... if I remember, it is in the article. Two chimney laws, but we'd still have to find out which article it's in. Anyway, there's a catalogue of people affected by the chimney bill. And if we make a provision that these amendments today concern the people listed in the chimney law, we will both achieve the social goal that we want to achieve, and we will not harm thousands of others. Let's call them middle-level managers, people leaving as part of a voluntary scheme, or people covered by collective agreements. The need to pay a very high tax, which is disproportionate to the income achieved. That's it, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think a lot has been said about what the purpose of the bill is, who's for, who's against. Allow me to present some summaries of today's debate, but also of what we discussed during committee meetings. I would like to say once again that, just as Senator Gazweda here persuaded us, speaking of these evil managers, etc. It is necessary to change. Once again, I would like to make it clear that the Civic Platform and our political environment are not against this law. There's no club discipline about that, and based on the discussion, I don't think there's any desire to overthrow this bill. Please understand that and please accept that we are also in favour of change, because we would like companies, especially companies of the Treasury, to be managed by the best managers in Poland. But for the fact that what Senator Bierecki was talking about, we were doing a little bit of awkwardly, after eight years of deserved reward. Therefore, I would like to say that you, as the classic has said, do not go this way, that to the goal that you want to achieve... This road leads nowhere. Because, as I understand it, this isn't about the night shift and the shift for the worse. You want change for the better, and for those who expect change to say, "Yes, this is a change for the better!" And the bill in question does not do so. But I still know you're gonna vote her out because you think she should be introduced. We, however, dispute that you should be wise against harm, and not after injury; for then it will harm not only you, but also those whom the law will affect. Many people today have shown this, both during the discussion of the committee and during this debate. I would also like to warn you about what Senator Gazweda was talking about at the committee meeting. We understand that there is an interpretation of the Constitutional Court, and I am glad that for the senator that the interpretation of the Court is something that should be respected. Input time, entry mode, etc., etc. But also understand this... I am here for the second term, and during my first term of office I was proud that the opposition senators were constantly raising the fact that the Senate is a place of good law, that it should be a place of good lawmaking and supervision, that the law should be the best possible. But what we have here today is a complete denial of what I've heard here for four years. I am not talking about the rulers, because you judge us here, and the citizens of the Republic have already judged us for how we did it. Why is this law extremely risky in the context of its implementation in Poland? Ladies and gentlemen, this law enters the tax system. When I participated as a member of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance in many seminars organized by committees, both seymous and senate, but also by the Ministry of Finance, I heard such a general conclusion In addition, it is confirmed in figures. The tax system in Poland compared to GDP and compared to other countries in the world does not appear to be so overstated. It is quite well assessed both by experts and by economic operators. But we are almost the last place in Europe when it comes to the complexity of the tax system, and it is in the assessment of both experts and taxpayers. This law not only does not correct this system, it does not make it more transparent, but makes it even more complicated because of what concerns the unclear circle of people who will be covered by the law or the dates of entry. And even the scandalous thing is... I will refer here once again to senators of this and previous term, senators of Bierecki and Martynowski, who, like a mantra, said: remember one thing: When you introduce something, opinions are sacred. And where's the sanctity? You said Senator Bierecki, who came out: there was a discussion on TV, after all they could observe this discussion on TV and they could write something, say something. I just want to ask and warn: this is not a way of introducing a law in Poland, and if the Senate of the Republic of Poland puts a hand in this, this is not the best solution when it comes to creating a law in Poland. I would also like to say that, as Leszek Czarnobaj, I am in favour of a system concerning the remuneration not only of managers, but of people in Poland at all, being a system for which the Scandinavian countries are the model. When comparing Gini's factor, in which Poland is making good progress, it is obvious that it is not happening, so to speak, to run around the poorest and the richest. But there is already a group of the richest that you would like to include in this proposal. Namely, it is a system that prevails in the United States and Russia. These are the countries with the biggest discrepancies. In the U.S. system there is no idea of the average wage, but when a study is done for the purposes of certain analyses, it turns out that the leading managers of large companies earn a total of 336 times the average in a given state. It's not a model... And you rightly note that what concerns salaries that are received within normal work, but also within the framework of all kinds of compensation, checks and others, is also a certain element of remuneration. So the direction, I think, is good, but the way in which these records are introduced is simply, in my opinion, outrageous. So what is the essence of the Polish Senate, or the Senate at all, means to be a guardian of good law, is completely here, so to speak, at zero level, when it comes to implementation, about the creation of this right. I understand the difficult beginnings of creating by night just any right for political needs. But what I want to say is when politics dominates the law, the rule of law, it's a dictatorship. It was written in the constitution, as I recall, in 1952. And if we want it... If we are in a hurry because something is needed and that is the political will that we have, this will is not enough when it comes to the law. And then there's the question of legal opinion. No legal opinion. And the legal opinions that the lawyers from our Legal Office gave us are just devastating. After all, there is not a single good word about this law, and it is not that it should not be introduced, but what it contains in its contents: vacathio legis, who it concerns, dates of entry into force, etc., etc. Therefore, I would really ask you to take into account that makiawelism is good, but I do not know whether in this case the objective justifies the means that we are introducing in the course of the night change, just any change. This will end tragically for the Polish tax system, for Polish taxpayers and, at least, I am worried for you as a political formation. This factor, I repeat, I am least concerned, but please consider this when adopting such laws, and especially this tax law, which, instead of clarifying the tax system, obscures it even more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u97	Thank you very much. Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u98	Dear Marshal, one of the Senators of the Civic Platform has expressed his surprise at the procedure of adoption or this situation, and I, honourable Members, High Izbo, should be surprised by your surprise, but I am not. This is an example of the approach of some politicians of the Civic Platform, of course, because I would not want to offend those who treat politics and their social activities as a mission... Well, your leading guru of lies and manipulation as prime minister left the country and went to a position in the European Union, insignificant, and we will all agree that he is a politician there who is not noticed. He's not even trying to be the former prime minister of something positive for Europe and for our country... [[Let's get to the point.]] Here we have another vicious question, of course: why so quickly, why so late? [[No, absolutely not.]] [[Let's get to the point.]] [[Ad rem.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Constitutional Tribunal is concerned, you have manipulated, you have set a very bad example, you, Ladies and gentlemen, have begun this dispute. And we're just fixing it. As for the situation we are talking about today, that is, what is happening in the companies of the State Treasury with briefings, it is nothing more than stealing under the law. Ladies and gentlemen, how can we talk about checks of 1 million, 1.5 million, 2 million or 3 million when nearly 3 million young, educated, creative Poles have gone abroad? They followed bread, Ladies and Gentlemen, not to visit or gain experience. Of course, it's good if they get some experience there. [[Mr. Senator, this isn't an election rally.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am at all surprised that everyone, especially the Senators of the Civic Platform, is speaking on a subject that is basically simple. We must support this law, it is our duty, because if we do not support it, it will mean that we are treating politics as an opportunity to raise substantial, huge funds. That's not the way to deal with it. There's been a lot of talk about the chimney system. Ladies and gentlemen, please don't be surprised that we'll be here. At least I repeated the question: where have you been for 8 years? I mean, it could have been fixed. You had absolute power with powerful, powerful media support. You could have done a lot of good things for our country. You didn't do it, you treated the state to a large extent as property, as something from which you could legally draw as much money as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, ownership supervision is a fiction. Because the supervisory boards were issued by politicians of the Civic Platform or their supporters, they were boards... In fact, if the supervisory boards were real... Maybe I'll give you an example. Private entrepreneurs choose supervisory boards in competitions, ads. They take it very seriously, they pick people... [[Family.]] ...who have their opinions, they want their expertise and to use their education and their knowledge as best as possible. After all, there is not much of this in the companies of the Treasury. As far as the boards are concerned, they are politically involved. There's a lot of examples, and I can talk about it for hours. In fact, it was not intended for our companies or companies of the State Treasury to develop, to gain external markets, but simply to enter in, to sign some contract, with powerful compensation, and to, if there is any other power, at least finally to get rich, because 1.5 million or 2 or 3 million checks are very large financial resources. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to supervision, as I said earlier, it did not function. I'm surprised at all that some of the speeches... I am convinced that there are people, politicians in the Civic Platform, for whom, as I said earlier, the welfare of the nation, the welfare of the state means a lot. But some statements are really difficult to take as a substance beyond Mr Augustine's statement. And it is difficult to consider statements in a spirit of respect for the Polish society and the good that is understood more widely as a common good. Mr. Rulewski Although I didn't understand much from his lectures, he was teaching us here, telling us things about... He was talking about secretaries and designers. [[It's for you, it's for you.]] We're not talking about secretaries and designers, Mr. Senator, because I haven't heard such people take a million-dollar briefings. We're just talking about incompetent managers, incompetent boards. And I want to tell you that if it weren't for these capable designers, if it weren't for these smart secretaries and other employees, these companies, all these companies would be drowning in debt, would be in very bad shape. Those managers often walked. They're just going to... they're going to treat it as a political loot that's only going to be connected to getting big money. Ladies and gentlemen, the last issue is the prohibition of competition. I was, and I'm against, banning competition to pay. If an external company wants information in an international sense, it will pay 6 or 9 million. People who dare to take these indecent briefings After all, it's a matter of conscience. With a light hand they will certainly take money from a competitive, foreign company, no matter which side to get even more money. People must be directed to companies of the State Treasury, of course they must be prepared, who... There must be patriotism, because these are companies of the State Treasury, companies which are extremely important also operating in the international arena. To pay him to keep him from saying anything for two years or a year isn't enough. This selection should be based on other criteria. I am convinced that sooner or later we will do so, because the way the Civic Platform is functioning today and to which we are accustomed is simply impossible to maintain in the long run. It's very dangerous for social reasons, but also for reasons... It's like getting used to money, to the fact that money in this case plays a major role. Remember, managers, presidents, executives make really very decent money. Common 50, 100, 150,000 a month. This prohibition should be legally regulated when it comes to admission to work. Let's just say he has to keep a secret for two years after he's gone. And that's his commitment. There are various services that should be watching this, not paying for him not to sell some important business information abroad. This needs to be settled. I hope that in what you're prepared, you'll find it too. We as Senators of Law and Justice will be happy to take part in this so that we can finally close this topic, regulate it in a really decent way. I'll get back to the chimney bill. Ladies and gentlemen, in one, in the other or in the third in the company, this law of chimney works on such examples is mass But it has two or three Councils of the Treasury. And that's where you earn 80 and 100 grand. Bypassing this chimney law is very, very much and we need to seal it sooner or later. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Silence, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad this bill was passed. I think this is the beginning of a road that aims to eliminate what lawyers refer to in literature as the legal looting of property of the State Treasury. Please, what were the legal solutions that had been in place so far, given the huge remuneration, disproportionate to the qualifications, or the results achieved? Mr Senator mentioned here coal companies, which mainly deserved that they generated losses, which in turn did not prevent the managers of these companies from collecting quite a lot of wages. Whether it was on the basis of a contract of employment or, most often, management contracts. Well, that's an obvious pathology to end with, and hopefully as soon as possible. Nor is it a secret to fill these posts, that this was done on a kind of political basis. It was enough to be well arranged with the rulers to get a position, not necessarily fulfilling any minimum conditions for efficient management. Because, ladies and gentlemen, no one's gonna tell me that a physicist is gonna be a great bank manager or some other company. And we have dealt with such cases or cases of people who have often had no idea about management, yet these functions included. So that at the moment we kind of start from the end, but sometimes it's good to start the journey even from the end. Because right now we just want to eliminate the effects of this morbid situation by taxing those compensations granted under the anti-competitive rules or on the grounds that the termination of the employment relationship will take place before the date on which the contract was concluded. I think that the next step should be to regulate, as the previous senators mentioned here, in the chimney law of these matters so as to actually restore normality and that the property of the State Treasury is not the proverbial posture of a dress from which it is yelling for the rulers and their nominates as much as possible. So that I am fully in favour of this bill. Also, ladies and gentlemen, I'm behind her when I look at her from the legal side. I've been a lawyer for many, many years. I see no objection as to its date of entry into force. Because if this bill is signed by the President in November, it will be reasonable, although minimal, to have a vacathio legis which is acceptable in such regulations. I also don't see any other shortcomings that my previous speakers mentioned. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is in my opinion formulated in a clear and transparent manner. It is known who is concerned, what is the scope of this regulation. And the fact that there are no calculations of the financial consequences is that it is a parliamentary project. In addition, the Minister, who had just performed here, has stated that so far the way these companies are managed So let's call it a contractual term, it was that the resort doesn't know how much it spent on distribution, so it's called, it's huge money, and so we don't even know what order it is. These are damage to the state budget. This bill is designed to minimize these damages. That's why I'm signing my name with both hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u101	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to stress once again, although it has already happened many times, that the Civic Platform Club is not against the idea of these records. I come from medicine, like a few ladies and senators, and in medicine we rely on facts. Now the absent Senator Dobrzyński said something about 8 years of negligence, and Senator Cichoń used a sentence: it was enough to be well placed with power to get a position. Let me give you an example of the person who was president of Orlen in 2007 and who, after leaving for a year, was charged 120 thousand PLN per month. Mystery: where did this person work at the time? He was an employee of President Lech Kaczyński's firm. Now that we're talking about facts, let's quote them all. That's why I'm going back to the original idea. I'm sorry I'm gonna use the medical comparison again. This regulation is intended to hurt those mythical bosses who, regardless of the results of their company, collect very high salaries and very high checks or compensation. There is full agreement that in a country of such economic condition as Poland, both these salaries and checks are excessively high. No one's questioning that. And if we want to hurt someone, let us remember that there are worse ricochets than a missile, let us remember what has been said here many times, that these ricochets will hit a crowd of people earning quite moderately, into a crowd of miners, into a crowd of workers in the energy sector, into voluntary departures, into collective agreements, which will result in greater losses for normal earning Poles, hardworking for their money, than the benefits of these records. That is why I will urge that, in accordance with the Minister's words, Although he is no longer present, I asked him whether there was a comprehensive assessment of these high salaries of the State Treasury companies and high clearances, to prepare these regulations in a comprehensive manner, so that the presidents or managers of these companies earn decent money, but not too much in the social sense, and above all in view of the condition of these companies, and at the same time their checks and compensations do not deviate in a gross way from compensations and compensations which can be received by a multitude of hard-working Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were many very important arguments here. First thing, basic. Everyone, I think, is fighting for the prestige of our House. I belonged, among others. to those who strongly opposed the taking of funds by our group from the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad, and there were many other stories that are described in publications, among others. Also mine, on the direction of change in the Senate. We are proud that this year the Sejm accepted 86% Senate amendments, because we are so effective that we are so judged by external experts that our debates, the level of debates in committees, as well as in plenary meetings, compared with the Parliaments, are so judged on different political sides, we have always been given such assessments to the Senate. And that's why, not out of spite, please understand... We are not, in particular in the Senate, a strict opposition. politically, we are here to support substantively, to add value to laws, to improve the law, to care for its quality. That's what we're here for. That's why we're asking why... It is a parliamentary project and there were no other opinions. So all the more so should they appear at the senate stage. This is what you fought for. There's been a few situations... There wasn't a situation to be passed on in one day, but, as I saw, there were three situations in the last term where the next day came to the Senate from the Sejm... And you protested that you didn't respect the Senate. I'm not gonna quote here. And Marshal Karczewski, and many senators... We were quiet then. No one said you were wrong, because we thought working under total pressure was unacceptable when it came to the prestige of this chamber. But there wasn't a situation where we didn't have time for opinions at least. And that's why we're asking what the scope of action is. It's not about 50 or 100 people. But, I'm sorry if everyone here, or at least most of them, is focusing on it, and Senator Bierecki and Mr. Dobrzyński and Senator Gawada were talking about it. We're talking about the briefings of these presidents... okay, it's annoying for me, and for everyone in our club, too. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the issue of this law. Indeed, there are few of these presidents. The million-dollar briefings we've been talking about are tearing down society and, I think, every one of us. But paragraph 15... you talk about one thing, and the bill is about something else entirely. At least halfway. Let's not talk about half-truths. Let's talk about the real content of the bill. For damages granted under the non-compete rules, if the company in which the Treasury, the local government unit, is obliged to pay compensation, so I ask which presidents of large companies? The association of local government units, a state legal person or a municipal legal person... Ladies and gentlemen, these may indeed be assistants or assistants who are banned from... Has it been examined to what extent these non-compete agreements were applied? At the municipal... I'm the chairman of the council committee. And I think that this issue should be examined. Whether in the municipal or in the local... To what extent have these agreements been applied at all? Do they involve a great number of people? And how were the claims calculated? I'm addressing Mr. Counselor Silence, an excellent attorney. After all, compensation for the fact that a person can't work in a certain industry... Of course, he can't... It's obvious it's not like he can't even be banned from work. Well, if such a person is a specialist in a given field and is associated... and has a choice often, let's start a company, then it can actually be limited in terms of choice of work. or even deprived of such a possibility. And here we are talking about damages. In such a situation, will these persons not be able to make a legitimate claim, given the predictability of this leap... Because I understand... Look, it's twice as high as the top bet. In a situation like this, could anybody have expected, calculating... I'm pointing out, this is about compensation, not debriefing. For compensation. And here I'm having second thoughts. And that is why our doubts arise, but also our indications. Senator Terminski is an exceptional specialist in these matters and has clearly pointed out how to circumvent this law. Do we really want to create a weak law that doesn't meet this idea that we all share, that is that there are no briefings to actually preserve this social justice, that a senator or a Member who has to work for up to 24 hours, and gets a tenth of what the president who has on his head... Well, we also have a stressful job, and there are a lot of professionals in this House as well. It's obvious. That is why we are talking about amendments, we are talking about the actual improvement of this law. As for the idea, I support... But when it comes to preparing, especially this point 15, I have serious doubts. Of course, we are not going to vote against, but we want to help fix this bill. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Government! We are debating a law that is not so important from the point of view of the functioning of the whole state. It's true. But, on the other hand, at a time when we talk about tightening the belt, we talk about a short budget quilt, we talk about various difficulties, about the big economic needs that are facing us as a country, the question of how, under the pretext of banning competition, compensation for this, clearance is an opportunity to grant gratification in amounts not least, has the right to upset the public, especially if the average citizen compares those amounts we hear with his income... Well, he can just think about it. High Izbo, in my previous term of office, I asked several dozen budgetary institutions, such as the President's Office, the National Radio and Television Council, various agencies, including the agricultural market, such institutions, to respond to me on the basis of Rb-70 prints, these are prints in which these institutions are required to report these issues to the Ministry of Finance, because this is about the budgetary resources of the average, average remuneration in the institution in terms of ordinary employees, and the average remuneration of executives, managers or directors. Analysis of this information And they're on the Senate's pages because it was in the statements and the answers that came to them point to one fundamental irregularity. Contrary to the fact that there is a chimney law, we are talking about freezing salaries in the public sector, saying whether we were talking about a cost-effective country, divergences in salaries in executive positions and others, have been up to a dozen thousand... In some cases... For example, in the case of the Financial Supervision Commission, the average was by far over PLN 20,000 per month, in one of the agricultural agencies it was about 25 thousand, in the Sejm's Office the average management remuneration was over 20,000. Similarly, different institutions... This shows that for the previous 8 years the sector was not able to control and, on the one hand, the child was fired with a bath, because there was a chimney bill, and it was in companies where management from the top shelf is really required, professional, one that has the opportunity to work in various corporations, and so not such an administrator is looking for a job, only the job is looking for such an administrator, but so that the company of the State Treasury or with the participation of the State Treasury is able to obtain such a specialist for the board of directors... Well, in connection with the chimney bill, a specialist like that won't decide to do it. On the other hand, there are pathologies such as this spectacular case from the times of the Platform's and PSL's governments, i.e. the departure from the Management Board of the Polish Energy Group of its President Krzysztof Kilian and several members of the Management Board after the management of this company lasted just over a year. And what did it turn out to be? All of them received from the company an astronomical amount of nearly PLN 7 million, I stress, 7 million PLN in the form of checks and amounts resulting from the so-called. the prohibition of competition. Moreover, according to the media's discussion of the then Minister Paweł Grass with the president of PKN Orlen, Mr Jack Krawce, the amount of this payment was the main objective of the whole operation. As Minister Graś said on the tapes of the truth: 'Donald put Kilian there for a while to take the briefing.' It is worth remembering that both gentlemen, then Prime Minister and former Member Krzysztof Kilian, later former Minister and later President of PGE, were colleagues from the Liberal Democratic Congress and from a period of close political cooperation between both masters. And that's why this bill is needed. She's needed because she shows the scale of pathology. These weren't isolated cases. Senator Zientarski was just talking about local companies. Mr. Senator, MPWiK in Warsaw is a company whose annual turnover is several billion zlotys. It's a city company. It's a city company. Many companies of the Treasury are poor in terms of turnover, so they are not... There are, yes, some small municipal companies... [[We're talking about scale...]] ...but there are also powerful municipal companies... that is, municipal ones, with the status of municipal companies. But what's going on in them is that we don't really know exactly, despite all the information that's coming to us. In the case of companies of the Treasury, there is some information in the Ministry of Treasury or the Ministry of Ministry, but we do not know much about those companies. But if you read the newspapers, if you read what the media are saying, you'll see that there were different situations in such companies. So, using the motto of decent management compensation, it just led to the situation... Action was on a scale that was difficult to estimate at the moment, but it was not an accident. Thus, simply a gratification instrument was introduced for their own and those who are related to the persons who decide to cast these companies. It is therefore a good thing that this law now enters into force, especially since, as we learned from the media, in many companies which will be subject to this law, different annexes have taken place in the recent period, not annexes to contracts, which provide the so-called. Gold parachute for those who care that they may have to leave these companies. And that's why, High Izbo, I think this bill needs to be passed as soon as possible. It's a good thing we'll make it before that deadline. All indications are that the legislative process for this law will be closed by 30 November. And it is good that we are signaling that, despite many voices opposed, we are changing something in Poland and leading to some elementary honesty... we are going to be honest in public life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u108	I've given myself a moment to prepare a little amendment to this bill, but before I go through with it... here's a lot of talk about the last eight years. I note that the chimney bill has been in existence for more than 15 years and all the crews that ruled during that time were not very able to cope with the high briefings of managers. In order not to look far away, I wrote myself... from the media you can take... Orlen, Piotr Kownacki, 120 thousand zł per month, times of government of PiS; Adam Glapiński, Polkomtel, 1 million zł; KGHM, Krzysztof Skóra... members for 4 months of work received PLN 2.7 million in briefings; Wojciech Heydel, Orlen, PLN 1.5 million for 4.5 months of work. So I've been alluring you from the PiS that this applies not only to the Civic Platform's government, but... [[It's just, it's just, it's just, it's ……]] ...all the teams that ruled, including the left... [[No, there are examples...]] [[Just these...]] [[For today, it's just...]] Let's just leave it alone because it's not important right now. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] No, it's not important right now, we have work to do. The bill needs to be adopted. So that we can accept it so that it will apply from next year, I understand... if there are amendments, then the Sejm will still have to vote. And that is why I would like to make a quick amendment, which is going in the direction in which in my opinion the initiators of this law were going, i.e. to achieve a certain social goal and to reduce high, astronomical checks, prizes, compensations for managers who resign from companies of the Treasury. Shall I read it or just submit it, Mr. Marshal? I'm asking because I have a weak experience in how it's technically done. [[Voice from the room: Just fold.]] [[There's no obligation to read the amendment, you can file it.]] I'll just fold it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u109	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u110	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I want to tell my friends at the PiS that we have never once said that we are opposed to making changes, making good laws. Right in the Senate. That's what my friend Zientarski was talking about. That's a good law we did. We don't want to change that, which is why... [[We're all for it, even against it.]] ...this debate is important, questions are important, and answers are the most important. As you can see from the examples, there are no equals and equals here, there are no people or groups without guilt. Because if we're talking about briefings right now and millions of dollars are coming down... My friends told me what happened eight years ago. After all, we live in the same country, in the same environment. Also a person not mentioned here... I read that President Jacek Walczykowski from Orlen in 19 days of work received a briefing of between 700,000 and several million zlotys. It's not specific because I was looking for it so quickly. I'm not gonna talk about the others anymore, 'cause my friends are... I don't want to duplicate it. Did they deserve it or not? That's how they agreed, that's how they signed it. Today, all we can do is media discussion here and outrun each other's names. I would like to appeal to Senator Dobrzyński, who has very emotionally appeared here, that the elections are over and there is no need to mention things today, but we need to discuss the point in substance rather than everything about it. I would like these amendments to be tabled The session of the Sejm is still in session. The Sejm has thought about it. Maybe he'll think they're worth leaning over them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u111	Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u112	High Izbo! It happened recently. And that's good news for law and justice. Mr Morawiecki, perhaps one of the presidents, if not the president of one of the banks, I do not forget the name, did a very noble thing, namely he resigned from the bank and became minister. This means in a material sense that he left the bank, but, as I understand it, there was a provision of compensation in his contract, and now according to that law, this compensation for the management of the bank will be taxed at 70%. ... I do not mean to say that this is a common or mass phenomenon, but I would like to draw attention to another fact, that, in the labour market policy of the people referred to here, from miners to teachers or energy professionals, they were part of the regulation of the labour market, creating a soft landing for a modernising economy, making this process easier. If this tax barrier is created, it may mean that this element of regulation, namely the modernisation of the economy, will be slowed down and will not be able to achieve the goals which, moreover, the Law and Justice also set itself. As you know, Law and Justice wants to quickly terminate the middle school, return to the old system. And yet this means that teachers from 7,000 junior high schools will change jobs, at least a place of work, if not a salary. That's a letter of resignation. This in turn means the right of union to negotiate in terms of job change, as well as in relation to officials, officials ..and not only that.. This includes teachers' briefings. And check-ins mean costs. [[Three months.]] [[Three months.]] Sorry, three months. You're right, Mr. Senator, this is a basic condition. But the trade unions in collective disputes and life proved that the stronger, the larger the more they will demand a 12-month check-in due to the fact that the teacher is out of work. And that's why this caution... And here I agree that the chimney bill, which is not model, is not some regulator. The thing is, I'm going to say, the fire department's piss to shorten the chimneys. But it specified the groups that were to be covered by these provisions, just the ones that you were referring to. So the simplest conclusion, which maybe later... Let's pretend today that we made a mistake... that means the authors made a mistake. And the revised chimney law could achieve those goals that Senator Dobrzyński and other Members or Senators spoke about, and the Platform, which finally also I'm gonna have to add this up a little bit maliciously. She decided to break the impasse around this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u113	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Lyczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to start a little different. I had two meetings today. One with the inhabitants of Włocławek, this very poor Włocławek today, and the other with the Kujawski farmers near Nieszawa. And I want to tell you something that was very important to me. At these meetings What was the atmosphere, you must have guessed. I did not hear a single voice similar to the voices we heard yesterday in the Seym or during today's debate from the state on the left, from no one that we were doing something too fast. In fact, there were reminders: change this country as soon as possible, don't look at it or listen to what the opposition says, because it was the opposition that led to the situation we have at the moment. For what could be the feeling of this meeting with the inhabitants of Włocławek The poor Włocławka, who so far had a certain color, although now this color is changing? They were talking about these robbers' briefings, these robbers' briefings, when they earn 1 thousand or 1 thousand 500 zlotys themselves. That's why they asked and begged us to change everything as soon as possible. Even worse feelings were in a meeting with farmers. I specifically chose to meet this place, Nieszawa, where, as some privy people know, was the famous PSL-own company Jantur, who robbed peasants, yes, farmers and the Treasury, for 82 million PLN. For five years... [[He's convicted...]] Please don't disturb me. For five years with impunity... Once they stood up in court, once they didn't stand trial... Now justice has finally been served, and these gentlemen have probably been sentenced. The peasants went even further because they also asked to make the quickest changes in the countryside, because the village is now bankrupt. And you know why? Because today, in Kujawy, 3 zł was paid for the pig, yes, Mr Rulewski, 3 zł and 85 gr for milk. Not more than two days ago, our President Duda was advertising the export hit of Poles during his visit to China. What's the hit? Polish healthy food. But if we do not change anything, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no healthy food in a moment, because the Polish countryside will fall. That's why the peasants asked for a change as soon as possible and as soon as possible to account for those of the previous team who brought it to this state. The peasants believe that for those who have bankrupted the Polish countryside, the best hotels are in which the windows are protected by bars. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u115	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rooster. [[Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u116	Why are you sighing so hard? Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I would like to begin by congratulating the group of Members for actually introducing this law. I would like to say to you, Senator, that as a longtime union activist, the NSZZ Solidarity Association would support this law with two hands! 'Cause when the chimney bill was passed, And Jasio, Senator Rulewski, knows it well. The main task of this law was to reduce such pathological increases. And there was a proposal that the management staff should earn five times more. But what is happening now, after eight years of your governments, PO and PSL governments, calls for vengeance to God. A bunch of smart guys who came to power... I can tell because there's a representative... Senator Grodzki talked about the railroad, so I'm going to talk about it on the example of the railroad. It was a place where the guys would go to work for a year, and after a year, they would get fired, and they'd be briefed in 24 months. So you're going to count it now: before that, five railroad presidents made 50 grand. Yeah, five railroad presidents. And now one president of PKP SA has PLN 100,000 per month. And the employee has the lowest salary. So what are we talking about, folks? I'm surprised at Senator Robert and how he talked about Orlen. The President of Orlen has already taken 6.5 million briefings! Don't hide from the employees because the employee has a code check, he's got a 3-month code check. Everyone, as bad as he is, and especially now the opposition, is screaming about an employee. I appeal to my fellow Member of the "Solidarity" and a friend of Jan Rulewski: Jasiu, respect the President, the authority of the President! Not that at the second Senate meeting it's like it's a beating boy. Ladies and gentlemen, have you forgotten? For eight years, we've been folding. I was sitting here, just like I'm sitting here. A lot of adjustments. But you didn't get any arguments because the decisions were political. And at the end, Mr. and Mrs. Dear I am speaking to the new Senators of the PO... Prime Minister Kopacz said: if you vote otherwise, you will not be on the letters. What, have you forgotten about this? When I said it would come to such a time that we would take power and show human face, it would be some senators, among others. No longer here, they came out to me and said, "You will not come to power in 100 years! However, Providence was watching, and the voters were tired of these liberal-boy governments and enslavement, creating a class of superoligarchs and a class of super-poor people. And we were laughed at, as we said about the laws, Dear Lords, for the poorest, for the families of many children. They laughed: what do they want? And at the end, everyone grabbed it. And, ladies and gentlemen, really congratulations to those Members who have introduced this law. Let's not be afraid. And here are the numbers, how many of these people are going to be: probably 300,000 or 3 million won't get these briefings. After all, you can count how many companies are in the Treasury. You know what was on the railroad? They called me today. Young people were taken as long as there was the right option, and in order to circumvent all the agreements, they were made by some project managers and paid contract wages of PLN 30,000. And we're worried about a poor secretary who has 2,000 zlotys. Jasia, you've only given one extreme case. I really respect you, but at the last meeting, I swore I wouldn't speak. But, gentlemen, respect the authority of the President. Mr. President's only been in charge for a few months, and you'd already want miracles. Well done, Mr. President. He's got such a tough hand. He is a very honest, very righteous man, and, Dear State, above all, defends the good of the Republic, and not defends the agreements, which everyone in the agreement does not like. Now he's yelling for the Court. Who started it? Ladies and gentlemen, who started the amendment of the bill to play? Because in the end, you thought you were gonna lose this election, and you wanted the Court to reject all the laws. But it didn't really happen. After all, Dear Lords, we must be here. And I'd be surprised if Senator Napieralski and Senator Borowski said otherwise. I'm really defending justice. Really defend her and eliminate those superoligarch and super-poor classes. Where's the middle class? The middle class, Jasi road, was to be created in privatisation. And what was done? This country's been stolen. And now we're surprised and everyone says experts. And what were the experts like when you introduced laws, many laws? I don't want to remind you. But today a friend of Jackowski approached me and gave me a resolution on Henry Sienkiewicz. I signed it. But what was his great-grandson doing? An affair in the cafe of Owl and Friends. That's what nobody's talking about, and today he's grabbing... As if the president, I don't know, tied his tie wrong, they'd already criticize that he's wearing the wrong tie. And the Prime Minister couldn't even say goodbye. Because her last speech in Parliament left a lot to be desired. And Mr. and Mrs. Dear, even though Mr. Kwasniewski was president, as I was asked abroad, I kept saying: "I respect the office of President. I do not speak about the President, but I respect the office of President as a citizen of the Republic of Poland. And, Jan, do you know what John Paul II said to "Solidarity" on the 15th anniversary of the establishment of "Solidarity"? He thanked us for not being a left-wing relationship, for being a personalist relationship, for defending the subjectivity of the family and the subjectivity of man. He left a will for the Solidarity. And isn't that subjectivity at stake these days? Ladies and gentlemen, let's see what unemployment is like, what poverty is, how many children in schools are malnourished. Maybe I won't be dragging this thread around anymore. But respect this President, the office of president. I know it doesn't suit you that a young boy with a titanium job won this election. Look, he doesn't walk around with a card and he doesn't read, and all he says is out of his mind. And that wasting 70% support and losing history should take care of it. So that, ladies and gentlemen, I really congratulate the group of Members. Thank you for maybe an emotional approach, but, Dear Lords, really more respect, not constantly saying that wrong, wrong, wrong. Remember 8 years: every amendment has been abolished. You walked in and laughed as the amendments were tabled, you just looked at the votes. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Stasio, you hit it. I've known him for 20 years...]] [[Voice from the room: Why! Was it different?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u117	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Nutchowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Rado! I am briefly a parliamentarian, but I am appalled by today's discussion. The Civic Platform says he's doing everything he can to cooperate. I don't see it. You're doing everything you can to throw away all the laws that have been discussed so far. We're talking about huge briefings. In order for you to get an extra 1.5 million check-ins of X, you have to work 3,000 employees who get $2,000 each. I am from a voivodship where an employee who gets 2,000 thinks he earns very well, which is why I ask you: respect your voters, respect us, Poles. Because it can't be. What I've heard is that if this bill goes through right now, there's gonna be a way in the accounting offices to figure out how to avoid all these changes, and somehow to settle things differently, what does it say? That the accounting offices are dishonest? I don't know. Answer your own question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u119	Thank you very much... [[Voice from the room: It is best to hang the white flag immediately.]] [[Senator, please behave yourself. We're not all guilty, as you think.]] Excuse me... [[Sorry, Mr. Senator provoked me.]] [[Voice from the room: New amendments...]] Mr. Senator... I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing... [[The voice from the hall: Jack, you've taken advantage of time.]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry! I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Rulewski, Senator Grodzki and Senator Terminski. The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the hall: Jackie, twice the time used.]] [[Voice from the hall: There was my voice...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: But the discussion is over!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Until the debate is closed...]] Mr. Senator, first of all, the senator has spoken twice. Secondly, I informed you that the list of speakers was exhausted. [[Voice from the Chamber: Yes, and the discussion has already been concluded.]] [[Only until the discussion is closed...]] [[Mr. Marshal, according to the regulations, I'm entitled to 10 minutes plus 5 minutes.]] But in his opinion... [[This is true, so that I did not use... Secondly, I am not going to speak, and as you wish, I just want to make one more amendment. Will you allow it?]] [[Voice from the room: You may, but in discussion.]] Excuse me, but according to the legislator, I've already closed the discussion... [[What, what? Please?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I've already closed the discussion at this point. [[But the corrections can be...]] When we're closed... I'm sorry. [[Voice from the Chamber: Until the discussion is closed.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. Calm down, please. Mr. Senator, I know the rules. After the discussion is closed, in my opinion, I cannot accept the amendments. I cannot accept legislative proposals after the discussion has been concluded on this point. [[Thank you...]] Is that so? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Thank you for instructing me. I'm sorry.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after the break. The second point, concerning the committee, covers only the vote. It will be held in the voting block. The Commission needs an hour's rest, and I am announcing a break until 18.10. [[Voice from the room: An hour and fifteen minutes...]] An hour and 15 minutes? That's until 6:30. I'm declaring a recess until 6:30 p.m.... Message.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u120	Message. The meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the examination of the applications submitted at the third Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals Thank you. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 09 to 18 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u121	Resuming session... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Resume the session! Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the second item on the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, gentlemen of the Senators... I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 20. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee at its meeting today examined senators' proposals for changes in the membership of Senate committees and recommended that the High House adopt a draft resolution. I'll read it because it's very short. Art. 1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Maciej Grubski from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Art. 2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, selects Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad; Senator Maciej Grubski to the Committee on National Defence; Senator Maria Panczyń-Podziej to the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. The resolution shall enter into force on the day of its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u123	Thank you, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? Thank you. I don't see any calls. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favor of the senators? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. I give the results of the vote: 85 senators voted, 84 were in favour, no one opposed, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. Thank you very much. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act. The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 19 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The joint committees of the National Economy and Innovation Commission and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances considered the proposals submitted at today's meeting, there were three of them. Senator Grodzki withdrew his first motion to reject the bill. Then he was put to the vote by the second motion, which was the most recent proposal, i.e. the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and he was adopted: 10 senators were in favour, no one voted against, five senators abstained. So we're asking for the bill to be adopted without any amendments. Thank you... And one more point: Mr Terminski's request was not made as a minority request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion you presented Senator Tomasz Grodzki, Senator Przemysław Terminski and Senator Jan Rulewski. I remind you that Senator Tomasz Grodzki withdrew his application to reject the law, item I in print no. 19 Z. Does any of your senators want to maintain the withdrawal? No. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt a law without amendments. If this proposal is rejected, the amendments will be voted on. We are voting on the proposal from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to adopt the law without amendments. Who among you is in favour of the bill without amendments? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Thank you very much. Please report the results. I give the results of the vote: 89 senators voted, 59 votes in favour, no one voted against, 30 senators abstained. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax. Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the third Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that you will be notified by e-mail of the date and order of the next Senate meeting. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. Senator statements are not discussed. [[I'm here, Mrs. Marshal. I'm here.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You're welcome, Senator Jackowski. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, let's wait for those of you who want to leave the room to leave in peace. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a moment, Mr. Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's a bit of a bust. You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u126	Thank you very much, Marshal. Declaration addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. In recent years, there has been a very dynamic development of wind energy in Poland, and in recent years the inhabitants of various municipalities from northern Mazovia have reported to my Senator's office more and more deeply concerned about how to make investments in the construction of wind farms in their territory. I would therefore like to ask whether your government is planning to submit a draft law to the Polish Parliament which would lay down rules for the location and construction of wind installations. Thank you in advance for providing detailed explanations on this matter. And a second statement, addressed to the Minister of Environment. Minister! I'm asking for information on the measles bill prepared by your resort a few years ago. To date, the problem of the burden of mass-scale meat production for rural residents has not been solved. This problem is particularly felt in northern Mazowsze, in my constituency, in the Mławski and Żuminski districts. I ask the Minister whether a draft law should be expected in the near future, which would lay down rules for the location and construction of large farms and pigsty. Thank you in advance for the explanation of the present case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-senat-03-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak again? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. I ask Senator Secretary to read the messages. [[There's no messages.]] I would like to inform you that the minutes of the third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 18 minutes 41]]
