ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I would like to call on Marcin Duszek and Łukasz Schreiber to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Marcin Duszek. [[But it's almost hour. Ten...]] Almost an hour. 10. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries to take their seats. They've already taken care of [[In three...]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Social Policy and Family Policy - at 3 p.m. 10, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Infrastructure - immediately after the end of the joint meeting with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - at 3 p.m. 11, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - at 3 p.m. 12.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Police and some other laws (print No 154). I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Mark Opioła to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. The proposed law aims to bring the system of law into line with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 30 July 2014 (sign. Act K 23/11). In the WW. the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal found that the provisions of the laws chosen had not been complied with. This is eight laws. I'd like to replace them. These are the laws on Police, Border Guard, Tax Control, Military Gendarmerie and Military Authorities, Internal Security Agency and Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service and Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Bureau and Customs Service. These eight laws were found incompatible with the Constitution as a result of the Court's judgment. The judgment was delivered on 6 August 2014. These dates are very important, High Izbo, because we had a lot of differences in this case between the opposition and the coalition, i.e. the ruling party. The Constitutional Tribunal, at the request of the Ombudsman and the Prosecutor General, examined the constitutionality of the laws containing regulations on operational control, the acquisition of telecommunications data, the protection of professional secrecy in the course of operational control and the destruction of unnecessary telecommunications data. The draft law, by strictly implementing the operative part of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 30 July 2014, also takes into account the essential part of the minimum requirements laid down by the Court in the statement of reasons for that judgment, which together should comply with the provisions of the laws standardising the secret acquisition by public authorities in a democratic state of the right of information about persons. The project therefore addresses the following issues. High Izbo! I would like to present in nine points what are the most important assumptions of the proposed law, 1. Operating control and access to telecommunications data. In the explanatory memorandum to the Court's judgment, the Court pointed out an indeterminate legal catalogue of situations justifying the order for operational control in the course of operations and investigations carried out by the Police, Border Guard, tax intelligence, Military Gendarmery, Military Counterintelligence Service and the Internal Security Agency in respect of offences prosecuted under international agreements and agreements, State security offences, the economic grounds of the State or the security of the Armed Forces, MON organisational units and States ensuring their reciprocity. Although challenged before the Court of First Instance, the provisions containing the above-mentioned terms (in paragraph 1 of the judgment of the Court of First Instance). K 23/11) was considered conditionally in line with the Constitution, but in the explanatory memorandum to the Court's judgment, the Court noted that the rules in force do not specify exactly what offences are involved or exactly what normative acts are included. In view of the above, in the design: Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 8 of the Police Act, Art. 9e paragraph. 1 point 7 of the Border Guard Act, Art. 36c paragraph. 1 point 5 of the Tax Control Act, Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (9) of the Military Gendarmery Act was clarified that operational control could be ordered in respect of offences prosecuted under international agreements ratified with prior agreement expressed in the Act, as defined in the Polish Criminal Act. In addition, in the draft article. 9e paragraph. Point 1 (4) of the SG Act clarifies the catalogue of criminal offences that have been committed in connection with the crossing of the state border or the movement of goods and excise goods subject to excise marking, as well as the items set out in the arms, ammunition and explosives legislation, as well as the prevention of drug abuse. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on ABW and AW (amended article). Point 7 (1) (a) (a) the catalogue of offences for which operational control may be used to identify, combat and prevent them has been clarified. The purpose of the clarification is to comply with paragraph 1 of the judgment of the Court and has been taken into account by establishing, on the basis of the systematics of the Criminal Code, a closed catalogue of the types of offences which are equivalent to those contested by the Court of Justice of the concept of criminal offences contrary to the economic basis of the State. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Military Gendarmery Act, a closed catalogue of offences has been drawn up for which operational control may be ordered at the request of the Head of Service. In addition, in order to avoid possible undermining of the evidence collected during the operational control, the project proposes that, as the authority empowered to request an operational control order, an operational control order in cases of urgency and a request for an extension of the operational control be followed by the CBA Head also authorised by the CBA. The relevant provisions of the other laws are also clarified in this way. Referring to the proceedings in the case initiated by the Prosecutor-General's request concerning compliance with Article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland of provisions which disregard the prosecutor as an entity entitled to initiate appeal proceedings against the decision of the court on operational control, the draft proposes to take account of the resulting request. Account shall be taken of the introduction into the draft of an appropriate amending provision which provides for the power of the prosecutor to complain about the order of the court on operational control. Based on the need to organise the catalogue of data obtained by authorised services from entrepreneurs operating in the wider field of communication, as well as to harmonise the wordings used in the various services laws, in the proposed law: First, instead of describing this information so far as to identify the person using postal services and concerning the facts, the circumstances of the provision of postal services or the use of those services have been introduced by the concept of postal data, defining by reference to Article. Article 82 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 1 of the Postal Law of 2012; Second, the obligation of an electronic service provider to provide electronic information on the data referred to in Article 18 of the Law of 18 July 2002 was clarified. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 5 of this law, to the authorities of the State for the purposes of their proceedings, (Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 ww. laws); - the clarification consists in the subject matter of linking the content of the right to obtain these data with the authorities of the State specifically indicated in the laws amended by this Act; thirdly, by clarifying the provisions of the Law of 16 July 2004 on Telecommunications Law, a closed catalogue of data on persons held by telecommunications undertakings other than telecommunications data which authorised services may obtain in order to prevent or detect criminal offences has been established. In this way, the provisions of the Act concerning all services eligible for the acquisition of the above mentioned services are clarified. data. With regard to the provision of data, it has been indicated that telecommunications, postal and Internet data can only be made available for the purpose of carrying out specific tasks set out in the Act governing the activity of the authorised service, with the designation of the scope of these tasks being adapted to the specific characteristics of the service. 2. Types of classified means of obtaining information. High Izbo! In the current legal situation applicable to all laws governing the services authorised to apply this means of obtaining information, operational control shall be conducted secretly and shall consist, first, of checking the content of correspondence, secondly, of controlling the content of consignments, thirdly, of applying technical measures enabling the information and evidence to be obtained and maintained in secret, and in particular of the content of telephone calls and other information transmitted via telecommunications networks. In response to the Court's reasoned judgment, the Court's expectations regarding the clarification in the law of a kind closed catalogue of measures and methods of action by which public authorities may secretly collect information about persons, the legislator, respectively, in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 and 6a of the Police Act, Art. 9e paragraph. 7 and 7a SG Act, Art. 36c paragraph. 4 and 4a Tax Control Act, Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 and 7a of the Act on CWW, art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 and 6a of the Act on ABW and AW, art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and 4a of the Act on SKW and SWW and art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 and 5a of the CBA has defined comprehensively and uniformly for all authorised services the way in which operational control is carried out together with the necessary exemptions. According to the project, operational control is carried out in secret and consists, first, of obtaining and maintaining the content of conversations conducted by technical means, including by means of telecommunications networks, second, of obtaining and recording the image or sound of persons from premises, means of transport or places other than public places, thirdly, of obtaining and recording the content of correspondence, including correspondence by electronic means, fourthly, of obtaining access to and checking their contents, fifthly, of obtaining and recording data contained in electronic communications data media, terminal devices, IT systems and ICTs. 3. Period of operational control. In the current legal state, the rules do not limit the maximum duration of operational control. The existing legal arrangements, which are generally uniform for all authorised services, provide that the operational control is to be administered by the competent court for a period of no more than 3 months, but that court may, at the written request of the Head of Service, after obtaining the written consent of the competent operator, issue a provision for a one-off extension for a period of no more than a further three months if the reasons for that inspection have not ceased. In addition, where new circumstances arise during the application of operational control to prevent or detect criminal offences or to establish the perpetrators and to obtain evidence of the offence, the competent court, at the written request of the Head of Service, after obtaining the written consent of the competent prosecutor, may issue a decision to carry out operational control for a period also marked after the expiry of the abovementioned notice. periods, that is, all the time. In fulfilling the request of the Constitutional Tribunal to specify in the Act the maximum duration for the conduct of classified activities after which the continuation of such activities is inadmissible, in the draft, as appropriate, in the draft Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 Police Act, Art. 9e paragraph. 10 SG Act, Art. 36c paragraph. 7 Tax Control Act, Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 10th Law on CWW and Art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 of the CBA - the maximum period of application of operational control is clearly defined. These amended provisions provide that, after the expiry of the periods for which operational control has been ordered, i.e. no more than 3 months - the first order of the court, no more than a further three months - a one-off extension of the operational control by the order of the court, it will be possible, on the basis of the order of the court, to extend, after expiry of the abovementioned period. the two periods of operation for subsequent consecutive periods, but the total extension period for those operational control services, not including the first two extensions, shall not exceed 12 months. Thus, the total duration of driving by WW. the operational control services in the case in question, including all extensions, shall not be able to exceed 18 months. High Izbo! In view of the specificities of the tasks carried out by the special services carrying out counter-intelligence activities, these restrictions have not been introduced with regard to the operational control used by those services. In the designed article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 Act on ABW and AW and Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 of the Act on SKW and SWW has been established that if new circumstances arise in the course of the application of operational control to prevent or detect criminal offences or to establish the perpetrator and to obtain evidence of criminal offences, operational control may be extended for successive periods, none of which may last for more than 12 months. The extension of the review will be decided by the court which has given its consent to carry it out, which will ensure that an independent authority is controlled on the regularity of the activities undertaken by those services. The adoption of such a solution in relation to special services carrying out counter-espionage and counter-terrorism tasks is necessary in view of current security threats, inter alia. in the context of the currently adopted modus operandi of perpetrators of crimes such as terrorist offences, espionage or sabotage. It is worth noting here that the proposed definition of the maximum operating time remains in line with Article. 180a paragraph. 1 point 1 of the Act of 16 July 2004. Telecommunications law providing for the obligation of operators of the public telecommunications network and providers of publicly available telecommunications services to retain and store at their own expense the data referred to in Article. 180c of the Act, for a period of 12 months, counting from the date of the merger or failed attempt to merge. It should be stressed that analytical work plays an important role in identifying, detecting and preventing crimes, including in particular spy, terrorist, organised group or criminal relationship. 4. Rules and procedures concerning the verification and destruction of telecommunications, postal and online data unnecessary for the conduct of the proceedings. In order to implement paragraphs 8 and 9 of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal declaring the provisions of the Act on the ABW and AW, the Act on SKW and SWW and the Act on CBA to the extent that they do not provide for the destruction of telecommunications and postal data of no relevance to the conduct of the proceedings, the draft Act introduces a uniform procedure for all services to deal with these data. According to the draft article. 20c Police Act, Art. 10b Act on SG, Art. 36ba Tax Control Act, Art. 30th Act on CWW, Art. 28 laws on ABW and AW, art. 32 law on SKW and SWW, art. 18 CBA and Art. 75d of the Act on SC, telecommunications and postal data which are relevant for criminal proceedings shall be transmitted to the competent prosecutor who shall decide on the extent and use of the data transmitted. Materials which are not relevant for the conduct of the proceedings shall be subject to immediate, committee and protocol destruction. The same rules will also apply to the handling of online data. 5. Authorities and control procedure for the collection of telecommunications, postal and online data. High Izbo! Unlike the regulations relating to the provision of telecommunications and postal data, the existing rules provide for enhanced prosecutorial and judicial supervision of the conduct of operational control by authorised services. This supervision has been carried out since the initial stage of authorisation - operational control may be ordered or extended by the court after prior authorisation by the prosecutor - through the obligation to inform the prosecutor of the conduct and results of that inspection, the rules and procedures for the use of the operational control material in criminal proceedings and the destruction of those materials, ending with an information obligation to the Sejm and the Senate. In fulfilling paragraph 5 of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal declaring non-compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the current rules which do not provide for independent control of the provision of telecommunications data referred to in Article. 180c and 180d of the Telecommunications Law, the draft law proposes that the entity authorised to control the acquisition of telecommunications data be: the district court competent for the seat of the entity authorised to submit an application - with regard to the Police, Border Guard, Customs Service, the military district court competent for the Military Police Authority, the District Court in Warsaw - with regard to the tax control body, the Internal Security Agency and the Central Anti-corruption Office and the Military District Court in Warsaw - with regard to the Service of Military Counterintelligence. At the same time, authorised formations were required to report to the court referred to above every six months, including: the number of cases in which telecommunications, postal or online data are collected during the reporting period and their type, the types of offences in connection with which postal or online telecommunications data are requested, the number of cases indicating their division into the types of cases in which data are requested. Within the framework of the audit, the district court may refer to the material justifying the access to the data. The General Court shall inform the Head of Service of the results of the inspection within 30 days of its completion. 6. Rules for dealing with materials which may contain information covered by professional secrecy, i.e. notarial, solicitor, legal adviser, tax advisor, medical, journalistic or statistical, or are subject to evidence bans. High Izbo, having regard to the need to comply with paragraph 6 of the judgment of the Court relating to the non-constitutionality of the rules governing operational control due to the lack of regulation providing for the guarantee of immediate Commission and protocol destruction of materials containing information subject to prohibition of evidence on which the court did not waive professional secrecy or the repeal was inadmissible, the rules for the handling of materials obtained in the framework of operational and exploratory activities, which may contain information covered by professional secrecy, have been introduced in the various pragmatic laws. In the design: Art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 15f-15j Police Act, art. 9e paragraph. 16f-16j Act on SG, Art. 36d paragraph. 1f-1i Tax Control Act, Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 16f-16j act on ŻW, art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 15h-15l of the Act on ABW and AW, art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 14f-14j Act on SKW and SWW, art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 15f-15j of the CBA law, it is proposed that, in the event that it is assumed that the materials obtained from the operational control will contain information constituting secrets related to the pursuit of the profession or functions referred to in Article. 180 § 2 K.p.k. - notarial, barrister, legal counsel, etc. - or contain the information referred to in Article. 178, Art. 178a or 180 § 3 K.p.k., Head of Service will hand them over to the competent prosecutor. The prosecutor shall then refer them immediately to the court which ordered the operational control, together with a request for a statement which of the materials transmitted contain the information referred to in the above-mentioned provisions of K.p.k., as well as the authorisation for use in criminal proceedings of materials containing information which constitutes secrets related to the pursuit of the profession or functions referred to in Article. 180 § 2 Code of Criminal Procedure, not covered by the prohibitions laid down in Article. 180, Art. 178, Articles 178a and 178a. 180 § 3 K.p.k., excluding information on the offences referred to in Article. 240 § 1 of the Penal Code. The Court of First Instance shall, when giving its decision to allow such materials to be used in criminal proceedings, be bound by the same conditions as those referred to in Article. 180 § 2 K.p.k., i.e. the good of justice and the fact that circumstances cannot be determined on the basis of other evidence. The court is also to manage the destruction of materials the use of which is unacceptable in criminal proceedings. The order of the court to establish the admissibility of the use of these materials in criminal proceedings will have a complaint to the prosecutor. The Head of the authorised service shall inform the Prosecutor without delay of the implementation of the destruction order. 7. Revision of the Telecommunications Law Act. The proposed law contains the provision of Article. 8 repealing Article 8 180g of the Law of 16 July Telecommunications Law. The need to repeal this provision arises from the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 8 April 2014. In that judgment, the Court annulled Directive 2006/24/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2006 on the retention of data generated or processed in connection with the provision of publicly available electronic communications services or the provision of public communications networks and amending Directive 2002/58/EC. Consequently, it lost the legal basis contained in Article. 180g obligation for telecommunications undertakings to provide the President of the Office for Electronic Communications with the information referred to in Article. 180g paragraph. 1 of the Act and then the obligation for the President of the European Commission to communicate this information. In exchange for the repealed regulation, in order to provide the public with the necessary information, the draft law provides for the annual submission by the Minister of Justice of information on the processing of telecommunications data and the results of the checks carried out by 30 June of the year following that covered by it to the Sejm and the Senate, Article. Point 5 (3) of the project. 8. Revision of the Act on the provision of services by electronic means. The proposed law introduces a provision concerning Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Act of 18 July 2002 on the provision of services by electronic means, which regulates the issue of non-payment for data received from electronic service providers. 9. Final provisions. In view of the delay in the judgment of the Court of First Instance. K 23/11 the loss of force of the rules challenged by the Court has been accepted as a principle that the draft rules on the handling of operational control materials and telecommunications and postal data should be applied in the designated areas in proceedings initiated after the entry into force of the proposed law. In view of the above, the draft in Article. 13 provides that the operational control which was carried out before the date of entry into force of the proposed law and which has not been completed by that time shall be subject to the existing provisions and in Article. 15 concerning procedures for the making available of telecommunications data and the identification of the person using postal services which were initiated before the date of entry into force of the proposed law and have not been completed by that time, as well as the telecommunications and postal data obtained in those proceedings, it is concluded that the existing provisions apply to these proceedings and the data collected. In view of the project's limitation of the maximum duration of operational control managed at the request of the competent police authority, Border Guard, Revenue Control and Military Gendarmerie in Article. The 14th draft contains a regulation whereby the requests made before the date of entry into force of this Act by those services for operational control are the basis for the Court to order the checks under the procedure laid down in those provisions in the wording of the proposed law. On completion of this operational control as a result of the expiry of the deadline, operational control may be ordered once in accordance with the principles laid down in the proposed law. In view of the clarification of the catalogue of offences authorising the ABW to apply for an operational control order, the draft contains a provision - Article. 16 - providing that the existing provisions apply to the operational control initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act. This provision shall also include an extension of the operational controls referred to in paragraph. 8 and 9 of the current Act on ABW and AW, and which lasts at the time of the entry into force of the amending Act. Therefore, the extension of the operational control referred to in paragraph. 8 and 9 of the current Act on ABW and AW will take place on the basis of existing regulations. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law presented by me takes into account the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in respect of the provisions governing the scope of the conditions governing the conduct of operational control and the provision of telecommunications data, the protection of professional secrecy in the course of the activities carried out, the destruction of unnecessary telecommunications data, the determination of the scope and mechanisms of control over the acquisition of telecommunications data, the determination of means of discreet acquisition of information about individuals, the determination of the maximum period of operational control, the publication of information on telecommunications data obtained by authorised services. In addition, the project I am presenting here today introduces the same legal protection guarantees as those obtained by authorised telecommunication, postal and online data services. High Izbo! Therefore, the basic effect of the proposed law will be to implement constitutional principles and guarantees in the manner indicated by the Constitutional Tribunal. It can be expected that the entry into force of the proposed regulation will help to build the confidence of individuals in secret actions undertaken by police services and State protection services, in particular by increasing the transparency of the rules and by laying down precise procedures in this area of functioning of the State. I therefore request that the above-mentioned proposal be adopted on behalf of the applicants. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u5	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc will be the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to refer to the draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws in print No 154. The Constitutional Tribunal, at the request of the Ombudsman and the Prosecutor General, examined the constitutionality of the laws containing regulations on operational control, the acquisition of telecommunications data, the protection of professional secrecy in the course of operational control and the destruction of unnecessary telecommunications data. As far as this decision is concerned, the following conclusions are being drawn. Firstly, the Court did not call into question the admissibility of operational and exploratory activities, their application in a democratic state of law. All of us, in our right mind, see the specifics of criminal activity and the increasingly difficult conditions for ensuring security caused by the threat of terrorism, organised crime or the use of the latest technologies by criminals in order to communicate with each other and commit various crimes. If we are in favour of combating negative phenomena in the form of non-compliance with responsibilities such as State tributes, undisclosed business activities, money laundering, unauthorised use of capital links between entities, if we are in favour of criminal offences related to the crossing of the state border, then we must simply allow for covert operational and cognitive action. We know that there is a legal form of restrictions on the right to protection of privacy, freedom and the protection of confidentiality of communication and information autonomy. This is directly attributable to the Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3rd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. In order to respect this right, minimum standards are needed in the statutory regulation of operations and research activities, i.e. secretly obtaining information about individuals by public authorities. And it's this bill that assumes it. Special Services identify and define threats of legal interest, therefore it is necessary to regulate precisely the admissibility of operational control and the acquisition of personal data, because in such a case there is an entry into the area of privacy. From the point of view of the principle of legal definition, it is important, however, to clarify in the provisions of the law a catalogue of measures and methods by which public authorities may secretly collect information about individuals. And that's the issue that's being regulated by this law. The Act is to specify the maximum duration for the conduct of classified activities after which the continuation of such activities is inadmissible. This deadline is to be defined by the legislator in order to achieve a constitutionally legitimate objective. It must not be so that in the State of law information about someone is collected without a time limit. And this project also regulates this issue. The Act should lay down the procedure for the management of operational and exploratory activities, for the examination of their legality, for the collection and use of materials and for their destruction. And this bill defines it. The law must clearly indicate the extent to which the data obtained in the course of the operational and research activities are used, and in particular the use of them in the criminal process as evidence. And this bill regulates it. We are also aware that the court can order operational control when other measures have proved ineffective or useless, and that there must be judicial review of the process of secret information acquisition. And this draft law also provides for regulation of this issue. Thus, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, we are in favour of further proceding the project. We are of course aware of the fact that this project can be strongly discussed and meaningful amendments can be tabled in this respect, but we have one goal, the aim of which is to strengthen the security of the state and fight against crime, including organised crime, which has already been so strongly affected and the citizens of the Polish state, and the Polish budget, and the Polish nation. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I therefore request that the draft submitted be further examined. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u7	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Wójcik will now perform the Civic Platform on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill deals with complex matter, which is the manner and scope of restricting the right to privacy, one of the most fundamental civil rights. The Constitutional Tribunal dealt with the right to privacy in 2014 and expressed numerous expectations of the legislator as to how this right should be guaranteed. In order to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, the Senate of the previous term of office prepared an appropriate bill. This is the project that was being examined in the High House in the end of its previous term of office. The project was addressed to a far-reaching public consultation. Many environments have expressed their views on this project and expressed their doubts. Unfortunately, due to the end of the previous Sejm's term of office, we were unable to complete the work on this project in order to obtain the necessary social acceptance of the proposed changes during the election campaign. However, we have left to the next Parliament the consulted project, a good project that would certainly carry out the judgment of the Constitutional Court, a project which has also been accompanied by the opinions of many independent institutions, which should be the basis for further work in this area in the High House. Unfortunately, the Law and Justice, instead of taking advantage of the achievements of the previous term, prepared its own bill, which, perhaps, in some places coincides with the senate project of the previous term, but is resigning from many of the regulations required by the Constitutional Tribunal, among others. abandons very precise rules on the destruction of unnecessary or unlawful data, abandons parts of the good rules introduced in the Senate project for the supervision of data that have been obtained as a result of operational control, but, most importantly, enters the area of Internet data, which, in the absence of consultation and public acceptance for the introduction of such legislation, may cause similar social protests as ACTA's case. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I apply to reject this bill. We believe that the basis for further work should be a senate project from the previous term of office, a project that guarantees services the ability to ensure the safety of citizens, as well as a project that implements the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment more fully than this and better protects citizens' right to privacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u9	Thank you very much. The remaining time of the Platform will use... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Right now, right? Now there's no... [[Yes, yes, Minister. That's a good idea. The Minister wanted to speak, let him speak. She's a famous person.]] For the time being, the Member has... [[Voice from the room: No, wait...]] ... There's still time... [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Mr. Marshal...]] Minister, if you'll excuse me, we have only the authority of the Minister... [[That's what I'm gonna do.]] ... Zielinski to speak on this matter. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Jarosław Zieliński: There has been a change.]] Did it happen? We didn't get any clearance. [[Voice from the room: The letter must be delivered immediately...]] [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: I would like to submit a formal application.]] [[You can't...]] But the Minister can't file a formal application. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u10	Thank you. Minister, it is fortunate that you can't file formal applications at this point. [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik: Why can't I?]] Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! This draft, contrary to the judgment of the Court, does not contain any provisions to protect citizens from abuse by the services as regards telecommunications data. This is what the Senate of the previous term worked on. There is a lack of subsidiarity in the processing of telecommunications data, elementary protection of professional secrets. We absolutely cannot accept what you are proposing. We cannot agree to infect the Polish Internet with a trojan, a Trojan horse, which is supposed to be an art. 20c. You want extensive surveillance of Poles on the Internet. This will not be allowed by the Civic Platform. Art. 20c introduces a new concept of processing so-called. Internet data unknown to the Polish legal system. Service without the knowledge and consent of the court, like in Big Brother, will be able to obtain such data permanently, 24 hours a day. What data? Not only information about the start and end of the Internet connection - that would still be acceptable - but also information about the connection range. It's an amazing thing. There is also additional information in the provision that it will also be possible for the customer to obtain the data necessary for the provision of the service, e.g. If someone enters the collector's portal, the service will receive such data without the permission of the court. The platform won't agree to that. We will not agree to this project, which, under the pretence of executing only the judgment of the tribunal, serves the surveillance of Internet users, every entry to the Google search engine, every search phrase, every activity on social networks. I will remind you that it was for our government, and after your ground situation we introduced regulations to protect Poles from wiretapping, so that the judge, when deciding to allow operational control, had access to the case file. This regulation, Art. 20c, clearly violates the Constitution's provisions concerning, for example, the confidentiality of communication. If you push this power of state online, the Platform will certainly go to the Constitutional Court. We believe that the tribunal will be able to rule on this matter. We're not gonna agree to this kind of ping-pong to monitor online activity, [[♪ The bell ♪]] each index, every online query, all those data that are also transmitted by means of portals such as Facebook. That's why we're filing a motion to reject this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Józwiak will now speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws. This project amends the provisions of several laws concerning very different services regarding their access to telecommunications data and Internet data. Contrary to appearances, this project is not particularly new. In a significant part it is a continuation of the project of the Senators of the Civic Platform, which is still under review in the previous term of office. This project was intended to respond to some 100 pages of the attention of the Constitutional Tribunal to the earlier project. But what is worth mentioning? In fact, he did not follow all these recommendations to the Court. It would seem that a bad project should now be fundamentally amended on the basis of indications from the ruling of the Court, which clearly and unambiguously indicated the points in which the powers given to individual services are contrary to the Constitution, restrict our freedoms and our right to privacy. Unfortunately, the proposed law still contains a number of solutions criticised by the Court and does not resolve the doubts raised by the Court and, moreover, still does not take into account the comments of non-governmental organisations, because there has been no real substantive and reliable public consultation, and in some cases, even if it makes any changes or attempts to clarify what the Constitutional Tribunal has pointed out, it does so in the form of branding solutions for the irregularities indicated, rather than creating real solutions to protect citizens from abuse of services. And here there are many examples of such comments to this project. In the case of a plea not to provide for an independent control of the provision of telecommunications data, this so-called project is introduced. the subsequent review carried out by the competent court, but in an optional manner, once every 6 months, and at the same time this court will in principle deal with data more quantitatively and qualitatively than it would actually have access to all the data from the investigation. The project ignores the need to increase the protection of telecommunications data of individuals of public confidence, and in the event of a negative assessment of the functioning of the body concerned, it does not provide for an obligation to destroy the data collected illegally, nor does it provide for any penalties and consequences for those responsible for unwarranted access to telecommunications data. There is a complete lack of subsidiarity in this project, as many organisations point out, and which makes it possible to use telecommunications data not only in the necessary situations, but also when this is the case. It's just the most convenient way to operate for the services. The catalogue of situations where individual services can reach for telecommunications data is also extended. And here, for example. in the case of the police, this will not only be possible to prevent or detect crimes, but also to identify, prevent, combat, detect crimes or obtain and maintain evidence of crime. The project does not provide for information to be provided to the data subject after the operational activities have been completed and for the use of vague definitions of certain categories of data, e.g. Internet data that give the possibility of any interpretation to persons responsible or investigators. Moreover, it increases the right to collect these data, time law, up to 18 months. All of these selected elements point to a very high risk of over-visiting the collected data, which, in our opinion, will be the next step towards restricting our freedom and privacy. This time, this jump is already in the sphere of the Internet. This results in the gradual introduction of more and more surveillance powers and the extension of the list of services authorised for such surveillance. This is such a quiet totalitarianization of the state. The proposed PO-PiS project - because it could be called in a sense, built still in the times of the PO, and refined and extended by the Law and Justice - is contrary to our vision of the role of services and inalienable civil rights. We understand that it is basically a simple consequence of the way we have been going for several years by giving further bastions to our privacy and freedom by allowing our services to enter these spheres. It also often approves whether or not it entitles the activities that these services already carry out. But that doesn't mean this road is good. We fundamentally disagree with this direction. Our vision of the state does not assume that the more surveillance, the more control, the better, the safer. [[Applause]] On the contrary, our vision of the state is based on a civil state, a state of civil liberties where services can only have access to our personal data to the extent necessary, to the extent necessary to protect our freedoms. We are freedom fighters, which is why this project is unacceptable to us in this form. In order for us to discuss it, it must start by following the recommendations of the tribunal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and have a broad public consultation to guarantee services in the fight against criminals, but also protect honest citizens and their data and privacy. We will support the proposal to reject this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u13	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Posel Club, Mr Adam Szłapka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The constitutional duty of the State is to ensure the safety of citizens and no one questions that the security services must have the tools to do so. But service is not a political tool. Services are to uphold the security and democratic rule of law, and the foundation of the rule of law is independent control of services and confidence of citizens in the state. The citizen must be sure that he is in no danger from the state, the services and the officials. Constitution in Article. 47 says very clearly: everyone has the right to protect private life. In August 2014, the Constitutional Tribunal issued a ruling stating very precisely which rules on service activities are contrary to the Constitution, violate citizens' rights and allow for their unlawful surveillance. During this year and a half, the Platform has done nothing with this ruling, has not prepared a bill that executes this ruling, and what a group of senators has prepared is such an apparent act, evil, also contested e.g. by non-governmental organisations that do not execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. While reading this bill, the PiS did not leave a dry thread on it, and let us remind you what Mr Jarosław Zieliński said about this project sitting here: We are dealing with an extremely dangerous situation. It concerns interference, and often very deep, in the sphere of privacy and the mystery of communication. Such regulations must not be written in haste and on the knee, and this law makes it seem as if it were written in haste, on a slip, on a knee. And then, in his question to the applicant, Mr Zieliński said this: the Court should be an instance for the government which issued the ruling that had to be executed. [[We're doing it now.]] The court's ruling has to be executed, by the way. Today we receive a bill from PiS and it turns out that the Platform Act is the basis of the PiS project. That's 99%. The solutions proposed by the Senate of the previous term of office - said Minister Mariusz Kaminski yesterday to journalists, and this is another fundamental law on state security, the security of citizens, which is proposed by a group of Members, so again without consultation, again in a simplified legislative procedure. This is a law which does not execute the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal and is much further and much worse than this bad project prepared by the Civic Platform. This is a law that allows the control and surveillance of citizens, which contains rules that are not in accordance with the Constitution. It's a political police bill. He doesn't execute court decisions, like I said. There is no regulation requiring the destruction of data which is used by the ABW and SKW in a process. Why do you need this data? Is it the desire to create files for citizens again? It's a return to a very bleak time, Minister. Constitution in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 says very precisely: Public authorities cannot collect, collect and share other data, other information about citizens than necessary in a democratic state of law. And what the Platform Members were talking about - scandalous art. 20. You put in control of Internet data and any citizen who has a smartphone, tablet or computer will be able to be controlled, where he logs, where he moves, where he's having dinner, who he's meeting. Is this the rule of law? It's such an imprecise recipe that it allows you to keep a constant check. What is the definition of online data? Where are the limits of your proposed control? The control over the collection of billing and postal data proposed in this provision, this follow-up control, is totally illusory control. Art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 of this law allows for 18 months of inspection. Where'd you come up with that 18 months? What is the purpose of such a long period of time? 'Cause I don't think that's getting forensic evidence. Is this about the hooks? And then what? What about subsidiarity? What about the responsibility of officials and officers who were conducting illegal surveillance? Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the development of modern technologies, there are almost unlimited possibilities of interference in our private lives. The law must keep up with this, we must limit the possibility of entering into our lives. I agree with what you said a few weeks ago, that this is a bad bill, quickly prepared, which undermines confidence in the state. You're criticizing the Platform, and today you're doing the same thing, you're making a bill fast. Do you know why immune system diseases are so dangerous? Because the elements to protect the organism are getting out of control and destroying it. You are eliminating the immune system of the rule of law - the Constitutional Tribunal, and this law is giving society a very serious disease. You're destroying the foundation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] countries - citizens' trust. If we put this law together with the Law on the merger of the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, we give you a powerful tool that stands over the citizen, and the citizen has no way of defending himself against the state. Marshal, one more second. The judgment of the Tribunal shall enter into force on 7 February. We have more than a month, we can prepare a bill in accordance with the rulings of the tribunal. Let us use this time, let us listen to what the ombudsman who criticises this law says, let us listen to what the Supreme Bar Council says, let us listen to what the National Judicial Council says.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u15	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u16	On behalf of Modernity, I request that this bill be rejected at first reading, because it simply does not execute the judgment of the tribunal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski will speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u18	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! After the 2015 elections and the constitution of the 8th Sejm, the Polish People's Party became an opposition group. This does not mean that the Polish People's Party club will deny and block all initiatives: either government, or it is reported by the parliamentary majority. That's not gonna happen because it would lead to extreme irresponsibleness. However, please do not exempt us from the obligation of thinking and common sense to approach the proposed projects, especially in situations where they are crucial to society as a whole. That's the kind of matter we're dealing with today. The draft law tabled by the group of Members is not purely editorial or even legislative. On the contrary: in a far-fetched way, it changes the existing dispositions, gives them new sound and meaning, which will not be indifferent to the application of all police law. Since there was a need for changes in the scope of the matter indicated, it is logical for the government to take over the legislative initiative in this respect. It is the government that has the knowledge and access to all data, especially in such sensitive matters. According to the proposal, in the current parliamentary term, the Special Services will be able to eavesdrop on us for up to 18 months in the absence - and this is the most important - of independent control over services and relatively too easy access of services to telecommunications data. The project does not limit the ability of services to access telecommunications data in serious crime cases, which we agree with, but unfortunately the services will also be able to reach for them in trivial cases without the need to obtain the consent of the court. Nor will the services continue to have an obligation to inform citizens against whom they will not charge that they have been under surveillance, although the Constitutional Tribunal considered that such information should be given to every citizen. In total, the current draft, as well as the previous one, contains regulations that are incompatible with European Union law, among others. due to the too wide catalogue of offences justifying access to data, the lack of a mechanism for prior review of the court - e.g. in the form of a judge for pre-trial proceedings or an independent body, for the provision of data and for a non-precise and discretionary period for the processing of the data made available. In substance, the current draft, the parliamentary one, does not execute the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 30 July 2014, sygn. Act K 23/11, and completely disregards the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 8 April 2014 in Joined Cases C 293/12 and C 594/12. In fact, most of the solutions proposed in the parliamentary project coincide with the draft law amending the Police Act and some other laws drawn up in the previous term by the Senate. What is very important, this senate project was criticised by the then opposition, and today by the rulers. It is also acceptable to raise the fact that this law would change a whole series of so-called changes. Set up around-the-clock police. The lack of a calm, thorough and factual discussion and the absence of a hearing in this Chamber of the positions of the bodies of the affected parties makes it impossible for my club to agree to such a procedure. As far as such serious and crucial changes are concerned, Members should be familiar with both the opinions and the position of the Attorney General and the first President of the Supreme Court. It is these bodies that will be the most interested in the possible application of the High House's law in this area. On the other hand, I would like to stress that both the mode and method of proceding fully determine the club of the Polish People's Party to submit an application for rejection of the draft law from print No 154, which I hereby do. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u19	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of club appearances. 32 Members have signed up for the question. I'm closing the list of questions to be asked. [[Me too.]] You're still an MP, all right. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. [[Marshal, one and a half minutes.]] Mr Maciej Wąsik, Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to reassure you because there are many words of concern here, of good concern, because there are some things that need to be looked at very carefully. But I'd like to reassure you. In your statements there was concern for the so-called. Internet data. Mr Szłapka asked where the definition of this data is. The definition of this data is in the Act on the provision of services by electronic means: Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. This bill tells us what Internet data the operator collects. But there's also art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The service provider shall provide information on the data referred to in paragraph 6. One, five, to the authorities of the State for the purposes of their proceedings. This is a law that says that these data have been available to state authorities since 2002. The bill we're investigating doesn't introduce any new solutions here. As the Court also pointed out, the powers of the services are in some way scattered in our legal system. This bill only cleans up these things. The Court has requested the legislator to gather information on what constitutes operational control in one place and on what other data is collected by the services without the consent of the court. We just put this data in the bill. I remind you, this law has been in operation for 13 years, including eight years of the Civil Platform's rule. It was changed in 2013 and there was no such concern on the part of the Civic Platform in this regard. I would definitely like to emphasise one thing. We only apply this law because it is ordered by the Constitutional Court. There were 18 months to make that change. Unfortunately, no government project of the PO-PSL government appeared in the Seym. The senate project was not carried out to the end. Maybe it's okay. In our view, our project carries out the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in a more complete manner. I'll just remind you of one element. The Constitutional Tribunal has ordered the introduction of a maximum duration of operational control. The Platform project does not provide for maximum time. This project predicts this time. You can discuss whether it should be 15, 18 or 20 months. I think this discussion in the committees will be held. But this project carries out a sentence in this regard. Previous project, the Senate project didn't do it. Such examples could certainly be multiplied. I would like to stress with all responsibility: there is no intention of the government to somehow increase the powers of the services to collect any sensitive data. This project is even beneficial in this respect. I would remind you that this project provides for the destruction of data that will not be used in criminal proceedings. If we don't write online data here, then the services won't have to destroy them. If we write it down, they're gonna have to destroy those data that aren't useful in criminal proceedings. So that these changes are beneficial from the point of view of citizens' privacy, their right to maintain some anonymity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. The first question is asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think at first we have to figure out one thing, what kind of project we're working on. And we are working, High Izbo, on the parliamentary bill, the PiS project, print number 154, which primarily interferes with the freedoms guaranteed by the constitution. Now the questions, because as usual, we have little time. Mr. Marshal, one minute isn't enough to speak, to ask questions. Why do you extend the possibility of surveillance of citizens, listening to Poles, checking our activity in the electronic world, on the Internet, on social networks, checking e-mails and e-mails? Why does the project not limit the ability of services to access telecommunications data only in the event of serious crime? The services will also be able to access data in trivial matters, without the need to obtain permission from the court, and Poles will not need to be informed about surveillance. Why is there no independent control over the services? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why would you want to increase police and special services' rights to eavesdrop on phone calls, surveillance of the Internet, and recording citizens in non-public places? Why can any citizen be subject to such control for a year and a half?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u23	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u24	Why does the bill raise concerns about the Ombudsman? Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u26	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The proposed project concerns the use of telecommunication data on citizens without the consent of the court. Your project only involves introducing a follow-up check by the court, which is after the fact, and once every 6 months. Isn't it possible that follow-up checks will only be optional and incidental? What is the public's guarantee that courts will undertake real monitoring activities of law enforcement authorities? And last question: Why does the project not provide for the destruction of data collected illegally in the case of a negative assessment of the activity of the authorised authority? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u28	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! Under cover of the fight against evil and crime, you want to peek at citizens, read their messages, look at Facebook chats or even correspondence. You also want to have access to the data and know what the average Kowalski is watching on the Internet without any restrictions. It is terrifying in this matter to be free to peek at content, to look at what citizens see on the Internet without the consent of the court. That is why I would like to ask you two questions about this law. First question: Why do you not want the citizen to be informed after the wiretap that such an action was carried out against him? The second question is how you want to guarantee the privacy and protection of sensitive data on the Internet, [[♪ The bell ♪]] health-related data, for example. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a perverse question, because in such an important matter to speak to an empty room, it is a little strange, in fact, to 15 PIS Members who are in the Chamber. I have counted 15 members of the PiS in such an important debate. Representatives, ladies and gentlemen, as many as 11 institutions can find out where our phone was logged in, when and who we were calling. In 2014 there were more than 2177 thousand. queries to operators about the details of their clients from the services, i.e. the ABW, the Police, Border Guard, the CBA, the Military Police, the Military Counterintelligence Service, and the courts and prosecutors' office. In 2014 alone, 24% of them arrived compared to 2013. What happened? The experts are beating on the alarm. Getting information about phone calls has totally gotten out of hand. The destruction of data is not regulated. The services may store operational data. It's a simple way to create files. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In such sensitive cases, can we not calmly proceed, for example, until 7 February, when there will be a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which 15 months ago issued a precise judgment ordering an improvement of the previous law?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u31	Thank you very much, sir. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u32	Poland is in the brutish forefront when it comes to surveillance of citizens. It's time for you to come to your senses. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: In what times?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amendment of this law raises widespread social controversy. Once again, we are dealing with a parliamentary project, which is a short legislative path, which deprives us of possibilities, among others. expressing opinions and consultation. The project clarifies what is an operational control for which the court's consent is required. It's eavesdropping on phone calls, checking correspondence, including electronics on the Internet, recording people in public places, and not just surveillance. The Court of Justice of the European Union already on the occasion of the so-called. Data retention stated that a citizen should be able to obtain information that he was controlled by the services. This right is not introduced by the proposed proposal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is: Will this request be implemented in any way? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u35	Thank you very much. Now Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Analyzing the provisions of the proposed law, it can be concluded that under the coat of execution of the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal, the dream of Jarosław Kaczyński not present today about the surveillance of millions of Poles and Poles is being realized. [[Don't talk nonsense.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Don't disturb me, sir. [[Don't talk nonsense.]] Explain to me what's causing the catalogue of operations to expand. [[Voice from the room: narrowing it down.]] That's not in the ruling. Moreover, the so-called acquisition is excluded from the current control. telecommunications data. And what do they belong to? According to the Electronic Service Act, we include PESEL numbers, check-in addresses, Internet mailbox addresses. This is not mentioned in the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal either. Mr President, please answer, [[♪ The bell ♪]] why millions of Poles are misleading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u37	Thank you very much. Ms Aldona Młyńczak, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Have you read the Panoptykon Foundation's position on the proposed amendment? It states that the proposal for control contained in the proposal is only of a facade nature as it is optional. The hearing court will only have access to certain materials and not to all materials of proceedings. Nor will the Court assess whether reaching for data was necessary and proportionate. I therefore ask how such sampling and follow-up checks are to ensure the proper functioning of the justice system, which should be based on respect for the rights of an individual whose right to privacy and the protection of personal data may be infringed. Why is it possible to download phone records, location data, e-mail data and text messages, and not to enter a directory of crimes specifying when such data can be downloaded? The EU Directive expressly states that such data may only be collected for the purpose of prosecuting serious crimes and that in this law they may concern any person. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are citizens denied the right to information about their surveillance when the Court of Justice of the European Union says that citizens have such a right? Don't mislead people that it's for their own good, because no one's gonna believe it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u39	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the year 1984, George Orwell in the Ministry of Love, there is such a dialogue: does the Great Brother exist? - Of course it does. The Party exists, and the Big Brother is the Party's embodiment. - Does it exist the same way I do? - You don't exist. Ladies and gentlemen! Under the guise of the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, Law and Justice introduces full surveillance of the citizen. Emails, photos, videos, messages from comms, files stored in the cloud, files uploaded inside sites, login times, profile details on social networks, 12 million Facebook users, 14 million YouTube users. This one's for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Law and Justice Act. Does this project implement the ruling of the tribunal, or does it introduce new elements that could threaten our freedom? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u41	Thank you very much. Now he has a voice, the question is asked by Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u42	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The PiS project refers to a situation where the services listen to conversations between lawyers, legal counsels, doctors, journalists and clergy, professional groups which have legally guaranteed professional secrecy. On the assumption that such conversations and films will be passed on to the prosecutor who is required to inform the court immediately to decide whether or not these materials can be used in an ongoing investigation. In turn the court will be able to order that eavesdropping conversations of a lawyer with their client be destroyed. In the current state of law, the police and services did not have to transmit such recordings to prosecutors. In this way, the number of people and institutions who learn about professional secrecy is increasing by the prosecutor's office. The proposed provisions order the destruction of such materials in criminal proceedings, but do not order them to be destroyed in cases where there is no investigation but are conducted only by the so-called services. operational activities, i.e. materials from the conversations of lawyers with their clients or doctors with their patients, will be able to be collected without restrictions [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the police and the services themselves, which significantly undermines the legally guaranteed institution of professional secrecy. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to this good change and the law and justice of the state in their prayers...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u43	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u44	...will even be afraid to go to confession. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u45	Thank you. Now Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, But most of all, dear PiS! You're scaring the opposition, you're scaring the journalists, and today is the time to scare the citizens. Gentlemen of Ministers! You've sat so far away, you can barely see. I just wanted to know if it was embarrassing. Let me remind you that President Duda has already pardoned you, but I will also remind you of what he has pardoned you for. I wanted to ask you if it is true that Minister Wąsik has already earned the nicknames "Gum Ear." I wanted to ask if it was true that he was eavesdropping over $6,000. times. I wanted to ask you if it's true that you installed so-called in your office. A listening station to listen in real time... [[Oh, good.]] ...help you keep up with the eavesdropping. Please correct me, but I'm not sure if it's legal. I wanted to ask you, [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether this law is intended to legalize this type of action and whether it is intended to legalize...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u47	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u48	...also your nicknames "Gum Ear." And I wanted to ask you one more question, Minister Kaminski...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u49	Thank you, Member. Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u50	...is it true that he was convicted of violation of criminal law, the CBA Act...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u51	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u52	...and the constitution, and today he's gonna be responsible for the wiretap. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u53	Ms Marta Golbik, the Modern Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask about technical issues, technical issues related to eavesdropping on the Internet, because the way you identify a person on the Internet is not a name. How will data be collected about us, about people who are being monitored on the Internet? The identifier can be ID, cookie, ID of the device on which we write, we read, e-mail address. What if we give our device to the baby, what if we give the baby an iPad? What if, at work on the same computer where a person is being eavesdropped, five people use it? Then all people are checked, and our child is under surveillance on our iPad. And that's against the art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u55	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u56	Mr. Marshal! Cookies are squeaky, really squeaky compared to what you're proposing. But I have a question for Minister Wąsik, and it's very precise. You made a mistake because until now the police had the right to look into the telecommunications data, but only about the fact of the connection, that is, establishing a relationship and ending it. You are proposing something else, which means you are introducing a scope without judicial review, an insight into the scope of the review of this web content. Minister! Answer one simple question: What is this scope and is the activity of Poles on social networks such as Facebook? Are there also pages visited, including completed forms, including search passwords? We do remember that in your office, as Agnieszka Pomaska's colleague reminded, you installed the whole apparatus. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to view the wiretap. And don't be surprised that we're a little afraid of that, Minister. Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u57	Thank you. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u58	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Ministers, you have a problem, because it's gonna be hard to track the record after the last coalition, even more illegal. You have a challenge. I hope you will not accept this challenge. In Poland we have a problem with special services on the basis of excess and lack of quality in all of this, and besides this coordination. My question: Isn't it worth leaning down at this stage and answering the question of what is really a special service, and is there a need to create these beings above being, which really at certain moments begin to interfere and even compete within their activities? Suddenly it turns out that the biggest opponent is not special foreign service, but, I don't know, ABW, CBA or, for example, AW. In short, isn't it worth the effort to get things straightened out in this direction? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u59	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Club15. There's no envoy. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform Club. Isn't there an MP? Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform Club. There's a lot of trouble for Members. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform. [[They signed up at night, Marshal, that's why.]] Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, Civic Platform Club. Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, Civic Platform Club. We will soon exhaust the list of members of the vote. Oh, you're...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, it is a complete aberration that the law broadening the powers of special services in this country is assessed by an archaeologist who is known for eavesdropping on God knows who 6200 times or more from his own office. Absolutely unacceptable. Both ministers, tell me what hooks you have gathered as the then Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Andrzej Duda, that he pardoned you five minutes after he was sworn in as president. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Second question. How dare you not inform the people on whom you will not have any hooks, following your logic of reasoning that you will not give them the right to be informed of the surveillance carried out against them? On what grounds? What right? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u61	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The analysis of the project raises great concern that a black scenario, i.e. full surveillance of citizens, will be carried out. The lack of an effective mechanism for investigating the legality of the application of the catalogue of operational control measures by an external and independent entity from the executive authorities, as well as the possibility of applying controls to a broad catalogue of intentional offences prosecuted by public prosecutions, may therefore also apply to, say, trivial acts. Therefore, I have a question: Why does the project not provide for a precise indication of the type of offences that may justify the use of these activities? And one more thing. If the citizen is not informed of the inspection ordered against him in accordance with the project, he will not be able to file a complaint concerning the activities carried out against him. Isn't this too far-reaching interference in the rights and freedoms of man and citizen? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u63	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u64	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am in possession of an expert opinion, from which it is clear that the parliamentary bill is very similar to the Senate project from the previous term. And you admitted that yesterday's minister. However, both of these projects do not comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. As Members of the opposition, you have strongly criticised these solutions. What, then, is it that you bring the criticisms of the Senate bill to the Sejm today and say that these are excellent solutions? [[Applause]] And please don't tell me that there is little time to introduce a law, because I deeply believe that you were a substantive opposition, and in November, instead of dealing with the Constitutional Tribunal, we had to deal with laws that served Poland and Poles well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u65	Thank you very much. Ms Monica Rosa, Moderna, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to remind Mr Civic Platform that you had over a year to write a good, constitutional law. You didn't, so today you can yell at Platfor... at Law and Justice... [[Voice from the room: Ojojoj.]] [[A coalitioner, a coalitioner. Coalition.]] ...but you just didn't do your duty. Now, here's the question. The Constitution makes it clear that everyone has the right to protect their private lives. Hence my questions: Why did you not include the principle of subsidiarity in the provisions of the Act, i.e. the final use of interference in the privacy of citizens only after using other operational means? And the second question is: Why did you not include in the Act a record of the obligation to inform the innocent person against whom the operation was taking place that such activities were carried out? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why do you, under the guise of the execution of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment, open up the right to obtain from the police and services the right to obtain from Internet operators without the permission of the court of data about what we do specifically on the Internet? After all, in many countries with established democratic standards, the court's consent is needed. In your project, you guarantee uncontrolled and unlimited access to information collected by the operator about the initiation, termination and scope of each use of the service provided by electronic means. Is that what it is to adapt to the Constitutional Court's judgment that you are so deeply interfering with the privacy of citizens? Is it not the kind of dichotomy that accompanies PiS from the beginning of this term of office - on the one hand you destroy the Constitutional Tribunal, you ignore it, but under the cloak of the need to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal you show overzealousness from the Polish People's Republic, wanting to observe [[♪ The bell ♪]] Citizens? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u69	Thank you very much. Member Robert Winnicki of the Kukiz club15 has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project, Minister, is a Civic Platform project, only more. Everything you've done is more - collecting data for 18 months, accessing data on the Internet, arbitrary decisions on the destruction of the data collected, the possibility of using it for different purposes, no penalties for unjustified surveillance, plus a court lockdown. In fact, the procedure provided for in this law will lead to the courts not being able to control surveillance, listening to citizens at all. It's a wiretapping bill, it's a citizens' surveillance bill. You're going the wrong way. As the classic used to say, don't go that way. Do not go on the road, do not follow the standards set by the Civic Platform, making the Polish country eavesdropping in the last term. I don't understand why you need this stench, why you're dragging this stench behind you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] use of political services. And it's too lame to say that there's a threat to terrorism. Eliminating the threat...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u71	Thank you very much, sir. ...terrorism isn't more eavesdropping on citizens, it's not accepting illegal immigrants. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law does not provide for and does not take into account the financial consequences, inter alia. for courts which will, after all, remain subject to additional obligations. Or are you not providing for any additional resources for this purpose? In fact, the lack of possibility to carry out checks because of a prosaic lack of staff makes judicial review completely illusory. Is that really what this is about? That there shouldn't be an entity to control the surveillance operation of the services? Do you have any calculations to determine what impact the law will have on public finances at this point in time? We already know why the Law and Justice and the President were in such a hurry to paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. You will now be able to introduce a non-constitutional law to keep citizens under surveillance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u73	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have been a member of the Committee on Pressures for a few months, and I would therefore like to thank you very much for the questions asked by Agnieszka Pomaska and by Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz. These are very important, important questions. We then received such answers during the committee meeting to a certain extent, so I think that these questions should also be answered today. This is very important. Even I dare say that as long as such questions fall from this podium, you can still have an illusion that there is a substitute for free, democratic Poland. On the other hand, with regard to questions related to the bill, with regard to the proposed law. What does the scope of each use of services mean? What exactly are we talking about? In what specific cases will it be possible to collect this data without the consent of the court? And aren't you afraid that over-visiting the Internet will lead to action in accordance with the principle: find a man, and we'll match the paragraph to him? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u75	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Mr Jarosław Zieliński, the Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Anything can be said or, excuse me, chatter, but to bring some of your fellow Members to earth - three questions. You could ask more of them. First: Is it true that the current regulations on the application of operational control do not set the maximum time limit for its application and that the parliamentary draft law limits this period to a maximum of 18 months? Second question: Is it true that this project establishes judicial control over the process of making telecommunications data available to services that are currently not available? Third question: Is it true that the bill introduces an additional tool to control the process of obtaining data by imposing an obligation on the services to keep a register of requests for the acquisition of telecommunications, postal and online data, which is not present today, and the court will be able to control it? If the answers to these questions are yes, then, ladies and gentlemen, why this hysterical cry? This is a question addressed to the representative of the Members of the applicants. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u78	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, That's how I listen to this debate. Everyone, not just from my group, has their thoughts, different comments. And let me tell you one thing: you agree with the fundamental elements of our freedom... in all of us, including yourself. This bill, if passed and is highly likely to pass, so far so, will apply and apply only to the state. I do not want to believe what I hear, that here the state in this Chamber, 240 Members, is convinced 100% that the stripping or sharing of information to which the security services, the police and other individuals will have access... that you believe that you are surrendering to it. This is done, in my opinion, by a narrow group of people whose state you obey in a ruthless manner. In no country, in no nation's collectiveity [[♪ The bell ♪]] There are no such derogations and no such tortures as you propose to our society. This must affect your...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u79	Thank you very much, sir. ...popularity, your obedience, your credibility in our society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! This is a very important and at the same time a very complicated bill. He's going deep into civil liberties. The provisions of the bill are of great concern. That's not surprising. The project therefore requires extensive public consultation, advice from competent authorities and non-governmental organisations. I have a question for the authors of the project: Does this project have the opinion of the Data Protection Officer general, who is specifically appointed to care about data security? If there is such an opinion, what does it contain, and where can it be read? Unfortunately, there is no information about this, but it is a pity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u81	Thank you, thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two more specific questions for applicants. The first question concerns the principle of subsidiarity. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal made it very clear that it should be introduced into legislation. Why isn't she in? The second question concerns the provision which was introduced in the draft Civil Platform Act, which is the basis of this project, and concerns the fact that the operational control carried out against Members, Senators and President of the Republic requires the approval of the first President of the Supreme Court. Why did you give up this record, and what is the purpose of giving up this record? Because it seems that you often talk about the democratic package and it could be very good in the so-called. democratic package and protection of the opposition against possible surveillance or control. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Abramowicz, Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Will they receive any additional powers after the adoption of this draft service except those they have today? In particular, will such powers be able to be used in obtaining data from the Internet? Today, there are charges here that we want to introduce a police state, that we want to give the services additional powers. As far as I know, this project does not provide for any other additional powers to act. I want to make sure that this discussion and those voices that have been voiced today by the opposition, the Platforms and also by the Kukiz movement are justified, that they are not merely a political struggle, which in this Chamber This is not about good and improving the service, it is about discrediting the government and the minister. I'm asking for a specific answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u85	Thank you very much. Now you have the floor of Anna Nemś, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the project you are talking about here as a Civic Platform project is a senate project. For many years, the Senate has been carrying out judgments and initiatives in this respect in the framework of the division of competences between the Chambers of Parliament. So once again, it's not the Civic Platform project, it's the Senate initiative, and it's the most important thing on this issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u87	Thank you very much. In this way, we have exhausted the list of persons enrolled in the questions. Now, please, you have the floor of the Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Maciej Wąsik:
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will try, in a few words, to address the questions that you have raised in your questions. I would like to emphasise once again: the project does not provide for any additional powers for operational control services to collect data. I would like to remind all of you that the Electronic Service Act has been in place for 13 years since 2002. The draft refers to the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One-five of this law, i.e. the rules that tell what data operators collect. And let me remind you that the mouth has been functioning for 13 years. 6, which says: the provider shall provide information on the data referred to in paragraph. One, five, to the authorities of the State for the purposes of their proceedings. Thanks to the fact that we write down, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's judgment, all their competences in the service laws, so that they are not scattered, the access of the services to these data is in principle less, because it consists of specific crimes, which are appropriate to the services. I would like to stress one more thing that this project provides for the destruction of data that is collected by the services and which will not be used in criminal proceedings. These data, including those which will be obtained without the consent of the court, which are still obtained without the consent of the court, which for 8 years of the PO-PSL governments were obtained without the consent of the court and were not destroyed, are now lying. The project orders the destruction of all these phone records, location arrangements that are not used in criminal proceedings. So it's written down in the law of competence of the department that the services will be obliged to use data that are not used for criminal proceedings to destroy. And that's what I'd like to stress with all my might. And once again, I would like to stress: this law operates for 13 years, in 2013, you have amended this law, you have also amended the law on services several times, Mr Święcicki. You had a chance to do a lot, you didn't want to do it. You were obliged to carry out work on the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Civic Platform government didn't respect this sentence, left us this case that we had to deal with as a matter of urgency... [[There's still time.]] ...that's why it's a parliamentary project, not a government project. If we do not adopt this law, on 7 February the services will lose the right to use operational control and data collection. This law is necessary and I would like to stress once again that this law implements the judgment, limits the powers of the services which the Constitutional Tribunal has declared to be non-constitutional. I would also like to refer here to some of the things that fell from Mr Snapshot. Indeed, we have seen this provision concerning the role of the Supreme Court in the operational audit material concerning Members, Senators and President. Indeed, such a provision was, but in my opinion, as I recall, he spoke about the consent to the use in criminal proceedings of materials collected during operational control against Members and Senators. We consciously decided to remove this provision because we believe that all citizens are equal to the law. And the same law has a grey citizen, as does a Member or a Senator, and should also be treated by the law. And finally, I will say this: I will not refer to the arguments ad personam, except one. In addition to what Mr Cimoszewicz said about collecting hooks. [[Nice!]] With such a huge request to Mr Cimoszewicz... [[I wonder what kind of childhood he had.]] ...please don't measure them all with your measure. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. The floor on behalf of the applicants - the representative of the applicants, Mr Marek Opioła.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would very much like to thank you for this discussion and for all these questions. The Minister answered most of the questions, but I would like to address the most important points. First of all, it is a pity that those who have been in the debate today have not listened to my speech, which was precisely presenting the entire draft law. In fact, it's very complicated matter. I understand that some people don't understand and use very big thought shortcuts... [[I think it's you.]] ...talking about surveillance. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Do not insult the Members.]] We are just talking about the fact that, in our opinion, if we do not implement these regulations by 7 February, in fact Poles will cease to be safe. This project is about what the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party have not done for 17 months, i.e. they have not carried out the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal to such an important extent as the operation of police and special services in the context of serious, economic, fight against terrorism and not only. You were just afraid to do it. We had to do it in fast mode. [[You weren't afraid...]] Today we have the first procession, but nothing unusual happens, there is a normal mode, in the Seym there will be committee meetings, there will be a second reading. Therefore, with regard to all questions concerning opinions, financial implications, the position of the government, I understand, this will be presented in due time. The second most important issue - in this project we are really limiting the special forces and the police by limiting operational control to 18 months. Here it is clear that today operational control in Poland can last forever with the permission of the court, if there are such conditions of course. We limit this time to 18 months. Another important thing - we enter a closed directory. What we have said here today: in the current legislation that the Constitutional Tribunal has challenged, all these issues relating to the capabilities of special services, Internet interference, telecommunications data and not only were open issues. It is in this project that there is a narrowing to this directory. Finally, I would like to remind the Platform which is screaming so much today, and also the Polish People's Party, that it is about your times that today's media reports say that the Police Department of Internal Affairs during the last time the Chief of Police was being overheard illegally. 80 people, they were journalists and ordinary citizens, and more than that. Therefore, I really suggest you start talking to the point, not total bullshit about such an important project, which is the safety of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u91	Thank you very much, sir. The Member shall be corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, You should have listened to me. Well, I asked you, too, not to say that there was no time. Instead of dealing with how to remove Sosnowski from the committee in November, we had to work on a law that serves Poland and Poles well. [[The voice from the room: Good is good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u93	We listened to the answers to the questions. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. [[You'll get your hair done.]] I'm declaring half an hour off. Ladies and gentlemen, it has become clear that the committee report is ready to be presented. In this situation, I'm announcing a 15-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 49 hours 12 min 29]] I'm reopening the session. The competent committees have submitted a report on the draft parliamentary law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Culture and Communications on the draft law amending the Act on Radio and Television (prints No 158 and 161). I ask Mrs Elżbieta Raven to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a report to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television from print No 158. With regard to the legislative and targeted need to implement this project, I will remind you that this project is the consequence of a diagnosis of the state of public media, which is assessed negatively for many reasons: the way in which public missions are carried out, journalistic standards of objectivity and reliability, the rationality of structures and management, financing. Public radiophony and television, instead of promoting the formation of genuine public opinion by allowing and confronting different views and arguments on equal terms, promotes a specific media opinion and respects political correctness. The choice of subjects in the public debate is based on a specific hierarchy of importance and values, in which third-rate disputes obscure what determines the existence of millions of Poles and our country. Ideological and customary fashions not accepted by the majority of society are promoted. Polish public media journalists, instead of creating a media shield of the Polish state rhyme, often sympathize directly with unfavorable Polish opinions. They set themselves up as a political player and do not identify with the Polish state rhyme. [[This was supposed to be the committee's report.]] They ignore their mission to the community and national culture. That's why for the sake of our community... [[There's no need to justify it.]] ...national this needs to be changed as soon as possible. [[Is that a report?]] According to the justification of the submitted proposal, the Act constitutes the first stage of the reform of Polish public media aimed at establishing a system of national media. Its pillars will be non-commercial companies, which will provide stable sources of funding. The creation of a new system of organisation and funding of national media takes time... [[But we'd like to know what was going on in the committee.]] ...and will be the next stage of the reform. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sejm referred the draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Energy and the Treasury for consideration. The committees, after considering the above draft law at its meeting today, ask the Sejm to approve the draft attached to the report. The committees shall also submit 9 minority applications submitted by Members of the Civic and Modern Platform at the request of the applicants. [[Not on request, on request.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u95	Thank you very much, Member. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the club... [[On demand...]] ...you will be the first to speak with Marek Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to present the position of the club in relation to the revision of the Radio and Television Act. I'm sorry, I ran from the convention meeting, I'm a little... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Very funny.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u97	Health must be taken care of, sir, really. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u98	Ladies and gentlemen! Law and Justice have submitted a project to normalise, civilise the situation that exists in public media. I'm sorry, but it's the result of the race. [[Voice from the room: Maybe slower...]] It's all about... [[Voice from the room: Shame...]] But really...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u99	I'm asking you to calm down. [[Voice from the room: Sit down.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u100	The Convention meeting just ended... [[We like it. So what?]] ...and I just had to run, so please forgive me. [[We like it, sir.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, Law and Justice propose that, as in other companies of the Treasury, and public media are companies of the Treasury, for what is happening on boards, on supervisory boards, which is ownership supervision, the Minister of Treasury is responsible. Everywhere so, it is a standard which is broken in this case, and an example here may be the Energy Regulatory Office, which does not appoint supervisory boards in energy companies or boards, supervises tariffs, distributes various kinds of privileges, such as the National Radio and Television Council. Therefore, we want this situation to be corrected. In the course of our work, however, we have tabled one amendment which removes a certain defect that was mentioned at the committee meeting. The point is that board members should be appointed from among those competent in the field of radiophony and television and not be convicted of intentional crime. On the other hand, we propose to remove the requirement to have Polish citizenship because it would raise legal doubts because of European law, where free movement of workers is a principle that we have adopted with accession to the European Union. Hence we are removing this, you can say, imperfection of this law. We also propose another amendment to this law after the debate in which the opposition raised doubts, but also the Legislative Bureau reported them as to the entry into force of this law. We propose that it enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement, so that the principle of vacathio legis is maintained. Well, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in a heated debate - I believe there will also be hot questions and club appearances today - many accusations have been raised about this change that this is another coup of Law and Justice... [[No, not at all.]] ...that politicisation, and various such allegations, but, ladies and gentlemen, of course this change is not intended to eliminate all irregularities that were in the Polish public media, but it is intended to prepare just this good change, which is to make it national media, informing, reliable, honest, one that will, of course, inform about what is happening in the country, pointing out mistakes to everyone, ruling also... [[Touchdown, applause]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] ...because that's not the point. [[Quiet!]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, what we heard here today and yesterday about what is on TV, because mostly it was in this debate about television - I do not know why public radio was omitted - all that was happening under the rule of the Civic Platform, all these pathologies just want to be removed, so that the Polish media would serve the Polish society, giving reliable information about what is going on in the country and not that they were the tube of the ruling party, as it was... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Aren't they gonna be here now? Well, congratulations.]] ...in your reign. [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Ladies and gentlemen, public television was the headquarters of the lie that you are defending in a simultaneous manner today, it was the habitat of the resort children, it was the habitat of political nominates, often saying that they are journalists, and really fulfilling the mission of promoting Platform and PSL. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the best proof of that is that it was exposed, also by independent...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u101	You're out of time, sir. Go ahead and finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u102	...journalists you kicked out of work that the scripts for the news on public television were written in the law firm of the Prime Minister of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u103	Mr Pierce, you're very welcome to leave. Member Marek Suski: Thank you very much. [[Applause]] High Izbo! Please support this project that fixes this sick... Deputy Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Thank you very much, sir. Member Marek Suski: ...the situation. Thank you very much. Ms Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club, will speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I must admit that last night and today, I think, will go into the history of parliamentarians, because, as you know, everyone knows each other, the media is interested, which means there will certainly be an echo of this debate. Well, I would like to say that something that failed Robert Kwiatkowski and Włodzimierz Czarasty succeeded in the current group holding power. How did they do it, and actually in one 24-hour period? But they did. [[Applause]] [[The Lord is watching.]] [[Voice from the hall: Lord God do not mix.]] Unfortunately, I cannot agree with the rapporteur, who said very little about what was going on at the committee meeting. She read her speech yesterday on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, but never mind. We leave freedom of speech to everyone. [[Of course.]] ...so I can't agree. I certainly cannot agree with Mr Suski. For reasons I don't know, Mr. Suski is convinced that public television was the headquarters of a lie, as he called it. It's a very beautiful comparison. [[It's real.]] [[Hurry up, I think he's lying.]] I would like to say, Mr President, that the headquarters of the lie was a period when public television was, and that was years after your equally expressly implemented law in 2005, when, as it was shown, three successive Presidents of Law and Justice had. And then there really was. Maybe she wasn't doing so well on this television, and she wasn't doing so well financially either. So that there were a lot, a lot of problems and a lot of trouble. As for the lists of journalists being thrown out and the treatment of journalists both on public television and on public radio, although I do not collect files by Mr Suski's custom, I have this list... [[Yeah, it is.]] [[Yeah, it is.]] ... Because I have a pretty good and stable relationship with the journalistic community, and all those who came to the committee at the time... [[It's out.]] ...who pointed out how they were there... [[It came out of the bag.]] It came out of the bag, sir, on October 25th, it's true. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] [[Finally.]] And those who came to the committee and talked about how they were treated, they are. I think it's gonna happen again right now. What I'm trying to say is maybe at night it didn't sound very clear. I want to say what this law and justice project does to public media. Well, it eliminates such a way of selecting the authorities of media companies, which was quite good, although there is never absolute tightness, I agree, but rather a good dam separating media from the world of politics and party world. It was in the current law, which has many shortcomings. This mechanism of appointing authorities was a mechanism that really deserved to be maintained and noted. This is the country you're taking out. And what do we have in return? In return, we have a decision of the Treasury Minister who appoints and dismisses members of both supervisory boards and boards. In addition, we do not know for what time, we do not know when he could call them off, for what reasons, nor do we know what criteria you are called for. The fact that someone has some competence in the field of radio and television is that every audience and listener has such competence because they sit and watch or listen, so they think they have competence. There is nothing about their possible membership in the party, their relationships, their conflict of interests, their education, their knowledge - nothing. The treasure minister, who apparently has some omnipotent knowledge, simply chooses: and this could be a colleague, and this could be a brother-in-law, and this could be a friend. But I think that one thing can be, must be, must be connected with the Law and Justice, because as Mr Sasin said yesterday, protesting against [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our motion to reject the law at first reading can't be... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...so that the modern leader took at least 10 times as much time on this television as the president.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u105	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u106	It can't be like this: the modern leader doesn't let in, the platform doesn't let in...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u107	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u108	...oppositions do not let in. And Mr. President, I wish him all the best... [[Really?]] ...let him be on this TV from morning to night. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Long live!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u109	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Liroy-Marc from the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The applicants put us in a very difficult position. As a citizen's group, we believe that democracy needs strong and qualitative public media. The classic pattern is e.g. British BBC. All you're offering us today is prosthesis. The exchange of media authorities is certainly not an expected good change, on the other hand, current bias, lack of objectivity and low quality programmes are unacceptable. [[Voice from the room: Prove it.]] In the public media there is a caste of magnates earning huge money, while at the same time people actually creating these media are moving on to garbage contracts. It's time to stop. It can't go on like this. Therefore, Kukiz15 will abstain in the vote on this law, giving PiS a kind of credit to trust. It's actually a yellow light waiting for a system proposal to change. We need a new subscription bill. The need for a new system-based public radio and television. We expect a public, open debate on the media system. We look forward to a wide-ranging consultation taking into account not only political forces but also the professional environments, civil society organisations, artists and creators. You have a yellow light, and we're looking at your hands. On behalf of the Kukiz club, 15 on the hands of your marshal, I make an amendment which will ensure that the solution adopted is actually temporary. Finally, I wanted to recall the words of Tim Robbins, who once said: "Whether you are looking from the right or from the left, if you are watching TV, you will accumulate hatred. Abstract hatred. And that is what some power centers are after, and many want us to be divided. Remember that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's what I'm saying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u111	Thank you. [[About the formality, Your Marshal.]] Please, on the matter of formal Mr Rutnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u112	Thank you very much, Marshal. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I'd like us to call a break. I'm gonna need a break. Marshal, we're debating a very important issue, we're talking about public media, and what do we see in government benches? There's no one. There's nobody here again. [[Applause]] We're talking about a good change, we're talking about a media situation. Where is Prime Minister Gliński, where is Minister Sellin? [[Kurski.]] There are questions that need answers. There's no one on the government bench, ladies and gentlemen. This is the democratic package? This is the good change in law and justice? [[It's a parliamentary project.]] I request a recess, Your Marshal, and an invitation from the government of law and justice. [[The project is parliamentary.]] [[So what? And who will carry it out? Government!]] This is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u113	Thank you, sir. Unfortunately, I don't have the authority to call a break and interrupt... [[So what? We want the government.]] [[To intervene.]] [[What does that have to do with anything?]] We'll ask a representative of the Minister of Culture to appear in the courtroom. I invite you to speak with Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u114	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment made by my previous speaker on behalf of the Kukiz club15 is precisely the obligation of the High House to work intensively on media policy in Poland as soon as possible, because the real challenges of the 21st century in this media policy are enormous. There is a great need to involve various social groups: and journalists, and NGOs, and people of culture, because what is important... There have often been accusations against journalists from this stand, but let us be aware that the conditions they have to work, to provide this reliable information, are we going to create at the moment. So this reality -- these working conditions that we're going to create for them -- obliges us to separate public media at all. And that's an amazing problem, because right now switching from group to group doesn't do that. Of course, as a friend here he mentioned, we give credit to trust, but this work, six months it is not a long time because a number of different public consultations should be carried out and, as I already called on yesterday, to create a detailed work schedule, detailed solutions, a list of the different social groups that we will invite to cooperate - this is required here. I would also like to oblige the chairman of the Committee on Culture to submit this to the members of the Committee on Culture, because so far there are difficulties in getting some prints on time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u115	Thank you very much, Member. I want to tell you that we've checked. The government has not authorized anyone, has not delegated anyone to listen to today's debate. I invite you, Mr... [[Voice from the room: It's a scandal.]] [[Scandal. Another scandal.]] [[Voice from the room: Okay.]] Unfortunately, I am very sorry that there is no one and no one listens to what the Members say. [[Voice from the room: There's a broadcast on TV.]] I invite Mr Grzegorz Furga, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's really sad... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[They're ashamed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u117	I'm asking you to calm down. Allow the Member to speak freely.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u118	It's very sad that these benches are empty, but at least I'm glad she's the head of Mrs. Raven's culture committee. We had our first reading of the revision of the Radio and Television Act. The new law is no small amendment. It doesn't regulate anything other than staff aspects of removing old and accepting new ones, from now on obedient. The mechanisms that Law and Justice use to take over the media are disturbing. During the work in the committee, the Moderna requested the following changes. Firstly, we have requested that the public media authorities be restored to their term of office. The Law and Justice proposal abolishes the term of office, but also introduces the principle of the appointment of members of public media authorities directly by the Minister of Treasury. We consider both principles to be dangerous to public media, as well as harmful to public discussion. A president who doesn't know a day or an hour will never think about a long-term strategy. He will seek to keep the governor in a good mood, because the bad mood of the governor may be equal to the cancellation of his position. [[The age of suckers is over.]] This situation is stupid and detrimental to the public interest. Secondly, we wanted to restore the registration of candidates for board members and supervisory boards in regional radio and television centres through local environments. It turns out that this amendment also did not find recognition in the eyes of the majority of the PiS. Only the Minister's candidates are possible, they don't need to know the full extent of the local specifics. I understand that you are only interested in national media and are only seeking them, but outside Warsaw there is Poland and this Poland lives its problems, its successes. Thirdly, we wanted to save the competition for the president of television and public radio. We thought that the full principle of the cast of competition positions would not continue, but being president of such complex institutions as the media requires very specific skills. From poverty the competent chairman, even surrounded by the mediocre but faithful board, will manage somehow. This amendment has also fallen, and I heard from Mr Jaworski that I am defending some media agreement in which I participated. Mr President, I did not participate in any personal arrangements in public media unlike you. But Mr Jaworski is not here. Ladies and gentlemen! What's happening is scary. One of the members of the PiS at this committee meeting told me proudly - and it is true - that he heard on the radio this morning that the PiS is as effective as Putin in Russia. He said it offended him because they're faster than Putin in Russia. [[Oh!]] I admire the patterns you have. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Who said that, sir? It's worth mentioning.]] This bill is trivially simple in its pronunciation. It is about wishing for New Year's Eve at a TV party by Two in Wroclaw, a law and justice officer, not President Daszczyński. That's why the Sejm is meeting tonight, the Senate tomorrow, and the president is standing by. It's not bad governance, it's real madness, it's putting the media and boards in almost divine position. This bill is wrong and silly. Its only goal is to take over public media within 48 hours, without looking at the consequences or substantive issues. It's scary. The Modern Club will object to the adoption of this law in its wording, which, moreover, is not much different from the original project. At the same time, Madam President, we maintain the willingness to work in the normal way - I stress: the normal way - of fully amending the Act on Radio and Television, although I did not expect anything good after this law on stools in public media. Finally, ladies and gentlemen - it is up to the whole political class - such a digression that it was the whole political class that took this very dangerous game with the media, which she has lost with cretes. She lost because she's been out of professionalism for years. You became political celebrities at your own request, and that's not why you were chosen. And the media can use celebrities very quickly, but also - uglylylyly - spit out quickly. [[And toss it off the horse.]] That is why you have now decided to take revenge by filling high positions with your faithful army. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u119	Thank you very much. I invite Mr. Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club. You have very little time. I do not know if you are an MEP. There isn't. Thank you very much. The next floor will be taken by Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, club PSL. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The procedure shows us that there is no interest from the government, which unfortunately we must regret. I wish Poland well, so I also wish that all these assumptions which Members, parliamentarians of Law and Justice announce, will be realized. But we remember 2005. Also around Christmas, the media bill was changed in 48 hours, and New Year's Eve was published. After 10 years, this story circles a circle. The Member said: civilise the situation. I think it's 24 more hours and then media rehabilitation of journalists. I will indicate the mode of work on the parliamentary bill amending the Act on Radiophony and Television: Tuesday hours. 23.46 - The Sejm began work on the bill, first reading, hour. 1.39 - addressed to the committee on Wednesday at 1 p.m. 9.10 - beginning of committee meeting. Now we have a second reading, probably about an hour today. 14 will be the third reading and vote, I suppose the Senate will accept the bill without amendment on Thursday, and I am convinced that President Andrzej Duda will sign this bill because he will have it. And the Civil Service Act. [[A prophet or something?]] This is the procedure for proceeding laws, parliamentary laws, in implementation of the Law and Justice. Now it's committee work, same rule. In fact, a fictional job is being created, whether in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal or civil services, we had this example, or today also the law on the prosecution. Abolition of competitions, appointments, departure from competence requirements for the sake of, unfortunately, only the PiS card. It was to be a great law reforming public media, after all it was announced and in the election campaign, and in the last two months. I really expected such a bill. Instead of this great reform today we are dealing with a small law, unfortunately, with the so-called. I think Mr. Czabański and Mr. Kurski haven't agreed on the distribution of the media loot yet. If the media are national, I am convinced that the whole society will decide to pay this tribute, which is the subscription. Unfortunately, if the national media are in the release of the TVP PiS, only the electorate of the PiS will want to watch it. I have a question: Will the subscription have to be paid by all Poles or only by PiS voters? [[That's what our constituents will pay.]] Once again, unfortunately, you have given us your statutory changes embarrassing, simply. Night mode, urgent, parliamentary, without any public consultation, with the maximum limit of time for media information - today still public and commercial. [[All the cameras were there.]] [[But people are asleep.]] I have some sad news about commercial media that doesn't seem to concern them. You are wrong because, as part of the new tasks imposed on the National Media Council, it will be equipped and even armed with various instruments, including financial ones. It's a matter of giving illegal, probably in the opinion of the PiS, or perhaps rather unreliable information. [[People work for your salary.]] [[Yours, too.]] [[I just respect them...]] Well, once upon a time, your envoy...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u121	I apologize, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u122	...wanted to send in military doctors. Today one of the messengers wants to do backpacking and rehabilitation courses for journalists in Toruń. This is a model example of a discussion about reliable journalism. Unfortunately, judging by the statements made by the members of the PiS against the media and journalists, I understand that you are demanding that the media treat the PiS in accordance with the adopted government policy, or that you introduce a media rehabilitation course and separate objectives of meditation. In applying for the rejection of the bill in its entirety, I will remind you of the words that you probably all remember, or at least you should. Lech Kaczyński said in 2008: "If we go back to the structures within which the government appoints the head of television, and this is supposed to be a depoliticisation of public media, then we are dealing with such a situation, I will remain silent, that if you have the right support in the media, you can literally do anything. You can show a black wall and say it's white. I hope the public media never will. Thank you very much, I ask you to reject the bill in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u123	Thank you very much. 40 Members have asked questions. I'm closing the list. Time for questioning is set for one minute, and I would ask you very much to try to keep this timeline in place. The first vote will be taken by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u124	If we go back to the structures within which the government appoints the head of television, I'll be quiet. If you have the right support in the media, you can literally do anything. You can show the black wall and say that it is white," said President Lech Kaczyński. And how fittingly in these words is the Law and Justice messenger who wrote: "Today we will adopt a'small' law on TVP and public radio. We'll change their authorities. In a few days, there will be honest information messages. The voters will finally know what the government, the Sejm and the President are doing for them. Ms J. Dobrosz-Oracz, Ms. Kraśko, Mr. Lewicka, Mr. Tedla, both Lisów and the rest of the liars will be assigned to the media rehabilitation courses to the Higher School of Social and Media Culture to Torun. And that's what your standards are. This is yours. PiS-owska good change. Why do you want to make public television government? Why do you want to throw the authorities, the journalists, out of work with one move? Why, with one move, will you appoint new ones - without competitions and without term of office? Why do you want to finally show Poles that what is black is white and what is white, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it black? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u125	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was supposed to be a good change. Yes, a good change, a change in transparency, transparency, where Law and Justice stand and defend the law, where they defend justice. And what do we read in the bill? [[Voice from the room: What are you saying?]] The Act states that the defendants are protected by a final judgment of the court for intentional offences prosecuted by a public prosecution or a tax offence that is detrimental to the company. Who? Ladies and gentlemen, members of the board of directors, members of the board of directors. The PiS proposes to delete two articles from the bill, which refer to the fact that a member of the Management Board may be cancelled in the cases I mentioned. Similarly with Article. 28, in which the PiS proposes to delete the same rules as those applicable to members of supervisory boards. What hypocrisy [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's in the O.R.! What are you capable of? You're protecting criminals. Is that what you wanted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u127	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is probably one of the last broadcasts on public television. Please turn on all the recordters so that there is at least a memory of such a debate, because I think there was a time and that time has passed. This is the time when the public media - TVP PiS - will inform us about everything that is important in the country and what is clearly representing only one side of the dialogue. Art. 54 Constitution: freedom of speech and freedom of expression derived from the independence of the media... [[Voice from the room: Censor.]] ...the independence of the media guaranteed by the Constitutional Tribunal. You're gonna laugh, I'm gonna laugh. Here's a constitution without a guarantor, public media without a guarantee, and we, all of us... [[Poles.]] ... Poles [[♪ The bell ♪]] remaining with only one transmission: TVP PiS. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u129	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, an appeal, Your Marshal, for him to appear. Someone from the government didn't work. I just had a question to the government and I think that this question has many Poles, because it was promised in the election campaign to all Poles that there would be a new media law, that there would be a general payment for media services, that the fees would be half lower. That's what we were promised. It was in that blue briefcase, and today we find out... [[In the file.]] ...that all that's left of it is a bank heist. In the meantime, information is being made that maybe in the future we will be considering a new media law. I don't think that's what the Poles expected, and I think my question will stay unanswered, because I don't expect half of the PiS here to answer me, because it's certainly not going to be a fair and honest answer. [[Voice from the room: Yes, I'm sure.]] However, the government has nothing to say to Poles today and it is not on the stand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u131	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u132	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Quote: The Party has two fundamental objectives: take over the entire globe and eliminate the freedom of thought once and for all. [[Do you hear me, man?]] 1984, George Orwell. More can be said, de facto justifying the parliamentary project concerning radiophony and television: The party wants power only for the power itself. We don't care about the good of humanity, we only care about power. Not wealth, luxury, long life or happiness, but only power, pure power. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth going back to 1984 and we will return to it, because in front of our eyes the concept of television is fulfilled, which not only can be watched, but thanks to which we can be monitored in a moment. That's what we talked about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the case of the previous law. The question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u133	Finish your work, sir. Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u134	...where in all this is the National Radio and Television Council, which is at the head... of the freedom of speech on radio and television? Has this proposal been submitted in this regard and has the national council expressed its views on this matter? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[There's not much left of the knight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u135	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[I'm smart.]] I have a question for the project applicants whether they would consider introducing an autocorrection and changing the name from national media to government or party media. Judging by the appointment procedure of the public media board, it will be government media and it will be legal then. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yes, they are, I agree, Mrs, so maybe we should not make fiction like it has been for years, and let us introduce the name of the government media, it may already be your contribution to this law. But I have one more question. Now, what are you going to call independent journalists who are probably going to power these government media? Are they still going to be independent journalists or are they going to be government journalists now? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's a great question. Fantastic.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u137	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the Law and Justice! This isn't about the media. You lead your own private vendetta in eight years of opposition, that's what it looks like. Public media, whatever they may be, will now become media simply one party. So I wanted to ask you a question. You require certain competences from candidates for board members and supervisory boards. [[They don't require any.]] Very good. It's about some knowledge, some skills. On the other hand, what skills does the Minister competent for treasure matters, now Mr Jackiewicz, have in choosing such persons? Shouldn't he have some knowledge, skills to make such a good choice? However, is only the party card sufficient? [[That's enough.]] You seem to have a very short bench of people you can fill your posts with, so you are eliminating all possible competitions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u139	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There are many models of governance and supervision of public media in Europe. Most often, the British BBC is cited as a reliable model, famous for its independence and objectivity. This is primarily decided by the pluralistic system of establishing and financing this institution, which is protected by the Queen herself. Similarly, high marks are collected by the German ZDF or the entire ARD as a media channel. It also retains its objectivity because it is established in a pluralistic manner with the participation of lands and a number of other institutions. Incidentally, this model was imposed on Germany just after the war by the Allies who wanted to avoid returning to the time of propaganda known from the Third Reich. In Poland, there has also been a model in the last 25 years of freedom. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the appointment of public media. The intention was to be impartial and independent. I'm not saying that this model was working properly, that's not true. It wasn't working properly, but that doesn't mean it needs to be removed today. It should be corrected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u141	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u142	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of your fellow Members said that you are introducing this law because this is a consequence of the diagnosis. So I wanted to remind you all of the consequences of the state of government in the Polish Television in 2005-2007. [[Voice from the room: Go ahead.]] There's a report from the NIK who's negative for your activities. At what points? [[What year?]] There's been a significant deterioration in this period... [[Voice from the hall: From yours.]] ...the financial and economic situation of the company. [[Who wrote this?]] [[Voice from the room: In what period?]] Employing employees in the company... [[Your CEO Jezierski.]] ...was not conducted in a cost-effective manner. [[Voice from the room: your president.]] Three. Cases of non-compliance with legal provisions were found when hiring and firing employees of the company. Let me remind you that Mr Czabański, who is the author of this fantastic bill, received 400,000. checks. How will you look your parents in the eye? Next point. Cases of incorrect conclusion of legal service contracts have been identified. Cases of abnormal [[♪ The bell ♪]] management of the company's assets. Cases of infringements have been identified in the award of public contracts.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u143	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u144	There have been irregularities in the provision of... [[Question, question.]] ...and archiving software collections. The company's board of directors didn't have an effective... [[Time.]] ...supervising TVP's field departments. NIK report, ladies and gentlemen, please learn to read... [[Applause]] [[But who wrote it? Who wrote it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u145	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Marzena Okłę-Drewnowicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After all, no one in this Chamber today has any doubts, neither members of the coalition nor Members of the opposition, that the public media are to be at the service of the governing camp. After all, it was already and we remember it perfectly. [[That's what you did. Don't you?]] I remember that even though... At a time when you ruled, in the years 2006-2007, in my region, in the Świętokrzyskie region, it was enough to call one of the popular Members of Law and Justice to follow him to every celebration he appeared at. [[But specifically, a name. Name. What a name.]] That's what happened. [[But who? Name?]] But we've restored normality, and even... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u147	Mrs... Excuse me. The Member is now speaking... [[But don't let him lie. Don't lie to me.]] ...and I'm asking you to stop the argument from the courtroom. [[The voice from the room: But he's lying.]] I ask you to remain calm, sir. [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u148	...and even in our regional unit, in the Kielce ward, there was no longer a situation that there was no room for Members of the PiS or for Members of the Civic Platform. Now there was room for everyone. So I understand that this [[♪ The bell ♪]] the amendment or the law that you are introducing is intended only to change staff... [[What nonsense, Jesus.]] ...so these calls can be made. No bugs, of course. These. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u149	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15. Are you an MP? There isn't. So let's move on to the next question. Mr. Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15. [[We call for a good speech.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently in the Polish Television employees have been outsourced, employees of Polish Television, and the nature of this is somewhat similar to the nature of the work in the supermarket. I don't think it should be that these often anonymous TV workers who depend on the quality of this program, not on the stars, but on them, should be taken seriously and should be adequately rewarded. That is why I call for this to happen. And the question to the applicants: Is it even considered whether there is a close-hearted idea of better remuneration for these small, ordinary, anonymous, but hard-working radio and television workers, or just other stars, just others?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u151	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope that, today, when discussing the Radio and Television Act, Members of the governing majority will behave more decently than last night's debate. The new rules aim to limit the role of the National Radio and Television Council. Her powers will be transferred to the treasure minister. On the other hand, the Government of Law and Justice significantly increases expenditure on the National Radio and Television Council in the next year's budget. I ask you to answer the question of how the National Radio and Television Council's budget will be increased due to its limited competence. And one more question for you, Professor Pavlowicz. She was here, but I see she left. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the courses and lectures for journalists designated by PiS at the Toruń Higher School of Social and Media Culture with the director's father, who are media rehabilitation, be subsidised from the state budget? Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You're free.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u153	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[But you'll start with kindergarten.]] [[Mr. President, you're going to...]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, you're catching more outposts... My friends, too. ... You're catching more beaches in the fight against Polish society. [[Oh, my God, Madame, Madame.]] This time, there was a bill on the wallpaper, which you described as a media law, and it's really a prosthetic act. The aim of this prosthesis is to gag the lips of Polish media, public media so far, and in fact, to take them on a chain and simply vanquish them. [[Oh, my God.]] And you're in such a hurry to do it, that you don't even make appearances of any democratic action, you just go all the way. And you're saying you're doing this for good publicity. And you're really doing this for the good news of the PiS media. Why do you want to change the bill so quickly? You really couldn't explain it to us at any committee meeting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more thing for me to say to you. If you fire all those journalists, why hire the next one? Employ Members of the PiS, one with the other will interview, you will record, you will let go, and that will be the media pluralism. [[Applause]] [[That's a good idea.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u155	Thank you, Member. Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club. [[Sometimes they'll get away with it.]] [[Voice from the hall: We have journalists, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u156	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not ask about the mode or method of proceding or vacathio legis, because it is a pity, but it shows how you respect citizens and their voice, as evidenced by the lack of any consultation. Don't worry, I'll ask you a few questions. I wonder what really is the purpose of the changes that you are making, because certainly not the transmission of reliable information or the creation of national television, because we do not know any assumptions about this project. Or maybe the goal is, as Prof. Pawłowicz informed us, that voters should only learn the one and only true truth about the only righteous. Or maybe it's a way to support the High School of Social and Media Culture of the Director's father through the rehabilitation professor you announced... [[It's boring, come up with something new.]] ...media courses for insubordinate journalists. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u157	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, the Civic Platform Club [[Come up with something smart.]] [[Then come out and say something smart.]] [[I'm getting ready for you. You'll see. Go to the hairdresser first. You can clean my shoes.]] [[Sir, stop it.]] [[What? But you're weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Freedom of expression, freedom of expression and pluralism are the foundation of media activity. Meanwhile, changes to the Media Act are the elimination of competitions for the positions of board members, media presidents, as well as members of supervisory boards. The members of the boards and supervisory boards shall be appointed by the Minister of the Treasury, the mandates of the current authorities shall expire at the time of the entry into force of the Act, and the Act shall enter into force at the time of the announcement, the cadence of the public media authorities shall be removed, the appointment of the directors of regional centres shall be changed, the Management Board shall be appointed and not the Supervisory Boards shall be appointed. The Act allows to change the statute of television and radio without the approval of the National Radio and Television Council. And that's what this freedom and pluralism is supposed to be. The provisions of the above amendment therefore constitute only a smokescreen to get rid of the current boards and to replace them with persons directly subordinate to the PiS. Another freedom of citizens is being broken down by blocking the activities of independent public media and introducing their own boards appointed without any qualifications. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u159	Thank you very much, Member. I will ask Mrs Mirosława Nykiel to ask her questions. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Voice from the room: But don't tell us what's relevant.]] [[But I'm expressing my judgment.]] [[Voice from the room: Was there a substantive question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Is changing presidents of public media to their own, without any criteria, competitions, a good change that you promised Poles? [[Yes.]] Is this a fundamental reform of public media? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Is it a matter of not being recommended by creative environments, by universities and selected by means of competitions? [[Voice from the room: Now selected by PO.]] Is it about following the principle: passive, mediocre, but faithful? [[Voice from the room: That's the way it is right now.]] Do you pursue the principle: Whoever controls the media - controls the mind? It's a road to nowhere. Don't go that way. [[Applause]] [[To the mind.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u161	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Wasilewska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're hours away from when the ruling party will turn public media into government media. New... [[But they already know...]] We know, we know, yeah. The new media bill will settle it. And how will the provisions of the Press Law be in this situation? How will journalists be privileged? Art. 1 Press law says, I quote: The press, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, enjoys freedom of expression and realizes the right of citizens to provide them with accurate information, transparency of public life and control and criticism of society. If the media are unreliable now because they criticize the government, what criticism will be allowed since January? [[Substantive.]] And here's the punch line. Ladies and gentlemen, who has the media, loses the election. [[Applause]] [[One thing's better.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u163	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Jan Warecha, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u164	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Members and Members of the Civic, Modern, Polish People's Party Platform! Now that you're being listened to, it feels like you're being removed from your feet like you've lost someone close to you. When we talk about the media bill, it's like you're gonna be in mourning. [[Seriously, let's not overreact.]] And, ladies and gentlemen, remember, all of this, all of these charges that you are presenting to us right now, relate exactly to you. You don't know how the bill's gonna work yet... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean no?]] ...you don't know exactly what personal changes are going to be... [[Voice from the hall: And you know.]] ...and you're already presenting a dramatic situation. Meanwhile, I will only use one example, from March this year, when there was an election campaign, for the candidate of the Civic Platform Bronisław Komorowski was allocated in March 3 hours 15 minutes, for the candidate Andrzej Duda - 22 minutes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[That's why he lost.]] Visits, whether from China or France or from other visits - very little time, were ignored as visits irrelevant. [[Court...]] When it comes to sports broadcasts, public television loses in confrontation with Polsat and Eurosport. There's a lot to do from here...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u165	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u166	...needs the integrity of public television. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u167	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u168	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members of the Law and Justice, Applicants! I don't know if you realize that, from a democratic point of view, the combination of politics and public media is as dangerous as the proverbial third rail in the subway. [[I don't know that proverb. Do you know that proverb? What's the proverb?]] I wonder what the news will look like now under your rule, whether Mr Kurski will read it, and its content will be arranged by Mrs Pawłowicz, whether the press programmes will be conducted so that colleagues from your benches will replace journalists, because I can already see that some are sitting there, and you will only invite those who are sitting right and left in their own club. What will they look like? Like children's programs? Will they only be left with the storybooks? [[No, it'll be about the fox of sneaky.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the history of Polish politics clearly shows: the one who fights the media dies from the media. That's what I sincerely wish you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u169	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The first rule given to young doctors is not to hurt. This principle I would like to propose to you, because since we started sittings, their main objective is to make changes, personal changes. Every man does something good, does something bad. It's normal. I think you don't have a patent, an exclusive patent for wisdom, either. It's not teaching, and it's not talking about humility, but at some point we start to feel like we're not in the Seym, we're in some crazy pot where you don't know when you're gonna work, and you don't know what you're gonna do. One thing is known: it will change people. And I'm gonna ask you one question. Is it true - this question is asked when you already have the impression that you are not talking about reality, but about some aberration - that the competitions will be replaced, competitions on TV, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The competitions are going to be converted into appointments everywhere? That's how it used to be. Let's not go back to that reality because we're all misjudged. Let's change what needs to be changed, but sometimes let's think about what doesn't need to be changed, because every change you make, every change, especially about personal changes...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u171	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u172	I'm almost done, Marshal. ...can be a good change, can be a fatal change. You do not accept criticism or anything that could serve the good. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: End of time.]] And one last thing. This bill, called the media bill, will be another act called the night bill. It's not normal either, and it's not good either. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[There's no night. Now it's night?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u173	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The association of European journalists calls on the Polish government to refrain from completely subjugating public media. The organization sent an open letter to the Minister of Culture and National Heritage of Piotr Gliński and his deputy, Krzysztof Czabański, responsible for the reform of public broadcasters. A similar appeal had previously been made by the European Broadcasting Union, which sent a letter to Marek Kuchciński's Marshal. I understand that no one here is interested in such a position, but we are already prepared. This afternoon, the bill will adopt the Sejm, the Senate will vote it on New Year's Eve, then the president will be called on to sign the bill. It's instant proceding as if it doesn't correspond to the dance you're proposing for this year's New Year's Eve party. It's a ladle dance. [[We don't want to dance.]] On the other hand, I am convinced that this dance step will apply only this season. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[That's stupid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u175	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The independence of public media is a value, a determinant of a democratic state. The Civic Platform respected these standards. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: No, please don't lie.]] Yes. Unfortunately, now we can only dream of it. [[Voice from the courtroom, Marshal...]] The bill is proceded with great determination, at night, at a record rate does not arouse delusions. We're going in the opposite direction. [[When's the night?]] Subpoenaing the media of the ruling party is the main objective. The media will continue to inform the public about good changes now, about great bill designs that are not really there... [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You couldn't do it, we did it.]] ...until the Poles believe it. [[They'll believe it.]] No, unfortunately, the Poles won't believe it. I have a question. There's a staff jump. What's gonna happen to the reporters? What's their future? [[Voice from the room: SKOK-U Volomin.]] Today we heard from this tribune that television is a habitat [[♪ The bell ♪]] of all evil. What are the standards for journalists? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u177	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u178	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is nothing in the bill that would apparently improve the work of public media, improve their funding model or give them a chance to improve the quality of the programmes. Members and Members of the PiS will this time make it clear what it is about: gagging journalists and forcing them to preach the propaganda mush of government and party. Nothing more. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Lies again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, sleep. Lech Kaczyński sold independent opposition publications, and at the round table he fought for independent media. [[Voice from the room: He's lying.]] He did it, among other things. It's okay. Tadeusz Mazowiecki and hundreds of other people who risked their health and their lives for free media. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Please mention Jaruzelski.]] If they were in this room today, they would be ashamed to see you destroy one of the greatest achievements of Polish democracy: freedom of speech. [[Voice from the room: You would burn yourselves out of shame.]] I have a question for you: Will the next step be the introduction of preventive censorship? I assure you, then the opposition press will be pulling people out of their hands. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: At the moment there is a preventive censorship used by the Platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u179	Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'd very much like to ask you in the O.R. to heat up and not comment on it. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: You have to respond to lies.]] I invite Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club. [[And I thought she was smarter.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u180	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! About free media is basically Today we are talking for the last time, because today we could start organizing a free media wake. Law and Justice went... [[Voice from the room: Eight years.]] ...in an election campaign with this slogan of fighting... Mr President, please don't argue with me. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] Because you need to get up here on the stand...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u181	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u182	...and here you will have the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: 'Cause it's not a building. These are serious topics.]] This isn't the place to yell, okay? A little culture. You've just buried free media today, because today, in one 24-hour period, you're able to... [[Voice from the hall: Eight years ago, you buried free media.]] Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u183	Gentlemen, please calm down. [[Voice from the room: Calm down.]] Please, until the O.R. calms down, don't speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u184	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u185	I'm asking you to calm down. [[Get the Members who are screaming out.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u186	You guys buried the free media today. [[Voice from the room: Eight years ago.]] You were going to the election... [[Voice from the room: Not yet.]] ...in an election campaign with such a slogan that you are fighting the alleged arrogance of power. Today it would be worth asking the Polish Language Council, which means the word: arrogance, because I do not find... [[Voice from the room: Platform.]] ...in the dictionary of the Polish language term for what you are doing. Mrs Fabisiak asked here in a desperate tone if it is true that you are rejecting competitions. Yes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why do you need competitions, why do you need clear, transparent cooperation with cultural environments, with scientific communities that have designated their representatives for... [[Voice from the room: Bury!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u187	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u188	...candidates to be on public media boards.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u189	...go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u190	Today the public media will be subordinated to you because it is the treasure minister who will appoint his man, with the PiS patch, of course, to the head of the media.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u191	You're welcome... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] [[Voice from the room: We already know that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u192	I'm outraged by what you're doing. The funeral of the public media is now underway.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u193	Go ahead and finish it, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u194	I realize that free media, social media won't forget what you've done, and they won't let you murder a free word. [[Applause]] [[Your marshal, are you gonna prolong everyone's time like this?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u195	Thank you very much, Member. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Please, Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u196	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You are complaining very much about public media, but when I read the results of research on recent parliamentary elections - and PiS won these parliamentary elections, I wanted to say... [[Voice from the room: Who did these tests?]] ...and this research was done by the Medioscience Research Laboratory of the University of Warsaw... [["Gazet Wyborcza"]] ... Medical Research Laboratory at the University of Warsaw... ...it follows from them that Polish Television reported on the course of the election campaign conducted this autumn in a balanced manner and at a high level of substance. The analysis of the electoral debates showed a level playing field between the participants in the debates, which shows a high degree of precision in their implementation. [[It's like I heard someone from the press...]] The monitoring also shows that the most transparent structure of electoral information had news about TVP1. They were distinguished by a high level of substance and detail of the topics discussed, etc., etc. I ask you: What do you want to improve in these media, if not everything there is perfect, erasing competitions, erasing cadence, erasing the selection criteria of the authorities [[♪ The bell ♪]] And introducing a one-man minister's decision there, who can every president of a television station...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u197	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u198	...at any time to call or to slow down at any time?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u199	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u200	What is this improvement? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u201	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The journalist has to be objective and he has to tell us what it's like. And today there is this mechanism: journalists are forced in large part to be subordinate to power. This mechanism is very simple: very low remuneration, first, and second, grants from local government officials, from the president, from the voivodeship, from the marshal as a supplement to the salary. The journalist is unable to live out his salary today, so he is implementing the program e.g. promotion of the voivodship. The whole mechanism is designed so that the journalist has no choice but to serve power. A journalist can't talk about what it's like because he's only alive because of party activists. [[Formal conclusion.]] Always. I ask: How does the current government intend to eliminate this obvious pathology? If you don't take care of it, there will be absolutely no chance of independent media. I dare say that the current commercial construction of journalists is specially designed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u203	Thank you very much. With a formal proposal from President Raven. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a half-hour break for the club on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[There are two more questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u205	Can't we continue with the questions? [[After the questions.]] Can't we continue with the questions? Can't the club get together anyway, 'cause we're stalling. The vote won't be long before then. 16. [[Barely a wheel.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u206	I'd like to... I don't think that's gonna change much, either now or then we're gonna run these... [[But the members of the club aren't in the courtroom, your marshal.]] I'd really like to ask you to take a half-hour break on behalf of the club right now. [[Put it to the vote.]] [[Let's finish the questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u207	It was a motion filed on behalf of the club... [[On behalf of the club.]] . . Ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the hall: We also make on behalf of the club.]] . . And that's the rule. It's a half-hour break. [[We don't have...]] [[Voice from the room: They're...]] But we're not. There are rules in this Seym... [[Voice from the hall: But they do not give us.]] ...were always. If the club wants a break, it's a break. And I hope it continues to apply. [[We're not the PiS.]] [[Voice from the hall: Bravo for the marshal, but no applause for Marshal Kuchciński.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 37 until 3 p.m. 14 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 10 of the agenda. I invite Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Platform Club, to ask the question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u208	Thank you very much, Marshal. You can see that this pause in the performance of the PiS has not affected the Council of Ministers to be able to appear... [[They work hard. The Council of Ministers is working.]] ...and the citizens who are listening to this debate could see what this compromising change in the implementation of the PiS is all about. A few hours ago another gift Law and Justice prepared for Poles, because there was a gift for the Christmas tree, not for Poles, but for the president, or ruining the Constitutional Tribunal. And I see that PiS is trying very hard to prepare another gift for your president, this time for a new year, which is public television, which is not going to be called public television any minute now, but TV PiS-em, and who knows, given the announcements of great candidates, maybe TV Kurski will show up. Ladies and gentlemen! These are embarrassing situations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's supposed to be a good change, it's supposed to be 500 zlotys per kid, and you're really trying to take over public media.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u210	In fact, you're the best example of how public media works, because it's thanks to these media that you won the election. So, if there's anything... [[Ha, ha, ha!]] There's nothing to laugh about, sir, unless you say you didn't win these elections. [[Yeah, yeah...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u211	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u212	If something works well, why change it? It's worth remembering. [[But he's a smart guy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u213	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Members of the Law and Justice! What you have been doing since the first day of taking power in Poland is hypocrisy, hypocrisy in its purest form. You carry on the lips and banners of values, which every day, every action and every subsequent act you destroy, because the values that the government is guided by, we know by laws, not by words spoken at rallys or even from the Seym's pulpit. That is why I have a question, but not to Mrs Bubula or Mr Suski, but to Prime Minister Beata Szydło, for whom Polish families are the most important. Prime Minister, are you really convinced that Polish families need the most, eagerly waiting for you to remove uncomfortable journalists and presidents of public television? [[Applause]] [[They've had enough of hate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u215	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Urszula Pasławska, club PSL. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u216	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have three questions and I would very much like to be surprised and this time to get answers, because so far I haven't gotten any answers to any of the questions I have asked, including the exposé. But to the point. First of all, why are you shutting down the competitions? Is this because of the fear that your media professionals are not highly qualified to pass the competition, and there is a risk that another person will win the competition? Second: Why do you give up the recommendation you have already received from university senates of academic backgrounds and replace this recommendation with a political recommendation? After all, this recommendation will be given by the Minister of the Treasure. And the third question is, what about regional media? High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen, there is no politics, there is life, there are social matters, there are local affairs. Question: "Will the presidents, the directors, be brought there as well?" [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the files? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u217	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask your fellow Members a question. Is there an audience, or is there a journalist or a journalist in public media, on public television, which one do you like? [[Voice from the room: Lichocka.]] [[Hurry up.]] Because if we find out that someone is, then we can define criteria and axiology... [[Voice from the room: It's not about pleasures.]] ...which you will follow in the future, directing public media.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u219	Thank you very much, sir. [[We're gonna have a relationship with the theater.]] I'm asking you to calm down. I invite Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have one request. Do not put all public media in one bag, because we are dealing with public radio stations - I am talking about the state radio, but also about regional radio stations, which are really the pearl in the crown of Polish media. This is the last place we can meet species that are extinct today, like a story, like a real interview, like a radio column. This is the place. It's really special. No commercial radio stations deal with this for various reasons - financial, but also competence. In the explanatory memorandum of the Act, you write that as you change their bodies, i.e. regional radio companies, you will exchange management boards there. Please mark this time more precisely to ensure the stability of work in these radio stations. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u221	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u222	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There are no ministers: neither treasure ministers nor cultural ministers. [[Voice from the room: It's a parliamentary project.]] They don't want it, that's the way it would be understood, and you are trying to force and emotionally push it through as Members of the applicant. In fact, it's the last day when the Sejm is being broadcast, because next time you'll say no transmission, and it will be. [[That's what you said.]] And if there is, ladies and gentlemen... You're saying there's no pluralism, and it's from Hurrying up to Lisa. It's on the radio too - if anyone needs to focus... [[He's in the theater.]] ...and he can't leave the house, it's from Mass. To get the music. And let people live peacefully. [[You're the ones who don't.]] Not just the way you want it. Ladies and gentlemen, this project and this great grace, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the next day the law will enter into force. I guarantee that the script will be as follows: 23.40 will be passed, the next day 0.15 - announcement, 0.30 - signature, 0.35 - entrance to television. They're gonna kick everybody out. That's too bad. Fear to be afraid. And I would like to dedicate more humility to you in the new year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u223	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Richard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u224	Mrs. Marshal! To applicants: Do you know a cartoon joke by Andrzej Mleczka entitled: Citizen, don't fuck nonsense? [[You're expressing yourself...]] He'll tell you that if you want to possess something, rape it or destroy it, you should keep the core of rationality and meaning. [[Get off the podium.]] Why should the media to be national shape the treasure minister? What kind of subscription in Poland even knows who this person is? Television, radio is a mission, message, content, spirit, not matter. The company is just an organizational formula. If the media is to be national, why not give them the Minister of Culture and National Heritage? [[Z PO.]] That would make an elementary sense. Unless the Minister and the Prime Minister are resisting an unfortunate debut in Wrocław's theatre. Speaking of Wroclaw, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's time for the Orange Alternative again. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u225	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Suski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I, listening to this debate, wanted to make two amendments to the draft law on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, which would say that, as of the date of entry into force of this Act, the terms of office are reduced and the mandates are expired... [[Voice from the room: Absolutely.]] ... the current members of the Management Boards and Supervisory Boards of the companies Television Polska SA and Polskie Radio SA, subject to paragraph 1. 2 and the Minister responsible for State Treasury will adapt the Articles of Association of TV Polska SA and Polskie Radio SA to the provisions referred to in this Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you a question. I'm running out of time, but I really wanted to ask: How many members of the National Radio and Television Council are independent? Everyone had party support, and Mr. Dworak was, apparently, a prominent activist of the Civic Platform. And what are you defending? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Hyena of the Year, who on TV just...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u227	Please be very careful what you say, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u228	...trying to broadcast a tone of public debate? [[You just said an ugly word, and you didn't notice.]] Hyena of the Year is not an ugly word. [[Very beautiful.]] This is the title given to the journalist who received...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u229	But that's not the form I was referring to...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u230	... Thomas Fox.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u231	...not for that part of your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u232	Thank you, Marshal. I'm making amendments - please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u233	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Paweł Beda, the PSL club. [[This is not a regulation, there are no amendments during questions.]] [[You can finish your second reading. That's the rule of law.]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] But it's not signed, sir. Is it signed? Okay, okay. It's okay. I invite Mr Paweł Beda, the PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u234	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister, with the government, said she was listening to Poles. There is no Prime Minister today, there is no representative of the Ministry of Ministry of Ministry with regard to the Act on Public Media discussed today - yet on public media. And I have a question for you. After all, we were chosen by Poles. The Prime Minister said that she would listen to Poles, and we were chosen by Poles, not aliens, so someone should be here listening to this voter voice. [[It's a parliamentary project.]] And the question, ladies and gentlemen of the applicant country: Will there be release of journalists? If they do, I'd like to know what criteria these people are going to be fired if they do. Will you interfere in their private lives, or will you follow them on social media? Will you ask about their confession? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or are you going to ask how they voted in the last election? I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u235	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Referring to the words of my previous speaker, I would like to ask what high standards these are, what are the powerful social and civic media you defend here. I have here a question for the Member of the applicant: Will such practices take place? Well, we discussed the law on whether the six - year - olds must go to school with the consent of their parents. We're different about what this solution is supposed to look like. The Elbanowskis raised 1,600 thousand. signatures. You can't agree with that. You can - there is debate, there is democracy. Only that the best paid journalist among all journalists of the Polish Television journalist Mr.Tomasz Lis publicly praised this comment: PiS has just adopted a brothel in kindergartens and schools. Period. Ladies and gentlemen! If someone gets a few million zlotys from TVP, then some minimum standards should be maintained. Don't you see that? [[But it's hard with you guys. Very.]] Don't you see that? Here's another interesting quote from the last few hours. Following Mr Winnicki's speech, a comment by Mr Tomasz Lisa was published again: Now some brown Winnicki shaved a modest mustache at the last minute. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! The comparison between someone in Poland and Hitler is the most shameful calumny that can be thrown. And you think these are standards... [[We know something about this, sir.]] ...democratic, and we now want to destroy democratic standards? You should be ashamed to speak at all. [[Applause]] [[But then fire the journalist one and that's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u237	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Edward Siarka, the Law and Justice Club. [[Mr President, I understand that if you think that one journalist doesn't suit you...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'm taking the floor, ladies and gentlemen, because... [[You don't understand.]] ...in all the speeches of the opposition Members... [[He's a flagship journalist.]] ...opposition clubs appear the word key. This word is a competition, a competition for a position - as if you really believed that the competition is a guarantee of apoliticity of public media. What they've been apolitical for the last eight years, we know that. Tell me, do you know at least one contest that won someone who wasn't connected to the Civic Platform? [[Exactly.]] 'Cause I don't know that kind of contest. All the competitions won. [[Applause]] People connected to the Civic Platform... [[Voice from the room: I PSL.]] [[And PSL.]] ...and you want to keep this fiction going. Today, if it is proposed that the cast of all positions relating to television companies should be influenced by a minister who is democratically, by a majority, elected, you say that this is wrong. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's just that you can't keep fooling the public, because for eight years under the cover of the competitions, you did whatever you wanted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u239	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Lichocka, the Law and Justice Club. [[Down with hypocrisy!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the question: Do you recall how journalists and creators from public media were expelled from the Polish Press Agency after the PO-PSL-SLD coalition took over them? I'll remind you a few names. Bronisław Wildstein, Rafał Ziemkiewicz, Jacek Karnowski... [[Ha, ha!]] [[Applause]] ... Krzysztof Skowroński, Marek Pyza, Anita Gargas, Katarzyna Heyke, Tomasz Sakiewicz, Jacek Sobala, Michał Karnowski, Anna Sarzyńska, Witold Gadowski, Mariusz Pilis, Agata Ławniczak, Jolanta Hajdasz, Wanda Zwinogrodzka, Artur Dmochowski, Piotr Skwieciński, Maciej Świrski, Krzysztof Karwowski, Marcin Wikło, Bartłomiej Wróblewski. Minutes aren't enough to name everyone. You threw out all those who weren't slow to you, all those who were critical of this coalition. [[We left Wildstein behind.]] There's one Jan Pospiełski left. The ones you didn't trust, you threw away at the leasing company. This is your respect for freedom of speech - journalists in leasing. [[And you're an independent journalist?]] Under your rule... [[Quiet!]] ...under the rule of you, Mrs. Pomaska... [[Were you independent? Congratulations. How did you become an envoy? Where did you come from? From the media, you came to see PiS.]] ...I got fired from public television run by your friends from the party. [[How did you become a Member, your reporter?]] [[Shut up!]] They came straight from the Ministry of Culture. You want me to name names? [[And where did you come from? From the media, you came to PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u241	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u242	You have no shame. You don't know anything about freedom of speech. Under your rule, there was a second circulation of independent information, independent portals and independent documentary films that were banned... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...on public television. You have no shame. There wasn't a crew like that...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u243	Member, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u244	...after 1989, which hit freedom of speech in Poland. [[You don't even know how to behave in the Seym.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u246	Now the public media that you've taken from you, we want...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u247	Member, finish up. [[Marshal, here's the rule now that you turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u248	...give to Poles, pick up the party nominates PO, PSL, SLD.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u249	Madame, you have exceeded your time...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u250	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u251	It's been almost a minute. [[Bravo!]] Thank you very much. I invite Mr Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u252	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I hear on the Platform and Modern side big crying and great emotions. What are you so afraid of? The truth, the truth, you're afraid. And so far this truth was passed on by a journalist who has the title awarded by the Polish Journalists Association, Tomasz Lis. [[But that fox in his throat is standing. One guy's capable of blowing up a piss.]] You'd like this truth to continue to be shown. It won't. Ladies and gentlemen, two days after the election - I will give you this information - in 2007 Ms Iwona Śledzińska's winnings by the Platform and PSL prepared changes in media law, an amendment that allowed changes in the supervisory boards in the media before the end of her term of office and the filling of her people. [[Yes, sir.]] That was good then? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Exactly.]] Now, despair and weep. I, ladies and gentlemen, declare that every professional, good journalist has nothing to fear. [[Exactly.]] Those like Thomas Fox and his kind may be afraid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u253	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jack the World, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! President Duda was in Ukraine, a very important visit. In public media Almost absent. President Duda in China, a visit very important, even groundbreaking. What the public media... [[We all saw him slip on the wall. Each station showed.]] ...shows? They're taking care of the gobshite on the Great Wall. Four great Smolensk conferences. In each of the more than 100 excellent scientists, he is debating the substantive tragedy of Smolensk. They're not in the media. In the media, on the other hand, there are propagandists from the fox. There is a shocking case of the editor Sumlinski, an interrogation by the prosecution of President Komorowski. There's media? Not at all! They're gone. [[Applause]] December 12 is a manifestation, miraculously multiplied by public... [[Yes, sir.]] ...media up to 50,000. [[By the people who were there.]] You could continue this calculation for a very long time, there's no time for that. Question to the applicant: Is this what reliable media looks like? Is this what public media is supposed to look like? Is there at least one good reason for the media in its current shape to exist? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just one day? [[Applause]] [[There isn't. Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u255	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u256	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Member! I am speaking to Mrs Lichocka. I could return the description of the activities on Mr. Targalski's radio and Mr. Czabański's radio, exchange a long list of names... [[Three, please.]] ...to describe the form in which they fired people, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But I'm not gonna do it. I would like to present a positive voice. Free media is the absolute foundation of a free society. Public media maintained from taxes and public danins must pursue the fundamental public interest of creating an area for public debate, promoting national culture and civic education. Public media is the property of society, not politicians. Information and publicity must be clearly separated. [[Exactly.]] National culture should be promoted by public media. [[Yes, sir.]] Public media, politicians, public media managers whether cultural creators should respect each citizen, regardless of his political views, religion, sexual orientation [[♪ The bell ♪]] or the color of the skin. These are exceptions from the decal of public media, which she created after a modern public consultation. We would like to work with you on these standards. I would like to give these 10 points symbolically to your Member with the hope that there... [[Don't hold out your hand.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Where?]] [[I'll take it. Democracy and pluralism.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u257	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: It will be the truth.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u258	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I, above all, ladies and gentlemen... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, it will be a speech.]] ... I invite the PiS to have the courage to come out here and speak out of the speaker, because, apart from a few exceptions, you sit here and they crack and laugh every once in a while... [[Your Marshal, may I?]] ...from the Parliamentary benches instead of going out and taking the floor. So have courage. [[But the parliamentary projects are signing.]] I understand you have a habit of following the example of the government... [[We don't lack courage.]] ...and the government benches today, with this important bill, are empty. [[Scandal!]] So I get it. That you also lack courage. [[This is a parliamentary project.]] I encourage you not to be afraid. But first of all, I appeal to you to stop using lies because you are notoriously using lies in this room. [[You're lying.]] And I also address Mrs Lichocka. Maybe he can tell us about his honest work as a journalist... [[I'd love to. You've been lying for eight years. You've been lying to journalists for eight years. You have no shame.]] Maybe she can tell us how much she made in public media. Maybe she can tell us about her story and why she's in the PS today, not an independent journalist. [[But we know why.]] [[Because...]] But back to the truth... [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're not gonna scream the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u259	I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u260	Your marshal, just a little while longer, 'cause I'm about to be interrupted by the O.R.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u261	Please, but finish up, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u262	Back to the truth, the most biased and critical of one electoral committee, while the approval of another committee was today's materials... [[Time!]] ...in the TV Republic and the news of the day in Television Trwam. [[Yeah, I...]] This is a report from December 21st this year. prepared by the Medical Research Laboratory of the University of Warsaw. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u263	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u264	You're not gonna scream the truth! I encourage you to tell the truth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u265	Thank you very much, Member. [[Bravo!]] I'm asking you to calm down. [[No, but the emotions were.]] I invite Mr Jack Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm from PiS... [[Get drunk.]] [[Voice from the room: 12 years you have to wait.]] [[18, then Jarosław will be 100.]] ...and I wasn't used to lying. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on public media is not only socially expected but also desirable, especially when we are dealing with the new order of the global media world and so-called. a great stranger who invades our privacy, often wooing our consciousness, seducing it or relativizing it. Therefore, I think that this discussion, which is very emotional here, does not include one of the actors, namely the listener and the viewer, the Polish and Polish, who sit in front of the screen or the radio receiver and receive content that sometimes brings it into the world of seductive, tempting, but untrue reality. That's why when we talk about national media, we think about the media that should be missionary. [[♪ The bell ♪]] fill in at least three areas: caring for the community of the nation, not antagonizing it or excluding or marginalizing any groups...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u267	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u268	...careful of the heritage of national culture, values and language, with special attention to care for the language. There is no hell in us, there is no anger in us, there is a need for community within us. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[It was your dream of a PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u269	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Pasyk from the PSL club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u270	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No one denies the right of Members of the PiS to change, but the way, the style of change, this time regarding public media, is very deluded by those described by the Belarusian oppositionist... [[In 2008, the Council ……]] ...Mr. Andrzej Poczobuta in his book entitled The Belarus system. I would like to recommend - now there will be a New Year's period, a little more time - reading this book. [[Why don't you go there on a trip?]] Think about it, ladies and gentlemen... [[Think about it.]] ...if you would like your governments to be described in a similar way in the future. Question to applicants: Are you not concerned about the international consequences of dismantleing public media in this way... [[Voice from the hall: Targowica!]] [[Voice from the room: German!]] [[Voice from the room: Don't scare!]] ...enjoyed so far a lot of recognition in Europe and in the world? [[Voice from the room: Don't scare people.]] And second question. If you're so disturbed by the editor, Mr. Tomasz Lis... [[Voice from the room: Sutener is.]] ...then why has the empty chair been waiting for your representative on this program for months? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[He's unworthy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u271	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Andzelika Możjanowska, club PSL. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u272	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! And I'll start by congratulating you. Ladies and gentlemen! The Constitutional Tribunal - you did it, the civil service - you can do it... [[Voice from the room: Do not twist. It's not written right on the card.]] ...prosecution - you can do it, public media - you can do it. [[Voice from the room: Six-year-olds.]] Embezzlement, submission and politicisation - without undue delay. But given that... [[Voice from the room: And the bank tax?]] [[Bank tax - we did it.]] ...that you do not accept any criticism, discussion and evaluation, I would like to ask how you have on Facebook and Twitter... [[We can do it, too.]] ...for all social media. [[We can do this!]] Will there also be supervisory boards, or will there be full surveillance? [[We'll figure something out.]] [[Voice from the room: You're very young.]] That's a question. [[This is foreign, private media.]] [[Lucky for you. I'm glad they're here.]] I also have a question for you: In what way - because I understand that you have calculated these names from the past - and as a result of whose decision in 2006, also immediately after the New Year, Bronisław Wildstein became president of the Polish Television? I think [[♪ The bell ♪]] The past should be analysed, but conclusions drawn and a good law made. And that's what we're supposed to have in common here. [[Applause]] [[That's a good change.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u273	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u274	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Although the role of public media is - happily, well - less than in the days of the Sokorski and the radio committee he created, yet many Poles, busy, timeless, overly trusting the media, learn from the public media about the world around them. The platform perfectly understood this and 8 years of government, not only unable, but in many areas harmful to Poland, in these media was presented in an absolutely positive way. [[That was the truth.]] This green island, against the background of the European crisis, has seduced many people. I think it's time for a change, and I'm happy that I'm part of it, too. [[You're gonna red-color it.]] [[Quiet!]] And I would like to remind you of a certain event in 1993, which may appeal to imagination. When Dzierżyński's monument was removed from the banking square, then Dzierżyński's square, as a symbol of communist enslavement over the Polish nation, someone in some profetic prediction wrote black paint on every corner: Hardly, Felix, it must be. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u275	Thank you very much. Mr Szałabawka, the Law and Justice Club, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u276	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What the Civic Platform has done in recent years with the media are Belarusian, Russian standards. What you've led to... [[You won the election.]] ...these socio-technical attempts you've made, these subliminal actions on TV have led to some people being manipulated very heavily. You've led me to believe that... For example, I will give an example of my mother, who is also a person who has fought for democracy. At some point, she couldn't stand to watch the broadcasts and see the breaks in the public media. Luckily for her to find a discount, she started communicating on the Internet and it showed her that there was another way to live. But what do all the older people who do not have access to the Internet have to say for a long time - and so far - listen? And in recent months, the situation is like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] She's tense, she can't stand it. [[But you can always TV Trwam turn on.]] I have a question for the applicant: When is the last time... How long will the elderly have to wait for the public television to be on the radio? [[Voice from the room: Czech truth.]] Because it's all about the truth. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u277	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Joanna Schmidt, the modern club, will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u278	Dear Marshal! Mr Fellowships, Mr Fellow Members, Before I ask a question, literally two sentences. I listened to this debate. Part of the speech is substantive, and there is hope that we are after the same thing, that the media should free them, that they should be depoliticized. I think that we really mean that the public media in Poland should stand up to the task and be free from political influence. But part of the speech is so violent - let us really have such reflection - that from the side it looks like retaliation - Law and Justice for the PO, Civic Platform for Law and Justice. Please, follow these statements and see how it looks. I understand that, but we should play for the same goal. [[That's how it's passed on.]] My question: What is the important interest of the state to justify the entry into force of the law without vacathio legis? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The law on the publication of normative acts requires proof of this, and in writing, I could not find the information justifying the lack of vacathio legis. Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u279	Thank you. [[Formal conclusion.]] Here you go, formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u280	Thank you, Marshal. Maybe it's not that much of a formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u281	If this isn't a formal conclusion, then... [[Oh, no.]] [[Goodbye.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u282	I'm asking you to do something, Marshal. [[No, no, goodbye.]] You added a few people after you closed the list. I'd like to ask a marshal for one minute for me. [[Microphone off, please.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u283	...the vote will now be taken if it pleases, Mrs... Please raise the hand of the person I refused to write down. [[But after closing the list, Mrs...]] Mrs. Krzywonos has not been added. You're welcome... [[I wasn't saved.]] No, sir. [[One minute.]] No, no. [[Excellent speech, sir. That's great. I was shaking. My hair fell out when I saw such a beautiful mind on the platform.]] I'm equal right for everyone, really. [[You were scared.]] Does the applicant want to... Yes. Please, Mrs Bubula. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Allow me to take a little longer, because there have been a lot of questions about why this change is being carried out. And I would like to present some evidence on how important we have the public interest in making a change in the current functioning of public media, especially Polish Television. We are wondering why so few citizens participate in the elections in Poland. It's a worry. All of us. Why don't we have national self-preservation instincts? Why is the self-esteem of Poles so low? Why does he keep reaching out to what he thinks about us in Berlin, London or Paris? [[Applause]] Well, I'm sure that one of the important reasons why we are, is that we are a society, we are a very ill-informed nation. [[Yes, sir.]] I took care of, ladies and gentlemen, some time ago a monthly daily, minute by minute, word by word, picture by image, analysis of subsequent editions of news about hours. 7:30. And it was very easy to diagnose why it was so, as I mentioned at the outset. From the report, which I then prepared and which was presented to the Programme Council of Polish Television, the following came out. The news of the Polish Television during this whole month wondered what we had as a nation. Well: Gérard Depardieu citizen of Russia - 3 times, Dakar rally - 2 times, success of the song - she dances for me, sales in England, cat smuggler in Brazil, people mascot on the streets of cities, gadgets at the fair in Las Vegas, souvenirs from the inauguration of Barack Obama's term... [[Something for the Platform.]] ...image of conductors in InterCity, sympathetic, and very, lemmings, extreme winter sports, injuries in sports, material about snowflakes, rapping grandmother on the Internet, belief in the monster spaghetti and television at Central Station. Here is a list of examples of topics from one month, which appeared in the news about the TVP at 7:30 p.m. And all the entertainment material this month was 33. [[Smolensk wasn't there.]] [[I wonder what happens next.]] For many years, the flagship public television information program was characterized by an unbearable excess of entertainment content. [[I think it's just Smolensk now. Smolensk and Rydzyk's father changed.]] It is characteristic that in the audience's consciousness a picture of a world in which the fun and light treatment of both political and economic and social reality takes place in place of seriousness and deeper meaning. All this month, it was January 2 years ago, there was one information about Polish culture. This concerned the 100th anniversary of the Polish Theatre in Warsaw. There was no news of serious music, books or art. No wonder that a modeled citizen was used to treating culture as an object of his aspiration, he no longer saw it as a common heritage with other compatriots. The consequence is the lack of cultural life connecting the nation, as well as the loss of ties with the cultural world. There was also a lack of information about the achievements of Polish science. On this subject, the viewers received only two brief messages this month: about Polish satellites and participation in brain research. The editorial board of TVP was probably aware that it was necessary to look for what Poles had in common, apart from the sport, which was also much in the news, in addition to sports news, because every once in a while there were attempts to integrate historical content into everyday communication. And there's been about 10 this month, at a time when we have a lot... we've had the anniversary of the January Uprising. In the social model that is ideal news, not only sports and entertainment are supposed to be the connecting elements, but also certain social content. January is every month the special presence of Jerzy Oatsiak on the screen. As we remember, there was a time when there was an image problem... [[You're hurting me! You're still hurting Oatmeal.]] ... Because the hero had expressed his approval for euthanasia before the collection for the treatment of seniors, but the news had moved on nicely to the agenda. They said, namely, that one beautiful day, Jerzy Owsiak withdrew from the statements about euthanasia, so he can start collecting money without obstacles. The collection of money by the Jerzy Owsiak Foundation was presented... [[Christians forgive, Madame.]] ...six times in very extensive materials, while in a short snapshot of one minute the entire Caritas work was presented with an indication of the achievements of the fundraiser during one action, a work of helping children, where 19 million were collected. It has been omitted that the annual fundraiser for Caritas amounts to PLN 500 million at PLN 40.50 million collected by the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid. There was very little information about citizens' association. One material was about organizing people on social media, one was about smog in Krakow, and two stories were about positive activities of homeless people. The problems of small business activity and examples of success of Polish entrepreneurs were lacking. Social themes are a total of 70 topics covered within a month in news. Significantly, information about sick children, about poverty, was presented without an attempt to analyse the causes of wrong health and welfare policies. There's still a message coming from the screen: it's bad and it has to be because the best we can do is throw ourselves into the help of a needy who was lucky enough to be on TV. Throughout January there was no information about unemployment, poverty in the countryside, in small towns, about the increase in the cost of living. The problems in collective communication are practically absent in the news, while the important problem of life for Poles is the elimination of railway lines and the lack of bus connections. It was characteristic of the absence of problems of nature conservation and pollution, water quality, food, except for one brief mention of smog. The subject of demographic disaster in Poland, emigration or lack of housing for the poor was absent. It is remarkable that in the information on the problem of the depopulation of certain cities the news left out the cause of this depopulation, which is the lack of work. The introduction of the euro and the liquidation of trade unions were considered an historic necessity. The economic theme was presented 32 times a month and during the presentation of this topic, the lack of analysis of the reasons for the information on the economic situation was characteristic. [[What bad economic situation?]] During this period, the superman present in this main news broadcast of the Polish Television was Judge Tuley. Namely, he was dedicated to a sequence of as many as nine materials. In this example we can perfectly observe the method of so-called. reverse vectors. The unsub was presented as a sacrifice, and the good was replaced with places of evil. Bribery was considered natural, and CBA's activities and prosecutions were compared to Stalinism. Again interesting convergence with the propaganda line of the Civic Platform - threatening the return of the 4th Republic. [[She's back, unfortunately.]] We've been ordered for many days...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u285	Excuse me, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u286	...act of prosecution against CBA...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u287	Excuse me, miss, can I only be with you... You are presenting a very interesting report on the programme, and Members were hoping that you would answer the questions that were addressed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's not called scaring, it's called anticipation.]] [[Your marshal is interfering with the performance.]] [[Very good answer to the question.]] You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u288	Your Marshal, I take my statement, the answer to all these questions, which were very many and which concerned this, [[Applause]] that good public television is replaced by bad television. Well, that's how I want to prove that there can be no worse public television than the one that's been operating so far. [[Applause]] [[Belarus.]] I'm going back to Judge Tulei's case. The problem of corruption in health care is completely covered. The proportions in the arguments presented indicated whose side the editorial office was on. On January 17, five statements were quoted in defense of the judge. The words were: 'The most famous judge', 'the first attempt to intimidate the judge, 'the disgusting mirroring of family members, 'the division of Poles', 'as the mind ends, are born ghouls.' No more quotes. Only one statement to the judge was critical, it was the statement of the editor of Caesar Gmyz, and the material was titled - and indeed - Respect for Themida. In the editorial commentary on this occasion, the PiS governments are referred to as, quote: The dark reality of those times, the viewer hears that, quote, the list of sins of the CBA is long, and learns that this, I quote: The first such criticism of the IV Polish Republic on the part of the judge, that the judge has the support of the superiors and that the CBA case was certainly still heard. In January we also had an event with bonuses for marshals and Poles were appalled by the news that transsexual Anna Grodzka is running for the Sejm Bureau. The Editorial News welcomes this fact with a comment, and I quote... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: This is not about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u289	It's really...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u290	Anna Grodzka's choice would be a world viewing milestone. End of quote. During that time, there were draft laws in the Sejm... [[Beautiful, Basia.]] ...about partnerships whose presentation was combined in the news with homosexual propaganda. We received a sentimental picture of a gay couple with their fondly intertwined hands and learned that all over the world, including conservative Great Britain, are legalizing same-sex relationships... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u291	However, I would very much ask you to answer the questions. [[But that's the answer, that's about it. Truth in the eyes of the circle.]] No, that's not the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u292	...and then allows the adoption of children. The news of TVP silenced several hundred thousand...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u293	Please, let's get to the point, Member. Answer to Members' questions. [[Voice from the room: you're breaking the rules.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u294	Your marshal, as a representative of the applicants, I have the right to speak freely.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u295	Yes, to answer questions and to refer to the bill you presented... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And these are the answers. Don't censor the speeches.]] So I'm gonna ask you about the bill, and I'm gonna ask you about the questions. [[It hurts, doesn't it? Does the truth hurt?]] [[Shh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u296	Marshal, I answer questions all the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u297	That's not the answer to the questions. [[We're satisfied.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: We want answers to questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u298	We've received a sentimental picture of a gay couple with their fondly intertwined hands... [[Voice from the hall: But we're not interested, answer specific questions.]] ...and we learned that all over the world, including the conservative Great Britain, are legalizing same-sex relationships and then allowing children to be adopted. The news of TVP silenced several hundred thousand protests in the defense of a traditional family and marriage in Paris... [[And they put gays in jail. It's gonna be this democracy.]] ...and showed the manifestation of homosexuals and informed them of the positive decision of the French Parliament. Mr Krystyna Pawłowicz's arguments against the legal privileges of homosexual relationships have not been cited, and she herself is presented in cabaret form by the author of mocking felietons. After the vote in the Sejm we learned about the negative, and how, the reactions of the Western press to the backwards of the worldview of our country: Poland still in the East - so it was titled. The problem is very important because of the future of the institution of marriage, and it has been brought into conflict in the bosom of the governing party. After the vote, we were not presented with any person, no representative of the church, no organisation, no ordinary citizen who was satisfied with the decision of Members, and there were so many.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u299	Member of the Commission, once again on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm... [[Content.]] I ask that you answer the questions of Members of Parliament, who were very much involved, and refer to the bill... [[These are the answers. These are the answers...]] [[These aren't answers. Where's the vacathio legis?]] ...which you represented to the provisions of the Act on the appointment of new members of the television board. Please, ma'am, I'm bringing things up for the first time. [[But to be honest, this is the promotion of a weekly we don't support.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u300	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'm continuing to answer the questions. In January this year, Law and Justice organized 15 press conferences in the Seym, none of which became the topic presented in the news... [[Maybe they weren't interesting.]] [[Listen up!]] ...and only some were intertwined in a few seconds of snapshots on the margin of other described cases. [[Yes, sir, only Father Rydzyk will.]] [[Listen, listen, maybe you'll get smart.]] Topics of genetically modified food, mothers of the first quarter, apartments, digital multiplex competition, a project to limit the acquisition of agricultural land by foreigners... [[It's a shame to listen in the Seym, that's the kind of nonsense he's telling.]] ...caused by the Law and Justice did not appear either at all, or... [[About, did you listen to the questions?]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Please answer the questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u301	Madame, I am so sorry. This is the second time I've brought you up to speed. I'm picking up your voice. [[We have freedom of speech in this way, ladies and gentlemen, in the Seym.]] [[Applause]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice chant: Freedom of speech! Freedom of speech! Freedom of speech!]] [[Shame on you.]] I'm declaring a time-out. 16. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 58 hours 16 min 23]] I'm reopening the session. The Group of Members submitted a draft resolution on the celebration of the 97th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising. The project is print number 165. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: a draft resolution on the celebration of the 97th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising (print No 165). Ladies and gentlemen, please rise from your places. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the resolution. The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 97th anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising. The winning armed break of independence of Wielkopolska is a proud and long underestimated card of the history of the Polish Nation. The Wielkopolska Uprising decided on the shape of the Second Republic, and the Wielkopolskas brought, after more than 120 years of captivity, the desired freedom. The fight, in which more than 2,000 people were killed and several thousand were injured, was an example of the great solidarity and excellent organization of all the inhabitants of Wielkopolska. At the end of the fights, the Wielkopolska Army had 130 thousand soldiers who supported the Silesian Uprising after the Uprising and had a significant part in the Polish-Bolshevik War. The Greater Poland Insurrection is a cause for pride and an important lesson in patriotism. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the 97th anniversary of the outbreak of the Wielkopolska Uprising reminds of the courage and dedication of the Wielkopolska Insurgents, appreciating their importance in Polish history. The Greatpolan's joint struggle for freedom and independence, and the work of making the best of the opportunities that have won, are worthy of commemoration. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I understand that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 97th anniversary of the outbreak of the Greater Poland Uprising. Formal proposals have been made by the Members. Mr Mariusz Witczak, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 3 point 6 I would like to ask the marshal to refer the draft law on changes in civil service to the committee because the formalities have not been completed and the procedure has been broken. First of all, you have not taken an opinion from trade unions about the changes in this law, and so is the Trade Union Act, so that such an opinion, Mr. Marshal, is taken. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Silesia.]] I am surprised because the state, it seems, has always had great respect for trade unions and the opinion of trade unions, for example, connected with employment. All the more so because you are introducing such solutions that will lead to mass layoffs within the civil service, within the civil service corps. Secondly, Mr Marshal, the civil service law currently in operation has been broken, because it clearly states that all changes, all issues related to changes in civil service must be consulted and must be based on the opinion of the Civil Service Council. I would like to remind you that the Civil Service Council is still in operation, is an advisory body with the President of the Council of Ministers and should, in accordance with the law, comment on any act concerning civil service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u303	Please. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club - also with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u304	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My formal conclusion will be about the threat of a beating that was directed to me from the PiS benches. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] It's not funny. [[Voice from the room: Very funny.]] Just before I spoke, I was summing up an MP who was interfering with my colleague's speech. He reacted with aggression. To stop it, I said, "If it goes on like this, you're gonna hit. He replied, "Just so you know, you'll be the first... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ... Remember me, you'll get it from me. [[Hero now! Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Name!]] Mr. Marshal, I've addressed the envoy... [[Voice from the Chamber: What is the name of the Member?]] ...to introduce himself because I want to quote him. He introduced himself: Mr Andrzej Kalet, Member of the Kalisz Land. Mr President, before you bring justice in this form, I am making a formal request for a meeting of the Senior Convention, which will reduce the aggression in the ranks of the PiS Parliamentary benches... [[Voice from the room: Take care of Rutnicki.]] ...and at the same time there will be a moment of reflection before it really will be as Mr Andrzej Kalet said. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Piotr Kaleta.]] [[Voice from the room: Squeaky.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u305	Thank you. There's an MP's voice... [[Voice from the room: In corrigendum mode.]] Wait a minute. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform, has the floor - a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u306	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a formal request to move to the agenda immediately and continue the debate on the media law. This debate is not yet over. At the same time, I wanted to ask your marshal to return the Bubble Member who spoke on behalf of the applicants... [[Voice from the room: Mrs Kidawa-Błońska!]] ...he drew her attention so that instead of reading the TV show, she would answer questions from the opposition... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] ...because she's been limited so far... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] ...only for giving... [[Voice from the room: You're lying again.]] ...some uncreated stories and some uncreated stories from the past, and today we are talking about the future and talking about the future of public media in Poland. And I call on you to answer these questions in this debate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u307	Please. Mr Kalet. In what mode, sir? [[Correct, Marshal.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no correction.]] [[The Member did not speak, so he cannot straighten up.]] With a formal application, you can. [[My name has been spoken.]] Well, that's fine, but I'll take it as a formal application. [[Voice from the Chamber: What do you think you misunderstood?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u308	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo... [[Speaking from the O.R.: You didn't speak.]] My name came up, which is why I have to refer to it. [[But the formal conclusions were.]] [[Formal conclusion.]] My esteemed previous speaker asked me to say his name, so I would like to explain. Ladies and gentlemen, what a wonderful time, as it turns out, was medieval. We know this only from literature, but it is often worth reaching out to. Well, ladies and gentlemen, if these allegations were unfounded, unpleasant, unplaced... [[Voice from the room: How did you behave?]] ...but also charges when I stood up for women, [[Applause]] which were insulted by you here... [[Yes, sir.]] ...I would simply challenge you, sir, to a hardened land. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'd draw our swords and see who's right. But that's what you do when you're dealing with a real man. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] Talking about you being a real man, [[Applause]] He insults real men. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u309	High Seym! Both proposals submitted: Mr Richard Wilczynski and Mr Kalety are appropriate, and I encourage you to refer the matter to the ethics committee or to refer to this in the parliamentary statements which are made at each meeting each day at the last point of the session of the Sejm. Those weren't formal conclusions. The formal proposals were: the formal proposal by Mr Mariusz Witczak from the Civic Platform Club to refer the bill to the committee, and the request by Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, I will be right back to him, because I intended to do exactly what you said in your speech. As there is a formal request for a reference to the committee of the draft law amending the Civil Service Act, we proceed to the vote. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the bill amending the Civil Service Act to be sent back to the committee, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 412 Members voted. There were 179 votes against, 229 abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We continue to consider item 10 on the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law amending the Act on Radio and Television. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Formal conclusion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u310	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like a five-minute break for the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u311	There you go. For the Kukiz Club15, I'm announcing a five-minute break. [[Thank you.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 34 hrs. 16 min 41]] I'm reopening the session. Let me remind you that we are continuing to consider item 10 of the agenda. The discussion is closed. Since, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was submitted to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm refer the draft law back to the committee for consideration, the preparation of the report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. President Richard Terlecki, Law and Justice, please. I take it there's an objection, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u312	Mr. Marshal! I propose that we proceed to the vote after the amendments have been served, without referring to the committee. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u313	Thank you. In that case, we shall vote against this objection, this request by the Member. We are voting on the proposal made by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of entering the third reading of the bill after delivering the set of amendments, will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the hall: What bill?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 235 Members have voted against - 187 Members and 3 Members have abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the proposal and we will therefore proceed to the vote after the table of amendments has been sent, which is the end of the vote. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 143-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and certain other laws. The Sejm at its meeting on 29 December, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 143 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, following the examination of the proposal and amendments at its meetings on 29 and 30 December, brings the following proposal and amendments to the High Sejm:... As regards the proposal to reject the proposal in its entirety, the committee recommends rejecting the proposal. The Commission also accepted amendments 1, 3, 8, 14, 15, 19, 22, 26 and 30 and amendment 25. The Commission has also adopted the entire draft law. The remaining amendments were rejected by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u315	There you go. Thank you, sir. As I understand it, the committee is asking for the adoption of the draft Law No 143. The Commission also presents a minority proposal and, in an additional report, a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety and amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. I will now put to the vote the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety, as put forward in the discussion. The Commission requests that this request be rejected. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. Members of the House have come forward with questions. Mr. Marek Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club. Time-- one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u316	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The amendment of the Civil Service Act prepared by the PiS consists in the release of 1600 of the most experienced civil servants and employment in place of people without experience and without the necessary qualifications. The introduction of this law will certainly lead to a deterioration in the work of the administration, but also to a deterioration in the service of citizens in offices. Madam Prime Minister, for this project, although it is a parliamentary project, the government has prepared a position, which means that the Prime Minister accepts these changes proposed by the Law and Justice Club. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister who put you up to this, because the reduction in the quality of administration's work will actually first impact on your reforms, so that your reforms, which will be voted on in the High House, will not be as effective as you would like to be implemented. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So even if you don't answer my question, remember that name well...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u317	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u318	...and remember who it was... [[Applause]] [[Mr Marek Wójcik speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u319	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u320	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! There is such a beautiful proverb, which is characterized by quite well the effects of the adoption of this law. Well, the fish, ladies and gentlemen, is spoiled from the head. Here's how it goes down: the elimination of competitions for the highest positions in the administration, admission to these positions of persons who have violated the discipline of public finances, the relaxation of the requirements of their experience with the Head of Civil Service, in principle the elimination of requirements concerning the apoliticality of the Head of Civil Service, the elimination of requirements regarding the experience of the Deputy Head of Civil Service and a few more positions... not a few thousand other posts in this service. All the above effects will follow this law, which you are pushing through the Sejm, and all these changes will lead to the fact that civil service in Poland will simply be inefficient - instead of working for citizens, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's gonna be all the time. It's getting worse and worse. Therefore, the Modern supports the proposal to reject this project in its entirety. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u321	Thank you. Mr Maciej Małecki, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u322	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a brief question for the applicants. Will this new law, or will this amendment eliminate the pathologies to which 8-year-old Platform and PSL governments have led in civil service? [[Applause]] Examples: The head of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways for 6 years was the man you avoided civil service requirements, 6 years acting as director in the most sensitive years when we built highways. How you built, how they were. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] irregularities, alone... [[Voice from the room: Nothing happened.]] ...you know best. Second thing. Former Deputy Minister... [[It wasn't.]] ...Digitisation gets a warm job in the office of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, counsel in the office of the President, except that earlier these ladies together beat the records of exotic travel at the expense of the taxpayer: Burkina Faso, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bahrain, Sri Lanka, Mexico City. This is not a travel agency offer - in these places... [[They were checking the signal.]] ...these ladies were supposedly finding the interests of Polish digitalization. And last but not least...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u323	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u324	...your colleague, your activist from Minsk Mazowiecki - treasurer of the Platform you made Deputy Chief of the Tax Office. [[Oh, dear!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u325	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u326	Question for applicants. Will this law eliminate the pathologies to which the governments of the Platform and the Polish People's Party have led? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u327	Thank you. [[Bravo!]] Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u328	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! Mr. President, I almost believed we were gonna make a good law... [[Calm down.]] ...because I applied to you as a manager and I meant above all this experience, competence, building really experienced staff, and that's the public service, but in this bill we're just ruining it. What happened on the committee was all absurd, because this is déjà vu of December 17, when we started proceding the bill, so there is really an up-to-date speech about the first project. But now I'm applying to the Prime Minister as a civil servant. Prime Minister, there is a possibility that within 30 days the contracts will expire to 1600 people if they do not offer their working conditions or do not accept them. I would now like the Prime Minister to have such assurance that women will be protected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pregnant because it's the expiry that doesn't guarantee protection for pregnant women. I ask for such a declaration, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u329	Thank you. Minister Beata Kempa requests the floor. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u330	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer your questions, I would like to make one point clear and clear. Yes, this bill will end, I think, 100%, the pathology we were dealing with in the years 2007 to 2015. It's an undeniable fact. I hope this happens very quickly. [[Applause]] It will be possible to immediately recall any person on whom the fact or even suspicion that such pathology has been encountered, and it will be the prerogative of every chief. I want to dismiss all these allegations that have been made here, that, as of the date of the entry into force of the law, 1600 civil servants will immediately be wiped out of the ground. Once again, I encourage reading with understanding and a more difficult thing, that is to say, to interpret the rules of law, but I think that someone with a large parliamentary period should have no difficulty with this. This law does not work automatically, Madam President, I think it is obvious. And if we are dealing with an appointed official, he must be offered a place of employment in the civil service. So if you're talking about firing pregnant women, about this type of case, you're wrong and you're not reading the bill well enough. As regards the qualifications mentioned earlier, I would like to make it clear and clear that the qualifications are set out very clearly in the pragmatic laws. This requires a little more effort, because you also need to know these pragmatic laws - I will remind you, for example, the law related to the Veterinary Inspection, with the State Sanitary Inspection, the entire Treasury, i.e. tax control law, etc., etc. But I understand you don't want to read it anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u331	We proceed with the vote on the proposal. [[In corrigendum mode. In correction mode, Mr. Marshal.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 187 Members voted against - 230 and five Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In Amendment 1, applicants propose to give the title of the Act a different wording. Amendments 3, 8, 14, 15, 19 to 22 and 26 to 30 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. The questions have been raised by the Members. Maria Margaret Janyska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants: Why do you not want the civilian corps to be managed by efficient, professional and apolitical people? [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: From the platform.]] The amendments, which are presented at this point and also in further parts of the draft law, clearly indicate this. Ladies and gentlemen, what you're proposing is a civil service purgatory. The Minister has just made this clear because she said that even on the basis of suspicion labour relations will be dissolved. It's kind of a new, interesting category in labour law that's connected with these things. [[Voice from the room: Oh...]] Ladies and gentlemen, this law should have a title: work for its own. And you can probably be understood by considering that this is how you do it, you don't require competence, because probably your candidates don't meet those high, good, professional rules that have been written down so far in the bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today's gag day in the Sejm, you're already gagging the media... [[The voice from the room:]] ...you also gag public administration, civil service.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u333	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u334	Is this a game of governance, playing like a kid with a new toy, or is that authoritarianism? I think it's the other one. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u335	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u336	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We have failed to reach a common position, even though we have tried to follow the suggestion made by the Prime Minister, the President, to talk, discuss and seek the best solutions. All the amendments that were previously made in committee were rejected at the same time. We got word that last night the government took its stand. Because there were questions for Prime Minister Gowin, why he didn't speak, why he didn't say anything, I wanted to give you the opportunity to speak. My question to you is, have you read the amendments we have made? And are you able to say to all those who lose their jobs within 30 days, yes, I'm definitely in favour of that? You're welcome. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u337	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 3, 8, 14, 15, 19 to 22 and 26 to 30 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 232 Members voted against - 194, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. Amendments 2 to 24 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Civil Service Act. In Amendment 2, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. Point 3 (3). The consequence of the adoption of this amendment will be the deletion in Article. 1 points 10 to 15, 19 to 21 and 24. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform Club, asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u338	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Act introduces a new category of posts, higher positions in civil service. Why? What is the purpose of this new category of posts? Not higher qualifications, not higher expectations than those who are to take up these positions, but a reduction in qualifications, a photo of the condition of the competition, a photo of even the condition of conducting the preparatory service ending in the exam. Such a change also causes - perhaps this is the reason that you are in such a hurry with this law - that by law still on New Year's Eve work could lose 1600 people. Are you aware of the consequences of the adoption of a law not previously consulted with trade unions? Every labour court in Poland will grant compensation to these people or restore them to work. Who's gonna pay those damages? Who's gonna pay the interest? Unfortunately, not Members of the applicant, because he can [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then you would remember how to write the laws correctly, and you wouldn't force the Sejm to accept the books. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u339	The committee rapporteur, Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u340	I wanted to explain one essential thing in answer to your question. Well, this amendment absolutely does not involve redundancies at any point, all the more so mass redundancies. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He, he, he.]] Please read the bill and do not mislead the High House. Secondly, there is not a single point in this law that talks about lowering the standards of requirements for candidates. There is one difference: indeed, these requirements will not be recorded at the statutory level, but it in no way exempts ministers, the Prime Minister from lowering standards. Please don't mislead the High House. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Sure.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u341	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. The vote was 160 votes against - 231 and 35 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the sole request of a minority, applicants shall propose not to amend Article. 10 and Article 10 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). from 19 to 23 and not repeal Article. 24 Civil Service Act and delete article. 4th draft bill. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 4, 11, 12, 13 and 31 futile. The question was asked by Mrs Anna Paluch, the Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u342	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the POs. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no such mode.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u343	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u344	Please don't limit me, ladies and gentlemen, in the performance of my parliamentary mandate. [[Voice from the room: Rules of Procedure.]] You have no right to do that. [[The marshal says something.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, you're repressing... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] ...you teach us, you moralize us here, you make phillipics in defense of competition proceedings. [[There's no such thing as...]] So I have a question for you: Would you not like to give such a phillip of instruction and reprimand to your friend Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, who with stubbornness is leaving the competition procedure? First example from the shore. Quietly, without the competition, Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz called... [[Voice from the hall: This is self-government work.]] ...the new head of the Bemowski Centre for Culture ART. BEM. He's an experienced clerk at Marcin Jasiński's Capital Cultural Office. His predecessor wiped out the bemian scandal. It would be expected that after this incident, after the long list of irregularities has been revealed, the president will somehow get on the case properly. She's called. [[♪ The bell ♪]] An arrangement, a three-year contract. Ladies and gentlemen, in short... Marshal: Thank you, Member. ...the blade in your neighbor's eye you see... [[Do you know what a self-government is?]] ...and the beams in your own eye don't. Maybe your eyes will get better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u345	Thank you, Member. But I would like to point out to you that the questions should be addressed to the following people: Mrs... [[But you didn't stop.]] ...on behalf of the applicant, Mrs Margaret Wassermann. And you can, for example. Ask her: Is it true that... etc. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I would not like to remind you of... [[Voice from the room: Lepper's model.]] ...who sit in this House many times, as questions should be asked, so I would ask very much to follow the rules of procedure. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[You gotta be kidding me.]] 427 Members voted. 162 Members voted against - 263, with two abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In Amendment 4. to Article. 10 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 3 and 5. Amendments 7, 9 to 11, 13 and 31 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 5 and 12 irrelevant. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. The question was asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u346	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Is it true that...]] According to Minister Kempa, all persons or most of the persons employed in the years 2008 to 2015 are people employed in the atmosphere of pathology, which is a kind of gangrene that you want to effectively amputate this law. We don't agree to that. Ladies and gentlemen, failing to accept this amendment will result in the removal of the call - as was mentioned - by means of an open competitive competition. The PiS will own nearly 2000 executive positions in the government administration in such a way that the back door will introduce officials who have no idea about government management. That proves it... Restrictions on competence, on professional experience. You deprive them of their internship and training. Ladies and gentlemen, my question is this: How do you imagine the management by these mid-level and low-level managers... [[Tall.]] ...who will be selected through competitions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will he improve his knowledge, his skills, his training? It's gonna be fiction. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[He's good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u347	Please. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 4, 7, 9 to 11, 13 and 31 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 163 Members voted against - 231, 35 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In Amendment 5. to Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants propose that the Head of Civil Service appoint and dismiss the President of the Council of Ministers after consulting the Civil Service Council. Amendment 12 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 12 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 195 Members voted against - 231 Members, 3 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In Amendment 6. to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose to maintain the wording of point 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 193 Members voted against - 232, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 16. to Article. 36 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 1 and do not add paragraph. 6a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u348	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. The 36th Act imposes an obligation for persons who are first employed in the civil service to carry out the preparatory service. Law and Justice wants to introduce a provision that exempts people employed in higher positions from this obligation. I have a question for the applicants. Do you really have such a short bench of professionals in PiS that you will have to hire people who are completely unprepared for this in key positions in government administration? Mr. President, I just don't believe it. Vote with us for an amendment of the Civic Platform, which is, as it were, the penultimate plan of rescue, so that this unfortunate recipe can be brought to an end. And I call for this in the name of good governance of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u349	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 195 Members voted against - 229, three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 17. to Article. 53 applicants propose to maintain the wording of points 2, 4 and 5. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 18 irrelevant. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u350	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When one of the members of the PiS said that the government had to rely on people who would identify with government policy, and when we add to that, for example, the removal of requirements from the article. 53 draft law for candidates for positions in the civil service related to the placement of work in management positions, immediately follows the Polish People's Republic's saying: Bierny, mediocre but faithful. By throwing out the requirements, by lowering the criteria, you want to spoil the administration's work. By deleting the competitions, you will not be able to test either the competence or any knowledge. What, then, will be the measure of competence used? The political one? Ladies and gentlemen! In its opinion, the National Council of Legal Councils warns you and makes it clear that you are politicising civil service. Do you want to lead to the fact that the Parliamentary Offices and the Senator's Offices [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members and senators of the Law and Justice will turn into intermediaries? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u351	Thank you, Member. The Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister, Ms Beata Kempa, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u352	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In this, you might say, Christmas time I didn't want to be that upset... [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...but ladies and gentlemen, speaking of politicization, speaking of nepotism and pathology, go ahead. Here's the statistics they've put into stupefying even the Supreme Board of Control and CBA... [[Voice from the room: Stupid?]] ...who've seen a lot in their controls. At 3629 ARiMR employees 1707 employees are repeated names. [[Applause]] And that's what we're going to fight with, too, with this bill. And these are facts that are undeniable. Speaking of what's said here today that we're going to be doing something through the back door, I want to say that this bill is a great example of us not doing anything through the back door. This law opens wide, and this is one of the first deregulation laws, doors for young, very well-educated, very energetic Poles, who today only because these doors are closed, because the system and layout are concrete, build their careers and build the GDP of foreign countries, and not build their dreams in Poland. This bill will enable them to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u353	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 161 Members voted against 266 and 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 18. to Article. 53 applicants propose to maintain the wording of point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 192 Members voted against - 231 and 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 23, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 68 and 69. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. 161 Members voted against - 265, with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 24. to Article. 108. 1 applicants propose to retain the existing introduction to the calculation. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 429 Members voted. 162 Members voted against - 266 Members, with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In Amendment 25, applicants propose to add amendments to the Social Security Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Members have asked questions. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Looks like you're walking like a bulldozer, but without an operator. You cut this bill into pieces and you go... [[The bulldozer doesn't cut.]] ...so quickly that you don't even notice that you're going beyond the scope of the amendment. You have introduced here proposals that the President of the Social Security Office should also be included in this resolution by means of a vocation, despite the fact that today the committee clearly opposes it. Well, of course you did. [[Right, right.]] ...the committee's vote for nothing, but it was particularly interesting that we not only pointed out as Members of the opposition, but also to the Legislative Office. Quite frankly, ladies and gentlemen, you've gotten ahead of yourselves. This scope goes beyond this resolution, beyond this draft law. What happened that you didn't want to amend the Social Security Act, but you want to force this law to change the way the president of the Social Security Office chooses? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u355	The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u356	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this amendment was pointed out by the Legislative Office as going beyond the scope of legislation. I don't really agree with that, because this amendment is about what this whole project is all about, which is a colleague's stool. This time it is the seat of the President of the Social Insurance Institution, which has so far been appointed by the President of the Council of Ministers from among those selected by means of open and competitive recruitment. This possibility in this record you are eliminating, you are leading to this, according to further points, that this person will not have to know at all what the Social Insurance Institution is doing. This is some kind of psychic. [[That's not true.]] I do not know who you want to fill on these stools, while this is really a degrengolad of the institutions of our democratic state. I therefore call for this amendment to be rejected. And I have a question about who you want. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on this stool to cast that so low the requirements of this person. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u357	Thank you very much. I would encourage your fellow Members to... Instead of using terms like a colleague's stool, you can say... [[Chair.]] ...high position in the central government body. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And we're in a completely different category right now. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Marshal, how do you live?]] 427 Members voted. There were 233 Members voted against - 191 and three Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In Amendment 32, applicants propose that the law should enter into force 3 months after the date of publication. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The question was raised by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u358	Mr. Marshal! Is it true that the term vacatio legis is not right to be in the PiS mind system? [[Applause]] Why did we ask for them, Marshal, the applicant? So that these inexperienced politicians, who have just taken over their offices, have time to meet those people who are being released by law. Time would work for both. That's what we asked for. Why do you want to give it up? What's the rush? It was a rational, good adjustment. And in this way, ladies and gentlemen, through this law in Poland will live the spirit of the Tsar's execution of Peter the Great of 1708. [[Here we go again.]] I quote: The subordinate in front of the superior is to have the appearance of a miserable and stupid, so that knowledge of things does not spoil it. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u359	Thank you, sir, but I find the question pointless. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 428 Members voted. 162 Members voted against - 264, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Members have asked questions. Mr Mariusz Witczak, Civic Platform Club. [[He's got new pants.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u360	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the applicants if they read the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 In accordance with the Constitution, the civil service corps operates to ensure the professional, reliable, impartial and politically neutral performance of the State's tasks in government offices. Your bill, of course, has nothing to do with the spirit of constitutional writing, is in some sense a parody of this idea, which was included in the Constitution. Minister Kempy's translations are simply ridiculous that this bill will be open to anyone outside of the PiS. This is a bill, ladies and gentlemen, which should be called TKM. It seems, Mr. President, that you and Mr. Marshal Kuchcinski have introduced this deadline... [[Voice from the hall: Old as the world.]] ...to the language of politics. [[Bitches, bunches.]] I hope that the marshal will not be developing this shortcut here at today's sitting. [[Go ahead, go ahead.]] He is well known to all. But the truth is, the state in the election campaign was law and justice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And now you're just TKM. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u361	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not offend other political environments in this way. Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[And how twisted...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u362	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! We're trying to make a case. This bill... Maybe it's different. Minister, Prime Minister, a pregnant woman is protected in accordance with the Labour Code. According to the Labour Code, she must not change working conditions and wages. On the other hand, in the light of this law, her employment relationship expires if she does not accept new working conditions or if they are not proposed. I just want a declaration that no pregnant woman, no person on parental leave, no fatherly, maternity leave under this law will lose his job. I want this guarantee simply for Poles and Poles, and I understand that I will receive it. And if not, I appeal that every Polish woman and every Pole who loses their job in administration under this law [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government... [[Voice from the hall: Pregnant Pole?]] ...or another, but according to this rift, they volunteered to me because then I'll have arguments that after all...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u363	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u364	...this bill is incompatible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u365	Thank you. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u366	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's a sad day for civil servants. The novel marks the end of competitive recruitment for civil service, and the end of free access for citizens to civil service. It is thus incompatible to an obvious extent with Article. 153 constitutions. Ladies and gentlemen, after several years of training, recruitment, selection has been able to build largely a professional civilian service, which is comparable to similar organisations operating in the private sector or in other countries. Please note that offices cannot compete with the private sector [[♪ The bell ♪]] wages, because they will always be lower there than in the private sector. They have to compete with stabilization, they have to compete with the real path of development. You're denying...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u367	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u368	...the civil service of such...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u369	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u370	...the path of development. What's left of it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u371	The question is asked by Tadeusz Dziuba, Law and Justice. You're not here... [[There it is.]] You're here.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u372	I ask the applicant's representative a question. Madam President, will you confirm that the proposed legislation will abolish the fiction of the competitive employment in the civil service, which is celebrated, among other things, by the system. by entrusting responsibilities. Let me just give you two examples. quite recently 4 of the 16 regional directors of the National Health Fund were employed in this mode, still in September about 16% the heads of the tax offices in this mode were employed. It wasn't until just before the election that the competitions were announced. So, do the proposed rules abolish this fiction? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u373	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] The Members and the Minister have come forward to answer these questions. I am the first to ask Mrs Małgorzata Wassermann, representative of the applicants. Unless you want a different order, but by nature, the applicant... [[Maybe you'll be the Minister first.]] ...should answer first. [[Okay, of course.]] Well, by nature, according to formal order...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u374	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have answered your questions about the proposed law many times. I've explained to you all the points one by one, what comes from them. Well, ladies and gentlemen, issue one. I repeat, for the time being, I do not know which, as a result of this amendment, there will be no mass layoffs. Most of the people who are employed in higher positions in the civil service are appointed officials and, as a result of possible cancellation - or not - of the executive position, they will in no way have a disbanded employment relationship resulting from the appointment. That's line one. Second thing. Ladies and gentlemen, you are still trying to scare the public that this amendment will result in massive redundancies. Can I have a little water? Here I would read the opinion of Prof. Maria Gintowt-Jankowicz, who said very clearly: As regards the scope of the issues covered by the 2008 Act, the majority of the amendment does not change anything. The project does not make any changes, and I stress that, in parts, the chapters of the law in force, which constitute appropriate business pragmatism, i.e. in regulations of fundamental importance for persons employed on the basis of it. I'm still reading. [[You can quote the whole thing.]] Unchanged issues remain as important to the civilian service as, among others, the requirements to be met by the applicant for appointment in the civil service. The examination of the proposed amendments and the provisions of the law in force therefore leads to the conclusion that, in the legal situation of those civil servants and servants who do not occupy the higher positions covered by the law in force, the adoption of the project assessed will not change anything. From this part of the analysis, there is a clear conclusion: the claim that the draft amendment removes civil service as a service pragmatics contained in the 2008 Act is not true. It misleads not only thousands of interested workers, but also wider public opinion and, as such, has the characteristics of abuse. [[Applause]] [[Keep reading, all of it.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You asked here, among others. The question is, did you ask if we have such a short bench that we are eliminating the requirement of a certain internship in the government administration? Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we leave a whole range of requirements for those who will apply for these higher positions in the civil service, and I must tell you... Speaking of short benches, I'll quote... There are thousands of examples, unfortunately thousands, but I'll give you the first one in a row. I'm sure you all remember a certain contest for the person who was supposed to run the Social Insurance Institution. You remember when Mr. Zbigniew Derdziuk resigned, the competition was held, and Dr. Katarzyna Kalata applied for this position. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Katarzyna Kalata has had 7 years of experience at work in matters handled in the ZUS, she wrote a 400-page PhD on ZUS, unlike her predecessor, who was president and official, manager in other state institutions and never had anything to do with ZUS. As you all remember, and the whole public opinion, Mrs Kalata, even though she passed this competition, has never received this position. [[You will now appoint her without a competition.]] There was a question here and a charge against us that the bill does not have a vacathio legis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from our data that in the last term, at least 400 very important laws have been passed for the state in which you, as the governing coalition of that time, have not seen the need to introduce vacathio legis. [[Applause]] These were as important laws as the Civil Code, as the Penal Code, educational laws, agricultural laws. I must say, you didn't see such a problem at the time and you didn't press charges like that. Next question, I'll answer. Such a question was raised in connection with these examples, which were cited here, regarding the fact that in some offices, e.g. in tax chambers, the majority of the directors of the chambers are persons performing duties, persons not appointed in competitions. In view of the above, may I ask a rhetorical question: Was the competence of the state of the candidates for the heads of chambers so small that the state was afraid to distribute these competitions and kept these people simply for years as performing their duties? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me quote one more conversation that is known to a large part of the public. This is a conversation recorded between the head of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Mr Jan Bury from PSL, and I quote, "You get yourself a candidate for Vice-Director," said NIK President to Jan Bury. The competition was won by Bure's former assistant, and PSL politician texted Kwiatkowski: Mr President, as they report, the task is done. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Ladies and gentlemen! According to the D.A.'s office, Bury wanted to put his candidate in the competition, but he missed his deadline to report. Kwiatkowski two days before he was elected President of NIK was supposed to assure Bure that he would take action to prevent this competition from coming to an end. Kwiatkowski's meeting with a Mr. Jezierski. After the meeting he calls Bury and says: I just got out of a conversation where I said that I hope that tomorrow there will be three good decisions - the cancellation of the competition for the director in Rzeszów, the vice principal and the director in Warsaw. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] [[Professional civilian service.]] As Minister Beata Kempa has said in our government, the rule of law and justice will not allow any competitions to be treated in this way. We speak in a very clear and honest way. [[What, amusing?]] [[Because there's not gonna be any competitions.]] Two lines. When it comes to higher positions in civil service, we want competent people to be admitted to these positions, people who have experience not only in government administration, but also in them, people who will manage individual departments efficiently. Ladies and gentlemen! Tell me why you think that. A person like the President of the Stock Exchange can't handle it as director of the department, where she'll have 15 people underneath her? Why do you think it's better than an official who's already had a seven-year internship in a government administration? [[The voice from the hall: Then let it win.]] Why do you think he can't handle a department like this? a person who manages a private 1000-person company? We want to influence this administration to operate smoothly... [[She was our...]] ...specifically, factually. To end this fiction and the pathology you've tolerated for eight years. [[They're their own.]] [[Voice from the hall: You're doing for your own.]] At the same time, I would like to explain to you once again the record that speaks of this... Remember, we have three categories: civil servants, civil servants and seniors. As a result of this amendment, we will in no way deprive workers of the first category, i.e. persons on employment contracts, or appointed officials. We will only have the flexibility to move these people as far as these higher positions are concerned, possibly to appoint them outside the civil service corps. As far as I'm concerned... I'll see if there's any more questions I haven't answered. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a charge here that we are removing the ban on a five-year period of political party membership for the Head of Civil Service and the Deputy Head of Civil Service and that this is a politicisation of this service. Ladies and gentlemen, according to us, this is a provision that is not in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitution is based on the right of association and the constitution explicitly refers to the highest officials in Poland as regards this matter - art. 178 Constitution: the judge may not belong to a political party; Article. 195: Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal may not belong to a political party during the period of office; Article. 205: President of NIK; Art. 209: Ombudsman. Please say: What is the reason for the civil servant to require an additional five-year period back? [[Applause]] This is, in our opinion, a statutory provision that really violates the constitutional rights of a person who wishes to apply for this position. It is natural that, of course, during the term of office, this person cannot belong to a political party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u375	There you go. The rapporteur of the committee will allow me now to ask Minister Beata Kempa to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u376	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wish to apologize on behalf of our government to all pregnant women, all those who perform these functions today, and I wish to assure on behalf of our government that the Labour Code is in operation and we intend to apply this code that protects women at work. [[Applause]] These are the rules that will guarantee these women that their peace will not be disturbed. And I would like to apologize, as a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, that anyone pregnant in our country is threatening at all. [[Applause]] That's the first line. [[Shame.]] Second line. Mr Marshal, Prime Minister, High Izbo, here has been accused by Mr Gryglas that, now, under the new law, there will be no free access for citizens to civil service. Let me remind you that we have a National School of Public Administration. This school organizes recruitment, is free recruitment and you can decide to start your studies at such school, as well as join the civil service. Today we have about 120,000. Staff and civil servants and absolutely this law does not take away free access to the civil service from citizens. The last answer, to a certain doubt from one of the Members who said that this law is, according to him, proof of the current policy, the so-called. TKM policy. I don't know what this Member means by that... [[I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.]] ...and if I can guess what he understands, I'm not allowed to use uncensored words as a member of the Constitutional Council of Ministers. So what I'm saying is that according to this bill and the new order that will prevail, TKM means to us: Now it's the Young people's turn. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I will add: on those who never had a back, they never had friends in PSL, the Civic Platform and other parties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u377	Thank you. Would the rapporteur of the committee like to speak? [[Why?]] Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, rapporteur for the committee. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u378	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Most of the doubts have already been clarified by Małgorzata Wassermann and by the Minister. I think that the questions that Mr Grabiec and Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska have asked are due to misunderstanding and misunderstanding of this amendment. Well, the argument on the Board of Administration and Home Affairs was that you thought, i.e. The opposition believed that everything had to be included in the bill, that everything had to be so over-regulated in our laws that it practically prevented the functioning of the state administration. I myself, ladies and gentlemen, have already had a chance to work in the Committee on European Union Affairs and you recall that at some point this happened, unless last year we had a project saying that here in the Treasury companies should be 50 men and women. Fortunately, there has not been such a deep regulation in the laws. As you may remember, I was also in favour of the solution... After all, there are a much larger number of very well-prepared and educated people among the ladies and it would be completely stupid. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, this law does not regulate these proposals, those arguments that you have raised. Once again, I would like to conclude by saying: Mr Grabiec, the civil service corps remains, all the other provisions on labour relations remain. It does not appear from this law that disabled persons, pregnant persons will be fired from work. It regulates completely different laws and there is no need for such special laws to regulate the employment rules in higher positions so deeply. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u379	There you go. The formal request was made by Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club. [[Do they understand what they have written?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u380	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The formal conclusion is a little out of date, [[Joy in the Chamber]] But just by watching the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u381	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the formal proposal...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u382	I'll put it down. I wanted to file a formal motion for a five-minute break so Minister Ziobro could finish the phone call. [[Oh, dear!]] Since the Minister is unfortunately not interested in our deliberations at all, and this is not the first time, but in a permanent way... [[How do you know?]] ...I have a request that he can put a pay phone over there so we don't have to interrupt...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u383	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u384	...in conversations. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: He flashed!]] [[The voice from the hall: Stupidity knows no bounds.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u385	I do not believe that this is a serious formal proposal, sir. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Oh, that's serious. I'm serious.]] On the other hand, to Mrs Angelica Możjanovska... The Member has come forward as corrected, but it has not been said... [[It was!]] [[Voice from the room: ex!]] Madam, your name wasn't... [[Formal conclusion.]] A formal conclusion? Here you are, Mrs Andzelika Możjanowska, a formal proposal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: It was not mentioned.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u386	I was mentioned. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: She was, was.]] I was mentioned, and by the lady who's the applicant...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u387	Well, I'm sorry, I missed that moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u388	...and by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u389	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u390	I was mentioned, so please let me answer. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There is a fundamental difference between a declaration that protects, under which the Labour Code protects pregnant women and the expiry, which is in this law, ladies and gentlemen. I know it's written down, and it's hard to defend it now, but thank you very much for this declaration, because this declaration is enough for me that no pregnant woman, no pregnant Polish woman, no person on parental, father and maternity leave under this law will be fired. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u391	Thank you very much. I understand that this is a correction of the misunderstood expression of the Member. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 143, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 233 Members voted against - 190, and no one abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a law amending the Civil Service Act and some other laws. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Police Act and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Special Services for consideration. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, but in what way? [[Voice from the room: He doesn't know.]] Question is, is it a formal motion? [[Question.]] Question. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u392	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The question to Minister Wąsik, for the third time, three times, until the end. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 20c you enter into the Polish Trojan Internet, such a Trojan horse. And I'm not talking about a wooden horse, Mr. President, but I'm talking about software... [[Oh...]] ...a system for obtaining user data. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] You want to push full access to the data of every Internet user, such a comfortable surveillance for service officers, so that without court, they can obtain information about Polish Internet users 24 hours a day. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Lying.]] For the third time, I'm asking the Minister if it's an art. 20c of this law in conjunction with Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Act on the provision of services by electronic means will allow special services and police officers to collect all data on the activity of Polish Internet users, including the history of searches, interests, [[♪ The bell ♪]] visited pages and correspondence via Facebook. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u393	Please. The question was raised by Mr Paweł Chezernaker, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u394	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking the advice of your marshal, I would like to ask the applicant: Is it true that it was the Platform Government and PSL that pushed ACTA against Internet users, and the armed officers of the Homeland Security Office entered in at hours. 6:00 a.m. to the satirical site owner's apartment and they impounded his computer? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: True. Right.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You're scaring Internet surveillance and it's an opposition propaganda procedure. A week ago, the opposition threatened with surveillance in connection with the anti-terrorist act, whose project is not yet in place, today you are threatening Poles with another act. You lost the election online and you're trying to scare the Internet because you have no idea how to get online. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[What's this? Is that a question?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Get on with your honest work... [[Voice from the O.R.:]] ...and don't do propaganda. You mislead public opinion and scare Poles. [[Isn't it an honest job to hold a ticket? Isn't it fair?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Fortunately, the Internet has a thing for itself, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think he's got a great sense of bullshit. [[Exactly.]] And what you're doing today is bullshit. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u395	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Science and Higher Education, Mr Jarosław Gowin, asked for the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u396	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I was the only minister in the government of Donald Tusk who voted against the ACTA agreement. [[The voice from the hall: dude, dude.]] What I'm trying to say is that I'm very allergic to freedom on the Internet. I do not see any threat in this project, but I would like to inform Mr Brieza and the High House that there will be a public consultation on Monday at the Ministry of Digital Affairs with representatives of the environments involved in the issue of freedom of expression, privacy of opinion and freedom of the Internet. Minister Streżyńska will take part in this consultation organised by Mrs Streżyńska, among others. a representative of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and I. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u397	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. [[And the minister?]] [[What about the mustache? The mustache wanted to speak.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 154 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 193 Members voted against - 230 and three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Special Services for consideration. [[Voice from the Chamber: And the committee meeting when? Today?]] At the moment, Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, submitted a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u398	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to formally request that the draft law amending the Law on Police and some other laws also be referred to the Committee on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, because in its area it is involved in matters related to the work of the committee and examined by the committee, i.e. concerning telecommunications and the Internet, so that I kindly ask you to address this committee as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u399	Mr President, we have resolved this matter so that I am very sorry. If you had reported this earlier, we could have considered it. [[Yesterday.]] We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law amending the Act on Radio and Television. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill. The Sejm has decided to join the third reading of this draft after the text of the amendments has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. Amendment 3 was withdrawn by the applicants. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: But where are the amendments?]] The committees are bringing in... [[But where are these corrections?]] ...on the adoption of the draft law on printing no. 161. The Commission shall also present proposals from minorities. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. [[Where are the corrections?]] Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr Sławomir Neumann. [[There are no corrections.]] In what mode, sir? [[It's a rule book.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u400	Mr. Marshal! I would ask for a break for the Platform Club so that we can get to know these amendments, including the voting order. It comes to some absurdities. We've received these corrections, I understand, now somewhere on the e-mails to read them. If we had a few minutes of time, Mr. Marshal... [[That's enough.]] Because there's a rather curiosity situation that's happening right now. [[We don't have any corrections.]] We're supposed to vote on something we don't even have delivered. Gentlemen and ladies of the Law and Justice, you're about to go to the media. I think you're gonna last another half an hour. I'd like a half-hour break for the Platform, for the Platform Club, so we can review the changes. Half an hour later, your president's gonna be on TV. You're gonna make it. [[Applause]] [[Calm down, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u401	I haven't heard the last remark, Mr President. [[Joy in the Chamber]] On the other hand, I inform you Members that for some time now, for several dozen minutes, you have... [[But we're voting here!]] ...on tablets... [[But we're voting on it!]] ...corrections. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The Members have amendments on their tablets. The decision to provide information in the previous term of office of the Sejm was taken by a majority. I personally was not in favour of informing Members of this kind, but I manage a half-hour break. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 50 hrs 18 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 10 on the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury and the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft law amending the Act on Radio and Television. Amendments were tabled during the second reading of the bill. The Sejm has decided to join the third reading of this draft after the text of the amendments has been delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. Amendment 3 has been withdrawn by the applicants. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no 161. The Commission shall also present proposals from minorities. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The question has been asked by the Members. Mr. Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Club. [[Voice from the O.R.: There's no one, come on.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the room: Half a minute, Marshal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u402	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Public media, as the constitution says, guarantee freedom of speech and universal access to cultural goods in our country. Public media are intended to serve society as a whole and, as you can see from the results presented by me, Poles hope that these are the things they will be able to find in public media. However, the representatives of the Sejm majority considered that the public media were simply political media, which belong to the majority, that since they received votes of thirty-six percent of the electorate, they could all and the country belonged to them. The parliamentary majority of the Law and Justice wants public media to stop implementing the constitutional guarantees I have provided and to start pursuing one political vision. And these elements seem to be the salt in the eye of the rulers now. In our view, the new law is to subdue the public media to the political center of power. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The idea behind this whole change... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...is simple - we don't want independent media, we don't want control, we want...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u403	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u404	...full power over public media...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u405	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u406	...we want more money for propaganda, we don't just want to run citizens, we want to... [[Voice from the room: Time's up!]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u407	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u408	...to love us, a little bit like the end of 1984, Orwell. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u409	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska. There you go. Let me remind you that the time to ask a question is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u410	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a very specific question. [[As always.]] Why a systemic change concerning public media, eliminating the impact on the functioning of public media by a constitutional body of the National Radio and Television Council, limiting the powers of supervisory boards which, after all, function as long as these media are in company forms, why a complete reduction in the qualifications of people who can exercise managerial functions in public media, why the elimination of competitions, why the elimination of academics from the process of establishing public media executives - why such a law is a parliamentary law rather than a government law? [[Applause]] Isn't it the government's fear of responsibility? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For destroying the media? [[Applause]] [[No, it's just the government's useless. The government is for the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u411	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[He didn't make it.]] 414 Members voted. There have been 34 abstentions in favour of 155 Members against 225 Members. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Minority requests from 1 to 5 have been made in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on Radio and Television. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose not to repeal point 11 of Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2. The questions have been raised by the Members. Arthur Dunin, Civic Platform Club. [[He's not here.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the room: Move!]] [[Voice from the room: Take your time, Arthur.]] [[Guys, it's like a runway.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, you're eliminating civil media, public media, free media. This article, which you want to delete, violates, in fact, part of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, because you want to draw out certain tasks which fall under the National Radio and Television Council, and art. 213 says that the National Radio and Television Council upholds freedom of speech, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. Why are you doing this? Well, because you really want to change it into your own, have your own media. That's why I'm asking you an additional question. Mr Suski, why haven't you decided - because you're so eagerly [[♪ The bell ♪]] He took up my subject - you have not tabled an amendment, which you should use, that after agreeing with the President...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u413	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u414	...do you make all your decisions? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u415	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the rapporteur of the committee is Mrs Elżbieta Kruk at this point and that the applicants are represented by Barbara Bubula. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Where's Petru?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u416	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The regulation proposed by you strikes constitutional freedom of expression as one of the pillars and constitutional precepts of a democratic society. The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly stressed that freedom of expression is essential in democratic states of law, and the State has made it clear that it is precisely this freedom they want to end and that this is the purpose of this law. The laws notified by the PiS in recent days are a legislative raid on democracy, the rule of law and freedom of expression. [[Applause]] Poland has not been written so much in the media all over the world and Poland has not been written so badly in a long time. Poland has the world's worst press since the martial law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Democratic opposition in this Chamber is slightly more than 180 Members, Members of the PSL, Modern, Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: Boo!]] You can vote us out on almost any case... [[Voice from the room: We can!]] ...but you will never, never break the spirit of freedom and democracy in Poles. [[Applause]] [[In Poles, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u417	Thank you very much. You have the floor of Maciej Małecki, Law and Justice. [[A new generation, energy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u418	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not rise to such heights of emotion, but I have a question for the representative of the applicants. Do you remember the transparency, in quotes, of the National Council of Radiophony and Television when sharing seats on the digital multiplex? [[Applause]] [[Yeah, that's right.]] Do you remember and can remind and tell what the impartiality of the National Radio and Television Council looked like when the place on the multiplex was given to dunes companies, companies without backup, without capital, without any experience that could not start broadcasting within the time limit required... [[I think I'm going through with this.]] ...concession? And do you remember and remember how President Jan Dworak, a private friend of former President Bronisław Komorowski, during the concession process - I stress - entertained [[♪ The bell ♪]] at a big party with one of the participants in the trial... [[Horrible.]] ...the concession that the term omen was also late to start broadcasting within the required time limit? [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u419	Thank you very much. The representative of the applicants, Barbara Bubula, is asking for the floor. There you go. [[Basia, Basia...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, this draft law concerns this area, which is connected with the power over broadcasting companies operated by the National Radio and Television Council, which is the principle, as I explained in the justification for the bill, is not the implementation of constitutional principles assigned to the National Radio and Television Council. Of course, Mr Małecki, I would like to ask his questions, in the case of the National Radio and Television Council, the question of her fulfilling constitutional tasks not only in the matter that you have mentioned, the allocation of seats on the multiplex, but also the right to freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television, has left a great deal to be desired, because, please, over the last few years, freedom of expression, namely the possibility of a large part of the public to have access to information, to express their views in public media, has been very limited, if not prevented at all. What the right to information looks like, I presented in a brutally interrupted report by Marshal Kidawa-Błońska on how the Poles were informed. And the public interest in radio and television was not defended, because the Polish state rations and strengthening of the social community of Poles were not defended. Therefore, it is justified to adopt this bill and exclude from the power of the National Radio and Television Council... [[Yes, sir.]] ...direct supervision in the form of the appointment of the authorities of television companies and public radio. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u421	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 158 Members voted against - 230 Members and 36 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose not to repeal paragraph. 2, 5 and 6 and maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 3 and 4 in Article 4 27. The questions have been raised by the Members. Mrs. Marta Golbik, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u422	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The draft Parliamentary Law without consultation, contrary to the law of the European Union, abolishing the term of office and abolishing the competitive procedure for the appointment of public media bodies - we simply disagree with all of this. On the other hand, I think that everyone would like to know the answer to the question of why you are repealing the record that a member of the board may be dismissed in the event of a conviction by a final judgment of the court for an intentional offence prosecuted by a public prosecution or a tax offence. I ask you to answer that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Don't be. The president will pardon you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u423	The question is asked by Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u424	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have this question to the applicants: Why did you so post your own Minister of Culture and National Heritage, otherwise Deputy Prime Minister? Why does the Minister of Culture not appear at all in this amendment of yours - neither need to consult or need to agree with him? Why is everything in the hands of the treasure minister? And that's the first part of the question. The second part of the question is this: According to what criteria will the Treasury Minister follow, calling these members of the board one person when we do not know whether any qualifications are needed at all, or are there any requirements at all? Or maybe you can't call for example, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What if it turned out that way? And of course I agree, I will no longer ask a question to my previous speaker, because this is a completely outrageous story when there are no criteria or the need to dismiss a member of the board. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u425	Thank you. The representative of the applicants, Barbara Bubula, is asking for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, it's not true that in the bill amending the bill... amending the Radio and Television Act - sorry, tiredness [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] - there are no provisions concerning the powers of newly appointed members of the Board of Polish Television. According to the new rules, members of the Management Board are appointed by the Minister of the Treasury from among those with competence in the field of radiophony and television and who are not punished for intentional criminal offences prosecuted by public prosecutions or tax offences - I quote according to the project we have submitted. We removed from this change a provision requiring the possession of Polish citizenship after obtaining an opinion that this is contrary to European law. Of course, Polish citizens will be appointed to these authorities, but there can be no such restriction in the law. Now the charges are that they won't be dismissed if they commit fiscal crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be the first reason for a possible appeal, because the Minister of the Treasury... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: That is not what it says.]] ...in such situations he will always be able to take action on the part of the Treasury. I would like to remind you, of course, that this law is a transitional act, pending a thorough reform of the public media, and these provisions cannot refer to cadence, because it will certainly be so that this term, even the shortest, could not be implemented under the rule of this temporary law. So that concerns about the lack of cadence will surely be resolved soon when we adopt a major change in the national media and a whole new public media system. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u427	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 155 Members voted against - 231, 36 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the third minority application, applicants propose, inter alia, maintain the existing wording of paragraph. Article 1 28. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of the 4th minority proposal. Ms Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club, came forward with a question. [[There's... there's no... there's no... there's no... there's ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why are we in such a hurry? Unless you want to hand over public media to your employees... [[New Year's after the belt.]] ...with the wishes of the New Year's notice. There have been so many important words from this speaker about your proposal that I would just like to quote. I'll start with your Marshal's suggestion. Is it true that your behavior in the last two months can be described as follows: Our moral code is absolutely new. We are free to do so because we are the first in the world to draw out a sword, not for enslavement, but for freedom and liberation from oppression? [[Don't you have someone better in this party?]] Do you know who the author of this quote is? [[What do we care?]] Vladimir Iljicz Lenin. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u429	But I would ask you very much not to quote such comparisons, because this is not appropriate, and that is not the case. [[There's nothing to be ashamed of.]] We're coming... [[May I?]] Madam, the rapporteur... But I don't know if there's any point in answering that at all. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] There you go, rapporteur of the committee, Barbara Bubula. Applicant, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Question's been answered. I will not refer to the quote, but I will refer to an important issue related to the employees of Polish Television. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Joint Stock Company Television shocked some time ago the decision concerning outsourcing, i.e. the entry into the external company in a forced manner of 400 substantive employees. And it is them and those who are currently working at penny stakes and were pushed to external companies that ask us to make changes to Polish Television as soon as possible. These concerns, which you are talking about, concern only a few people from the Polish Television, stars who have salaries going into tens of thousands of zlotys... [[Voice from the room: Hundreds.]] ...for one program. They concern those who have provided themselves with large checks in contracts which they have concluded with the Polish Television, and they concern those who, for a large number of our citizens, are a symbol of bad, not corresponding public media missions. Therefore, I ask that you do not defend these few people, do not hide behind hundreds of honest, well-working, competent employees... [[Yes, sir.]] ...the substantive ones who either work at penny stakes in Polish Television, especially in regional branches, or are pushed to an external outsourcing company. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u431	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 158 Members voted against - 230 and 36 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority application, applicants propose inter alia. give a new wording to the paragraph. Article 1 28. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 191 Members voted against - 230 and 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th minority application, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. Article 3 30. The question was asked by Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u432	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! In democratic countries, public media are designed to inform, create opinions and control power. You, ladies and gentlemen, want to report every day of the life of power instead of creating an opinion. They spread the rations of the rulers, and instead of controlling, they praised the ruling party and the government. [[That's what the PO did.]] Currently, the heads of regional centres selected supervisory boards at the request of the company's board of directors. Why do you want to leave this idea? [[Voice from the room: Request from Baron PO.]] Why would you want to leave this idea if it was a good idea? If you are now proposing that the Treasury Minister should appoint a director with one signature and that he also appoints the Regional Centre Director with one signature, can you guarantee that they will be politically independent of the rulers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u433	The question was raised by Elizabeth Witek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A moment ago, the Member asked about media control. I wanted to ask you from the Civic Platform if you really... [[That's not a question.]] [[Is it true?]] Good. And you're right. Is the truth... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...that the councilman, a member of the Civic Platform... [[Voice from the room: Not anymore.]] ...has entered an entry, ma'am, which reads as follows: This is one of the reasons why... [[No, he was kicked off the platform.]] ...I sincerely hope to see the execution of this PiS band: Kaczyński, Duda, Macierewicz, Szydło, Kuchciński, Kempa and others. Show and public, so I can open champagne, spit and throw rocks. [[What mode is it in?]] I write it fully conscious and sober. As a man, a councilman and a member of the Civic Platform. And I'm gonna write, [[♪ The bell ♪]] until this execution occurs. [[This is an outrage!]] They don't even deserve a trial, they deserve sand? [[Second Cyba.]] So I ask you: Do you know this entry, have you seen the photos posted on the Internet, if you are so afraid of control? And the next question is, would you like to submit...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u435	Member, time is up. [[Iwona, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u436	...to the D.A.'s office? [[Voice from the room: Time!]] I see, ladies and gentlemen, that the only Member who has taken care of himself is the Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u437	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u438	He thought it was important. So I ask you, not the rapporteur or the applicant: Will you respond and report... [[Where's the D.A.'s office?]] ...to the D.A.'s office? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Yes? I'm very happy for you. We'll check it out. [[Voice from the hall: Are you ashamed?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u439	Mr Sławomir Neumann.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u440	With a formal request, Mr Marshal, a 30-second break so that I can explain to you, too... [[Media.]] [[Voice from the room: Alone.]] You can hold on, let me tell you, you'll know more, and maybe you'll have less emotion in you. [[I'm gonna need you to calm your activists down.]] We have seen this entry, Commissioner, unfortunately. The Board of National Platform has decided to kick this gentleman off the Platform. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Has he assembled so quickly?]] [[Right now?]] In a round-the-clock opinion, in a round-the-clock vote, the Management Board The platform unanimously decided to throw this gentleman off the platform. [[And you're gonna send the case to the D.A.'s office to get her interested?]] And can you stand a moment without screaming? [[And you're gonna refer the case to the D.A.'s office? It's called hate.]] Can you hold on for a minute without screaming? One second, some peace. He was kicked out of the Platform, the board's decision was unanimous. We're gonna go to the D.A.'s office to see if these are criminal threats, and in fact, so that the D.A. can... [[These are threats.]] We're sorry because what's going on, this hat that's on the Internet, should never have happened on any side. We do not want to quote the various entries that are written on us, but any such entry will be condemned by us and directed to the prosecution. It's obvious. [[Applause]] [[You've already had experience in this case.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u441	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 192 Members voted against - 230 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 2 draft amending act. The adoption of this proposal will render the 7th minority proposal and amendments 1 and 2. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, asked questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! One gesture of President Kaczyński, one act of law you throw people out on the street. [[The voice from the room: Stop talking nonsense.]] They started working a week on Monday, and they're gonna say goodbye to her on Friday. You're not interested in work, you're not interested in your career, you're just extorting hard-working people. It's a sick system. [[The voice from the room: You're the sick one.]] Do you care so much about starting a new year with Jack Kurski at the head of public television? So are we supposed to expect that instead of the news there will be historical programs... [[Yes!]] ...about the grandparents sitting in the Members' Chamber? [[There'll be historical programs.]] Or are we to expect public media to be transferred to Torun as part of the reform and decentralisation? [[Yes, sir.]] After all, we have a strong radio and television center here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u443	Marcin Horała, the Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u444	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants whether they share my observation that here are the Members of the Platforms in this Chamber demonstrating the mentality of the ruling class, which is simply due to power over Poland despite the lost elections. [[Applause]] Mr President, it is not democracy that, although you have lost the elections, you are to retain your power in the civil service, you are to retain your power on politicized public television. Poland does not belong to you, but to the millions of Poles who thanked you, they said good-bye and good-bye we will also tell you on public television. [[We'll tell you.]] Public television will be public, there will be Poles, not yours. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u445	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 424 Members voted. 159 Members voted against - 230 and 35 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th minority proposal, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 2 draft amending act. The adoption of this minority proposal will render amendments 1 and 2 irrelevant. The question was asked by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[The voice from the room: Oh, my God...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u446	I see you love me. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[The voice from the hall: They adore you - this is good.]] Mr. Marshal! Madam Rapporteur! I just want to remind you... You were talking about briefings, about briefings -- I'm sick -- about briefings by journalists. I would like to remind you that in 2009 your colleague, Mr Czabański, received 21 times his check-in, about 400,000. That's one thing. Referring to what Minister Kempa said about NIK's report on another bill we've been investigating here, I'd like to remind you of the bill I was talking about how you weren't in the Chamber because you weren't interested in discussing it. [[How do you know?]] The NIK report of 15 October 2009 on how you managed the media in 2005-2007. Briefly. The Supreme Audit Chamber assesses TVP's adversely controlled activities. [[Tusk!]] [[It's already been done.]] The irregularities found consist in particular of: the deterioration of the company's economic and financial situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] incorrect employment policies, cases of incorrect contract conclusion, cases of mismanagement of assets, etc., please countries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u447	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 423 Members voted. 158 Members voted against - 230 and 35 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the first amendment, applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. Article 1 2 draft amending act. The question was asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club. [[Mieszkowski's wearing a stage costume. The stage costume one has.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u448	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You guys are moaning so nicely at this hour. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're very tired. I only have a minute. Please... [[Voice from the hall: Like your actors on stage.]] ...attention. First of all, it's a short story. In 2005... [[You always have some sick association with that whining.]] ...when Bronisław Wildstein was the president of the Polish Television, he invited the then creator of the TVP Culture Jack Weksler for the interview, and this conversation lasted 15 seconds: I am slowing you down. [[Well, that's enough.]] Those are the criteria. [[Applause]] I would like to tell you that Polish public television is outstanding television, TVP Culture is a station, [[Applause]] which has been awarded many times at international television festivals. Programme 2 The Polish Radio, the Three are our values, which we cannot ignore in the conversation about public media. And the state in your messages is destroying these stations. You have to remember that you're not new people, you're old people. [[Voice from the room: Don't wave at us.]] You're conservative and you don't understand new people. So I'm asking you very much not to destroy...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u449	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u450	...public television. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u451	That wasn't a question. We'll proceed to the... [[Mr. Marshal, with a question.]] He will, but in what mode. With a question? There you go. [[Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski and Mr Piotr Kalet both enter the speakerium, joy in the room]] [[Go ahead.]] [[Excuse me.]] No, no, sir. Mr Mieszkowski... Mr President, please leave the speaker. [[Why don't you bring another actor?]] Mr Piotr Kaleta is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u452	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Petru isn't here, because even he's already behind you. [[But what is it anyway?]] He's embarrassed, and I don't think he's here, but I'm wondering if, on behalf of the Modern, we should file a request for a break. [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna take a break so Mr. Krzysztof Mieszkowski can get his shit together. I'd like to... [[But in what mode?]] ...to justify it. I recall, ladies and gentlemen, our first sitting, when Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, also on my behalf, appeared to express our solidarity towards the French people after the tragic events in Paris, after the bombing. This man can't even wear a jacket to look like that, saying [[Applause]] such important matters, also for the international arena. Therefore, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I, sir, do not wish you to have your filthy... [[Scandalous.]] ...I don't wanna tell you where he kept his finger in here threatening me...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u453	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u454	...that I'm doing some kind of swing. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u455	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u456	It's just a shame. [[Members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club hit their desktops]] That's why I'm thinking about taking a break, Mr. Marshal, so this man can get his shit together.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u457	I'm calling your Member to order. It's not a language that should be... [[Voice from the room: Kara!]] ...it's used here. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] No, no, sir. Ad vocem is gone. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] As corrected by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u458	Mr. President, you have... [[Kaleta. Piotr Kalet.]] That's a nice name. [[Remember!]] Mr President, I have a request for you. Don't judge people by their looks. That's actually a racist criterion. [[That's why I was gentle.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u459	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 239 Members voted against - 143, 38 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 4 and Article 5 2 draft amending act. [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, it's on TV...]] The question was asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u460	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very short question for the applicant. Is it true that Mr Piotr Kaleta, who evaluates people by appearance, such criteria, is planned to be president of Polish Television? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u461	Oh, no. These are, uh, your comments... [[Voice from the room: And that's a wise question?]] ...ad personam. This isn't the Sejm level... [[Exactly.]] ...to drive like this... [[It's not? Really?]] ...discussion, so I encourage you to respect the fundamentals of decency and speech. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. 232 Members voted against - 155, 35 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 3 draft amending act. The question was asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u462	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If we go back to the structures within which the government appoints the head of television, I'll be quiet. If you have the right support in the media, you can literally do anything. You can show the black wall and say it's white," said the president [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Lech Kaczyński. And it's worth mentioning these words today. All the more so, as the PiS Member who wrote correctly fits into these words: "Today we will adopt a small law on TVP and public radio. We'll change their power. In a few days, there will be honest information messages, and the voters will find out. [[Applause]] Finally, what the government, the Sejm and the president they chose do for them. [[Bravo!]] Mrs. Goody-Oracz... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ... Kraśko, Lewicka, Tedla and both foxes and the rest of the liars [[Applause]] they will be assigned to the rehabilitation media courses to the Higher School of Social and Media Culture in Toruń. [[Applause]] Are these your standards? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] Is this your good change? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] Why? Why, Members of the Law and Justice, from the public [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to make a government TV? Why do you want to get rid of journalists and power and one move without competitions and no term of office? Why do you want to show Poles that what is black...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u463	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u464	...is white and white is black? Why? [[Applause]] [[Bravo, great!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u465	Mr Maciej Małecki, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. [[But what voice?]] [[Low voice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The difference is that we... [[Question.]] ...we make a change in the media at the open courthouse... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Rapporteur? What's this?]] ...in the light of the cameras. In the light of the cameras, the committees are also being broadcast. You, on the other hand, made a change in the Rzeczpospolita at half past two in the morning under the dumpster... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...where the spokesperson of the government Paweł Graś called for the presence of the owner of the Rzeczpospolita, who the next day began cleaning in his newspaper... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...only because an article was supposed to appear that day that was unfavorable to the Platform. [[Voice from the room: It hurts.]] I am therefore asking the applicant whether he sees a difference in the treatment of both cases. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u467	Personally, I do not think that the applicant's representative could answer this question precisely in this case. [[We all know, yeah.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 134 Members voted against - 264, 22 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. Let me remind you that Amendment 3 has been withdrawn. In the 9th minority proposal to Article. 4 the draft law amending the applicant proposes that the law enter into force 30 days after the date of publication. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 4 and 5 irrelevant. The question has been asked by the Members... Katarzyna Lubnauer, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u468	Dear Members, Vacatio legis is the time allowed to get acquainted and adapt to the new laws. The standard, adopted within the framework of the Act, sometimes vacathio legis is 14 days. Here I wanted to explain that in important situations for your interest you can reduce this time vacathio legis to zero days. But there was one thing I wanted to explain. Even though the PiS thinks so, it's not like the state is us, which means it's not the PiS that's the whole country. There were 5,7 million Poles voting for you, but these are not all Poles. [[Of course not.]] Therefore, I wanted to ask myself: In whose interest, apart from the PiS, changing his legs to get to power in public media as soon as possible, is it time to vacathio legis, so that the time vacathio legis in the case of this law is zero days? [[Applause]] [[But you're repeating yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u469	However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the last words you have used indicate that... [[You're misbehaved.]] [[Zero days?]] ...this is not the level that you want, Madame. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[No, please, Marshal, what is this?]] [[Bring in the diaries.]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: She expressed herself nicely.]] Member Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u470	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minority request: 30 days for reflection. The Prime Minister, during our deliberations, there was no government representative, you weren't there, there was no treasure minister to take over, take power in public media as you expected, there was no Minister of Culture. Maybe these 30 days would be good for you to consider who you really needed to put on the company's president, so that you could implement a bill that would actually prevent someone who was acting to the detriment of the company from being dismissed. So you have to find someone like that, someone who didn't commit any crime either. [[He's here.]] Prime Minister, we also need to think about answering the European Council of broadcasters to their letter, an open letter suggesting that this law is threatening [[♪ The bell ♪]] media freedom. Let us take Poles and Europe seriously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u471	Thank you. Mr Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u472	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! There are many standards that are being discussed today, so I have a question for the applicant: Is it true that today, during your second reading, you were heard when you stood by this speaker and that this voice was received by the Marshal from the Civic Platform? [[Applause]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Yes.]] [[That's right.]] You have time to ask 80 equally sounding questions, and you do not have time to listen to the applicant and... [[Voice from the room: Answers.]] ...the longer I've been here... [[Voice from the room: But she was supposed to answer questions.]] ...the longer Poles can observe it, the conclusions are as follows. Democracy is when... [[But don't be smart.]] ...you have 14 out of 15 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and Belarus - as soon as 9. [[Applause]] A good change is when you increased VAT on children's clothes and bad - when there is a bank tax introduced. [[Applause]] And finally, ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The high standards were when Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska pushed the media law and when her colleagues from the Freedom Union, Mr Dworak and Mr Braun, took positions, including Mr Petru's colleagues, and today it is happening... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: I do not know what you are talking about.]] ...the lynch of democracy.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u473	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u474	Is that true, Member? [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u475	Thank you. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz,15, has the floor. [[Corrigendum.]] [[Corrigendum.]] [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: corrected.]] [[It wasn't the Freedom Union, it was the Democratic Union.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u476	Mr. Marshal! Pretty fast. High Seym! Of course, we are talking about very serious matters, but I would ask you not to talk about taking over power, mismanaged state media, one-sided... And don't pretend you don't, because that's what it is. Today we find out who the opposition is, who is not the opposition. I speak as this true opposition, not as a defender of the interests of the previous power. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You're an appetizer.]] Just, ladies and gentlemen, let's get this over with, let's save the embarrassment. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u477	Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasińska. I understand it's in correction mode, right? [[Voice from the room: Correcting what?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u478	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Don't yell, because I understand you're very well-mannered. I wanted to say that I do not understand the voice of the Member here, but I understand that he is a new Member and has some bad news. I don't recall ever pushing any law through the Sejm. [[Joy in the Chamber]] On the other hand, I recall that on several occasions my club reported media laws, with three of these laws gone and there was no pushing. But none of these laws had anything to do with Mr.John Dworak or Mr. Julius Braun, so I'm sorry. Why don't you come in for a cup of coffee, and I'll tell you what happened. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u479	Thank you. The formal proposal was made by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. [[Oh, my gosh.]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] [[She doesn't know what she wants.]] There isn't, right? We'll proceed to the... I have information, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 146 Members voted against - 239, 35 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th amendment to the article. The draft law amending the applicant proposes that the law should enter into force on the day following the date of its publication and expire on 30 June 2016. I am thus simplifying the obvious typing error, which was in the text, because the text was dated 31 June. The adoption of this amendment will render the 5th amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 264 Members voted against - 155, 1 Member abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. 5. the amendment is without object. We proceed to the vote on the entire bill... You have come forward to ask questions. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u480	Mr Kaleta, I would like to quote you and dedicate a part of the sketch of Dudek's cabaret. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Is that a question?]] [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] Rudeness will be fought against personal dignity and cultures. That's it. [[The forces...]] To the rapporteur: I am terrified that you do not understand media or television at all. [[To the cabaret, not the Sejm.]] You speak very badly of the stars. After all, television is based on stars, cinema is based on stars, music is based on stars. President Jarosław Kaczyński has been an undeniable star of Polish politics for years. [[Applause]] That's why you're sitting here, so appreciate the stars. [[But it's real.]] You have a great chance to make good public media. We're gonna look at your hands if that's what you're gonna do. This is, in our opinion, the last attempt that can television [[♪ The bell ♪]] To save the public.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u481	Thank you very much, sir, especially since this is not a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u482	You actually have to create it. [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u483	Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u484	I would like to mention that Mrs Witek spoke for 1 minute for 40 seconds. [[That's not a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u485	Mr President, please leave the speaker, that is not a question. Mr President, I should warn you that I am about to take... [[I wish you all the best and thank you for your attention.]] [[Applause]] I would like to ask you, Members, that you, at these points where there are points where questions are being asked, should be asked so that you do not have a discussion, yet at a level, let us say, which does not agree with the seriousness of the High House. Ms. Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are to vote on a law that is not media at all. We know you'll turn the National Radio and Television Council into a mess. We know you threw the competitions in the trash. We know that you are complaining about the bias of the public media in which you perform every day. [[Poles. Not us, Poles.]] We know that you outrageously insult journalists. [[But Niesiołowski's here.]] You refer to the nation that has chosen you, but you haven't even noticed in the election campaign before this nation that you will make a leap to the Constitutional Court, special services, civil service, and that the Treasury Minister will appoint public media boards and supervisory boards. You were supposed to be done with the arrogance of power. So what do you call what you're giving public opinion today? How do you treat her? It's not a media bill, it's a staff bill. [[Voice from the Chamber: Restoring democracy.]] [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]] And I have a question, Mr. Marshal: Is the truth...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u487	But this conclusion...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u488	...that, like previous practices, this bill will be signed and printed tomorrow. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As a gift to someone for New Year's Eve? [[Applause]] [[Yes, for Poles. For Poles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u489	Mr Andrzej Jaworski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u490	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! These last two statements have shown very well what the opposition is about. It's not about public television, it's not about the good of the audience, it's about defending your own interests and interests of your own guys. [[Yes, sir.]] You're asking why the treasure minister. Because he's gonna keep an eye on public money... [[The question is to the applicant or to the minister.]] ...so that this money doesn't go for your colleagues. [[Yes, sir.]] These are your colleagues, those who poison the minds of Poles today, who can pull PLN 5.5 million a year from public television. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] It's Thomas Fox who takes 70,000 for one episode. zł, every week. [[Yes, sir.]] And his company is also employed and earns money from the production of this program. Is that what this is about? [[Yes.]] Do you really mean employees of Polish Television? [[No...]] It's about living a decent and honest life, not being by their bosses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] sanded and forced that the opposition should be shown today as magnificent, and those who rule were shown as those who wanted to destroy anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u491	Thank you. Mr Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Oh, Jesus.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u492	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I want to be clear: I believe in Poland, I believe in Poles and I believe in freedom. [[So do we.]] But the style of proceding these night and urgent laws is consistent: the Constitutional Tribunal, civil service, now the public media, of course with a barren discussion - about arguments, because it is impossible. But with this important, you'd expect media reform today we have a small bill, a staff setup. And at the end of 2015, I will remind you of the definition of freedom: free will, the possibility of independent decision-making, the lack of coercion, state independence, civil rights, because I love and understand freedom, and we would like to say so much today: give us a good day today by quoting our colleague. And as for Thomas Lisa, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I was gonna say...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u493	No, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u494	...that you have some internal arrangements here, because the contract for the program was signed by the then president of Polish Television Andrzej Urbanski, the head of the President's Chancellery. President Lech Kaczyński. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Time!]] [[Not about that.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u495	Madam, I would ask you to conclude your statement with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u496	So decide, ladies and gentlemen, whether it was really professionalism or perhaps inconsistent with your findings. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u497	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u498	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant: Do you agree with such a position that we should talk about Polish matters, our internal quarrels, sometimes fights and decide here, in this parliament, without looking at what the EU's left-liberal elites will say, cultural elites located on TVP Culture and those elites associated with them, without looking at what the media in Europe or America will say? [[Let's cut the transmission. Let's cut it out.]] Enough complexes in Poland and enough in Poland... [[It's important that they write well in Moscow. Let them write well in Moscow.]] ...when foreign centers tell us what to do. [[Applause]] Enough. The opposition, the coalition - let us argue, but let us decide as Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u499	Thank you very much. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But, Mr. Marshal, I was also written, corrected.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no 161, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 418 Members voted. 232 Members voted against - 152 and 34 Members abstained. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice stand up, clap and chant: Free media!]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Radio and Television Act. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] At the moment, a formal proposal is being made by Mrs Joanna Schmidt.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u500	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr. Marshal, I think you realized that this formal motion I wanted to make before the votes because I asked for this formal motion three votes before. I would like to refer to Mr Kaleta's statement. I would ask for a recess and a convocation of the Senior Convention so that Mr. Piotr Kaleta can explain his words. In the middle of today's debate... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, you guys don't know what I'm saying yet. During today's debate about free media, Mr.Piotr Kaleta in the back, in the back row, shouted to Mrs. Możdjanowska that you would go after Facebook, there would be Facebook surveillance that you would be able to do it. [[Did I scream that?]] I think it's written down as Mrs. Możjanowska asked if the next one would be Facebook, what else, what else you're gonna do. [[Don't push it in here.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] You screamed, it's written down, you can check it out. I would very much ask you to explain those words.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u501	Thank you very much. We're out of order. [[Free media, free Facebook!]] On the other hand, I would ask your Members to submit proposals to the ethics committee on such matters. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 7th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. If any of the ladies and gentlemen of the House want to come forward, please join the floor. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 21 hours 19 min 26]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's resume the session. Four MPs signed up for the statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Kurzepa, the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have different barricades. It so happens that here in the Seym we are proceding on a very high diapazone of emotions, but also the need to strive for changes expected by Poles, who in turn have their own barricades where they are. I would therefore like to solidarity with those inhabitants of the Krosno district, the land of Lubuskie, who yesterday stood in an occupation strike at the district hospital in Krosno Odrzański, these are colleagues of nurses, midwives, medical rescues, diagnosaurs, medical technicians, laboratories, all those who have been and are still dreaming of various proposals for solutions to the state of the state in a commercialized hospital run by Szczecin company. The picanteries of the case are added by the fact that on Lubuskie soil, which is an experiment, in a sense, the organisation of health care was commercialized by one of the companies seven hospitals, which are still, for the last three months, in a collective dispute with the host hospitals. It therefore appears that the situation has grown to a level where it would be worth asking the Ministry of Health to quickly try to diagnose this situation, as there is a danger of health security in many cities of Lubuskie land, including Krosna Odrzański, Gubina, Lubska, Spratawa or Międzyrzecz. Collective dispute arises, among others. of ignoring the postulates of the crew represented by various relationships, who care for the quality of their work, care for patients does not agree to the process of mcdonaldisation of medical care and demands respect for the will of ethical conduct of the entire nursing and paramedic environment, groups of labists, diagnostics, medical technicians and medical environment. For years the classic state of the stalemate has been characterized by the situation in the district hospital in Krosno Odrzański. It may be a particular example of incorrect formal and legal and functional solutions of commercialised hospitals. They focus like a lens in it, among other things. the following dysfunctions: the indolescence of existing leading bodies - counties - which have lost control not only over infrastructure, but also on the impact on the quality of the services provided. I would also like to draw attention to the total objectification of patients, treating them as indicators of economic efficiency or loss of them. And the last element: the involuntaryness of the workers - the staff - who in fear of losing their jobs must enter the limits of what is ethical, what is safe, what is unlawful, what is simply a rattle in the performance of the public health service mission. In view of the above, in solidarity with all those who have been fighting for their workers' rights for many weeks in this district and on Lubuskie soil, but also in the interests of patients for the greatest possible safety of medical services, health services in this area, I ask you to persevere, and I appeal to the services of the elders of individual counties to step up the work supporting labour demands, but also patient environments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u503	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Miazga, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u504	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The financial perspective of 2007 and 2013 with the implementation of the Operational Programme for Infrastructure and the environment is coming to an end. In the field of water and sewage management and waste management and surface protection, the implementing body was the Regional Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in Rzeszów in Podkarpacie. Nearly PLN 172 million were used to implement 28 projects. Over 155 km of sanitation and 170 km of water supply were built under these measures. 23 km of sewage and sewage treatment plants were modernised in 13 agglomerations of the voivodship. The measures were also aimed at the extension of the waste segregation plant in Paszczyn. All these investments are the result of the hard work of the Regional Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in Rzeszów, but also proof of the institution's readiness to continue managing aid funds. Finished constructions and renovations significantly improved the state of waste management in the voivodship and thus the protection of the environment and the health of residents. I am very impressed by the immense amount of work done and I hope for further success of the regional fund. I encourage self-government units to apply for further funding in the next perspective of 2014.2020 and to contact the fund. I am convinced that cooperation will result in good environmental changes for the benefit of the inhabitants of Podkarpacie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u505	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I speak not only as a Member concerned about the meaning of the changes in the Civil Service Act proposed by Law and Justice, but also as a Lublin voivode until recently, because I have worked with civil servants in this role since March 2014. In the Lublin Voivodeship Office, higher official positions, i.e. directors, deputy directors, office managers and their deputies, are qualified officials in office since the voivodeships were representatives of other political options, such as Law and Justice. These officials then cooperated with the voivode representing the Polish People's Party, after which the office of the voivodship was taken by a partyless person. I was the only voivode in the Civic Platform during that time. When I took the office of the voivodeship, I decided to give all my subordinate officials time to work quietly, to demonstrate my loyalty to the state, regardless of the policy that the voivode necessarily represents. All those who worked in office in the days of some of the Democratic Left Alliance, in the times of Law and Justice and in the days of subsequent governments, continued to work fairly and professionally. They worked not for me, not for the Platform or for one or another Prime Minister, but for the citizens and the state. They've been doing this for years. Today, the Law and Justice and the Government publicly question not only the integrity and professionality of these people, but also loyalty to the State. They didn't deserve it. The implementation of the intentions of Law and Justice and the Government towards civil service carries the risk of loss by the State of these people. Who would replace these people? By the mouth of Minister Beata Kempy, the government claims that by amending the Civil Service Act, it wants to make the staff in the offices more professional and younger. How would you like, ladies and gentlemen, to increase professionalism in higher positions of office, if you intend to get rid of people with at least a few years of experience, in addition to being well aware of the laws? You will undoubtedly be able to find theorists, but without practical experience. I dare say that without the necessary experience gained during at least a few years' work in public administration, a candidate for a higher position is not a candidate who guarantees proper exercise of such a position. In addition, proposals to abolish competitions for these posts and replace them with appointments are a clear attempt to appoint their people as office posts. All the more likely that you have such intentions, since you intend to allow them, since you have allowed them to take positions in the civil service almost directly from political parties. I'm guessing this is about one particular party. By saying goodbye to the employees of the Lublin office, the Voivodeship office, I wished them all good, including good cooperation with the new government, because I wish Poland well. However, I did not expect the new government to prepare such an axe for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u507	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stefan Romecki, the Kukiz Club15, will be the last to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u508	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Amongst these push-ups, not only at today's session in the Sejm, I would like to say one thing about what everyone here has forgotten. As a Member of the Kukiza Movement, I would like to wish the New Year's wishes as a kosalian. By the end of the year, all Koszalin residents, residents of Western Pomerania, Koszalin land, family! Happy New Year's Eve, to watch as little as possible such push-ups here, so that we, here in the Seym, can act and talk about content, make decisions. Better tomorrow, better 2016 and next years for our compatriots. I hope everyone's health is good for our countrymen, and that everyone has a job so they don't have to worry about the next day. That's what he wishes - I think the whole - club Kukiz.15 and me. Thank you very much. I'll see you in 2016! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u509	Thank you very much, sir. I'm joining these wishes. Happy birthday to you, Mr Koszalin, but also to Szczecin, the whole Western Pomerania and Poland... [[Yeah, yeah.]] ...from Szczecin, from Świnoujście to Urzzyki Dolne, from Suwałk to Bogatynia. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and I would like to inform you that we have concluded our parliamentary statements at this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u510	Statement on Wojciech Kilar's 2nd anniversary. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 29 December this year. We're celebrating Wojciech Kilar's 2nd anniversary of his death. Therefore, I would like to remind you of the character of this outstanding Polish composer of classical and film music. Wojciech Kilar was born on 17 July 1932 in Lviv. His father was a doctor, his mother was a theatre actress. Wojciech has been taking piano lessons since he was six years old. After forced expulsion from Lviv, he lived in Rzeszów for a short time. He made contact with Professor Kazimierz Mirski, who advised a 12-year-old pianist to write. He then continued his study in private lessons with Artur Malawski in Krakow and later at the State Music High School in Katowice and also the State Higher School of Music there. After graduating with honors Wojciech Kilar became an assistant to Bolesław Woytowicz at the Krakow State Higher School of Music. During this period he won the second prize in the competition of symphony works in the framework of the 5th Youth Festival in Warsaw for the small overture. It was the first song of the composer released by the Polish Music Publishing House. Wojciech Kilar's work can be divided into several periods. The first was the neoclassical period. In the late '50s and early '60s. Kilar was educated in Paris as a scholar of the French government. Intensive participation in the musical life of the capital of France influenced the aesthetics of the composer. The second period of his work, called sonorist or avant-garde, began with the premiere of the composition of the "Riff 62" at the Warsaw Autumn in 1962. The third period, known as the postmodernist period, was initiated in 1974. Sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. An important element of Wojciech Kilar's work is his written film music. In this area, he made his debut at the age of 26. He created music for over 160 films, working with the most outstanding Polish and foreign directors, such as Krzysztof Zanussi, Krzysztof Kieślowski, Roman Polanski and Francis Ford Coppola. Nor can we overlook the sacral work of Wojciech Kilar. It was an expression of the deep religiousity of the composer. This can include compositions such as God's name, Exodus or Angelus. Kilar, even though he was born in Lviv, was very close to Silesia. He came to Katowice when he was 16. That's where he got his musical education. In this city he also met his future wife Barbara Pomianowska. Receiving the honorary doctor title of the University of Silesia in 2012, he said: "There is no greater place for music than Silesia and Katowice. I had the privilege of attending this ceremony. Wojciech Kilar died on 29 December 2013 in Katowice. He struggled with a brain tumor for several months. The composer was buried at the Katowice cemetery at ul. Henry Sienkiewicz. I was one of the people attending his last goodbye. His works are appreciated in Poland and around the world. This is witnessed by a number of awards that Wojciech Kilar has been honoured with. For his services in the field of culture he also received state awards, e.g. Order of the White Eagle or Order of the Rebirth of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-sejm-07-2.u511	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the seventh session of the Polish Sejm. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 8th session of the Sejm, convened on 13, 14 and 15 January 2016, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 19 min 39]]
