ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I will appoint Mr Małgorzata Golińska, Mr Kinga Gajewska, Mr Krystian Jarubas and Mr Krzysztof Kubow to the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, Mr Małgorzata Golińska and Mr Kinga Gajewska will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Margaret Golińska and Krystian Jarubas. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'd like to ask you to take your seats. I consider the minutes of the first sitting of the Sejm to be adopted against the non-rejection of objections. The groups of Members have submitted draft laws: - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, - amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. A group of citizens submitted a draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. Projects are prints no. 22, 23 and 24 respectively. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The group of Members submitted a draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The project is print number 36. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Thank you. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on all items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the security of Poland in the context of the international situation, which was requested by Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of the current Sejm will be dealt with in accordance with the order of opinion of the Bureau and the Seniors' Convention. The list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments is available in the Sejm Information System. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would ask your fellow Members, including Mr Hoca, to stop talking and take your seats. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 9, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 11, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 11, - Public Finance - hour. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 15, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 17. Communication on the meetings of the teams: meeting of the Polish Firefighters' Team - today at 3 p.m. 17 in room 23, bud. G.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u3	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax (print No 22). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to state the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Labour Code sets out a fair way for workers to part with each other. A small proportion of workers receiving significantly above-average salaries, often as a result of links or agreements, have been highly favoured by granting a right to severance or to remuneration for a non-competitive period longer than most workers. The granting of these rights to checks or remuneration for the prohibition of competition, as experience shows, is not economically sound for employers, because it is an excessive burden on paying agents and there is no rational economic and social justification. We receive information from voters that many contracts granting or increasing high checks or compensation for the prohibition of competition have been concluded in recent months, on the eve of the elections to the Sejm and the Senate. A good change also means eliminating this pathology in companies involving the Treasury, local government units, municipal companies and other state-owned legal entities. In the proposed bill we propose to tax 65% surplus income from compensation for non-employment in competing entities received over 12 months. Also 65% will be taxed on checks and compensation for shortening the period of termination of the employment contract or management service contract for termination before the expiry of the period for which it was concluded if the amount of the checks exceeds the amount of the taxable person's three-month remuneration. These provisions apply to companies in which the Treasury, local government units, their associations, other legal persons, municipal entities have directly or indirectly a majority of the votes at a meeting of shareholders or at a general meeting. We propose the entry into force of the Act on 1 January 2016. High Izbo! We are convinced that there is no reason to further deepen the wage gap. As much as 91% Poles surveyed assess the level of dissection in Poland as too high. Deepening wage gap is one of the main causes of income inequalities and thus social inequalities. The world doesn't deal with inequality today. Inequality is not primarily conducive to the development of a market economy, among others. because they create a barrier to demand. According to the current publications of the International Monetary Fund, if the proportion of the richest in the distribution of revenue exceeds 20%, the gross domestic product starts to shrink. If the participation of the poorest starts to grow, their income will reach the market and the gross domestic product will increase. [[Applause]] American management specialist for Austrian origin Peter Drucker claimed that if the boss's salary in relation to the employee's salary exceeds 20 times his salary, it causes economic dynamics to weaken. For these reasons, among others. Germany, Norway, and the Scandinavian countries in general, raise minimum wages and raise taxes. In this way, they flatten the revenue that is so obtained for public services. This makes the quality of life in Scandinavia the highest in the world. In Poland, income inequalities are strongly marked and high, however they do not increase further. They are larger than in Scandinavia, Japan, although smaller than in the United States and the United Kingdom. The rise in income and social inequalities in Poland, which do not receive public acceptance, is due to high wage differentiation and a faster increase in profits than gross domestic product. Large income gap in Poland makes it difficult to access many social groups, large social circles to many public services in the fields of health care, education, culture and many, many others, hinder social promotion, but not only. This is the reason for many social conflicts, because it involves a loss of confidence in public institutions. The further consequence of this is, of course, the demographic processes. Salary inequalities measured by 10% ratio most earners in Poland up to 10% revenue the least earning in the last 20 years in Poland has increased most in all OECD Member States. As I said, this gives rise to many social consequences, a huge sense of social injustice. We must therefore have a public debate on this subject as well. The proposed bill, among others. it is also a step in this direction. I ask the High House to have a public debate on this subject and support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u5	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Wojciech Jasiński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, print No 22. The CEOs of big companies should make a decent living. And they make money. Decent earnings should also be in companies of the State Treasury. And they are, although sometimes you might think they're too worthy. It started with what was happening with the privatisation. In our opinion, in some companies of the Treasury, the share of the Treasury was reduced below 50%, and the main objective of this reduction was to ensure an excessively high remuneration, which is justified by the fact that these are private companies. Such a position, such earnings go beyond a certain ownership control. The Treasury companies were still trying to separate themselves from the owner, from the owner's policy, to a large extent to give them autonomy. The consequences are not good. While the chimney law in force was not quite good at all, because it aligned small and very small companies with large ones, now the law which allowed that there was no control over earnings at all, actually the limit is only revenue or the ability of companies to generate income is extremely incorrect and should be abolished. This law meets such expectations, it is simply right, and we therefore believe that it should be adopted. We want to ensure that excessively high checks or compensation for the prohibition of competition are limited. Today you can hear, from everywhere there are voices that very many companies are changing contracts, the period of prohibition of competition is extended, the period of notice is extended against the principles of the Labour Code. Although the Labour Code is not mandatory here, it should provide a guideline on what is happening in companies, what is done by company boards. Of course, in large companies, those in which there may be secrets, the disclosure of which may threaten a competitive position, it is advisable to maintain the prohibition of competition. However, in Poland, as in many other countries, this has been exceeded over all reasonable limits, and we have been dealing with such a situation for a long time that what is beyond reasonable boundaries in the world is a complete horror in Poland. And that should be changed. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is in favour of this bill. I also ask for support from other clubs because it is simply right, although I do not hide that we will also make amendments that aim to tighten up these criteria. But I inform my fellow Members who would like to tax too much, that sanctions taxes in Poland are set at 75% and this can be regarded as a limit that should not be exceeded or even compensated, because if the criminal tax limit is 75% , these salaries, however often unfair and unjust, are not illegal salaries, and the alignment of these two taxes could also be considered to be contrary to the constitution. I do not hide the need to increase taxes on sanctions, and these possibilities do not exist. I would also kindly point out to the High House that on 30 November this is the border day on which this law should appear. Therefore, in support of the bill, I encourage the universal support of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u7	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Platform, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u8	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Civic Platform on the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, print No 22. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that we are in favour of the elimination of pathology, which in companies with the participation of the State Treasury, also municipal companies, are taking place, of course, pathology, as regards multi-million checks, which are paid after the end of work. We are in favour of a comprehensive resolution of this situation, a situation that has been taking place for many years, in which presidents and board members receive giant checks, often inadequate to their respective competences. Of course, the process of amending management contracts covering checks on employment contracts has already been initiated by the governments of the Civic Platform in many companies of the Treasury. This process has been carried out and has been managed in many places, but there are, of course, places where this prohibition of competition must apply. These are companies where state security is important. This involves briefings, but also, above all, a ban on competition. As I said, this procedure is not a matter of recent years, because if we were to go back to what my previous speaker was talking about, and before that, Minister Jasiński, during the time when you were Minister Jasiński, the president of Orlen was Mr Kownacki. It was then that the decision was made - I think it was wrong - about the purchase of Możek, and Mr Kownacki, leaving Orlen, got a giant briefing. It can't be agreed to. The checks must be appropriate to the competence, but also to the results of the companies as well as to the results achieved by the company. It is the Treasury Minister who decides on the agreements and we expect the Treasury Minister to propose solutions that are appropriate to the responsibilities, competences and performance of the companies, managers, presidents, members of the management boards of the companies in which they work. What is important, I am waiting for a debate, a discussion, and, of course, as a result of the discussion at the end, we will decide on the support of this project. We are in favour of such solutions in order to put this situation in order, while this project raises a lot of legal doubts that we would like to resolve, as well as develop it at this meeting of the Sejm and at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Of course, this concerns the issue of double taxation, as well as whether the bill submitted in this draft will be in the Official Journal of the Laws, whether we have sufficient time for this law to be in the Official Journal of the Laws in November, because at least one month before the end of the year such a law should be in the Official Journal of the Laws, since it could then be incompatible with the Constitution. So after the discussion, we'll make the final decision. We are in favour of a comprehensive solution to this pathological situation that has taken place for many, many years in public companies, in State Treasury companies, in municipal companies. We will be debating today and I hope that we will develop a project that is in line with the law, which will be competent and which will also be comprehensive in all its solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u9	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Mark Jakubiak, Kukiz,15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We were enlightened by my previous speaker, who, after eight years, realized that we were dealing with pathology. Bravo! [[Applause]] He doesn't even know how to handle it. Congratulations on the Law and Justice act so quickly. They don't usually take that long to get that pathology is that people make their money wrongly. This is real pathology. As a Kukiz representative15, I would like to say that we are absolutely against additional tax complexity, including CIT and PIT. We are in favour of eliminating CIT and later also PIT, but - as it always happens - there is a certain price. In this case, it is about checks and compensation relating to the loss of contracts signed by the Presidents and members of the Boards of Directors of the Treasury companies. I have the impression that I am talking about some virtual world, completely separate from reality, because it must be made clear here that we are talking about pathology, which concerns millions of zlotys. I am convinced that today talking about salary, the remuneration of company presidents of PLN 1 million is a shame because they are already earning PLN 3 million a year. We believe - and I want to assure you that, after all, I also employ people - that the level of remuneration of the presidents of the companies of the State Treasury will be reduced to 30 and 50 thousand. zł will not cause anything except that the Treasury will save some money. [[Applause]] Companies, as they did, will continue to act. All that philosophy that he's the manager that he has to... We believe that the President of the Republic of Poland should earn the most in Poland as the head of state. [[Applause]] We also hope that normalness will return to you. We hope you'll pay for your job, not that you are. We very much hope that those who say that this has a symbolic impact on the Treasury that it does not affect the economy... You're right, you people who say it's a symbol -- it's a symbol of the arrogance of power, and it's even an arrogance that can be compared to some kind of demoralization. I hope we're talking in the past tense. The former rulers led to a situation in which people get a million-dollar salary for being, and, on the other hand, a mother who takes care of a disabled child gets 132 zł of a care allowance, and I am convinced that this is a much harder job than the work of a CEO of any company. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We think it's just the tip of the iceberg, because we have thousands of board members and hundreds of board members who don't really know how much to take anymore. You have to build a pay grid, you have to organize it all from the very beginning. We treat this amendment of the PIT Act as deliberate measures limiting the flow of undue funds from the State Treasury, and therefore we will support this proposed law. [[Applause]] We very much hope that this is the beginning of correct changes that will lead to fair pay rates for board members and supervisory boards. It is important to consider whether supervisory boards are needed at all, since there is still power in the form of ownership. I feel a little sorry for PiS, because this is a test, this is an exam for Law and Justice - now everyone will see how many presidents you have called will really earn. I hope you pass this exam, and I keep my fingers crossed for you. Normality is what our voters have given us. We are supposed to lead to normality in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u11	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska from Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know that in terms of salaries, bonuses and severance payments in companies of the State Treasury, we are most often dealing with pathology. Buffs in non-profit companies, horrendously high checks and too long periods of prohibition of competition are on the agenda, but neither PiS nor PO have fought this phenomenon for years. Meetings for presidents nominated by politicians PiS, LPR and Self-Defense in 2008 cost over PLN 100 million. It wasn't better in the days of the PO-PSL government. We know from the tapes the history of the president, who according to the report took the position only to take close to 7 million briefings together with his colleagues. In how many other places we deal with similar practices, we can only presume. We believe that in state companies it is worth to adopt the same standards as in private companies: 3 months notice periods and no longer than 12 months of non-compete periods. The bans introduced for longer periods in the case of state-owned companies are nothing more than an attempt to allow the outgoing member of the board of directors to live at the expense of the taxpayer. Such appalling practices must be fought absolutely. Unfortunately, we believe that the proposed law does not solve these problems. Do you realize that management contracts can also be signed in net amounts, which means nothing else than that the law can be completely ineffective? Is it certainly fair and constitutional to make tax issues dependent on the ownership structure of the company? There's another problem. Did anyone even think how the tax authorities should determine the ownership structure of the paying agent? Let us remind you that our goal should be to reduce red tape and simplify the tax system, not to multiply problems. Ladies and gentlemen! However, I would like to point out that the issue of briefings is Only one side of the coin. We know well that after the government benches have been completed, it will be time to set up individual ministries for political tsunamis in State Treasury companies. The fact that Law and Justice will be able to place their own positions not only in economic resorts, but also in state companies, in our opinion, is a very bad forecast for Poland. It is sufficient that the key to the selection of members of the Boards of Directors of the Treasury companies will be similar to that according to which the Deputy Minister of Culture was elected. We know very well that the most profitable positions in top companies are often a distinction for political activists for long-term activities in favour of parties, sometimes consolation, a way to wipe out tears for lack of a ministerial briefcase or a place on the electoral list. In these elections, the candidate's management experience and vision and strategy for the development of the company are usually irrelevant. Unfortunately, the development of management and personal competences is the foundation of positioning leaders only in private companies - political affiliation is taking precedence in the state. And at this point as a club Modern calls for the depolitics of companies of the State Treasury. In our view, this is a very important element of change. [[Applause]] in the economic sphere of our country, necessary to accelerate the economic development of the country, which supposedly depends on the rulers. By making the law, it is primarily about being effective, not populist. How to remove pathologies in companies of the State Treasury? Privatise. In our opinion, this is the best direction. According to OECD, Poland should continue to privatise state-owned companies. [[Applause]] According to the 2013 report, from all countries surveyed, Poland has the highest scope of ownership of the State Treasury. The value of these shares and shares is currently estimated at about PLN 180 billion. It is a pity that such a large wealth is decided by politics, not economics. In conclusion, the Modern Club sees, of course, the need for change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Privatisation, not criminal taxes, is the solution. The depoliticisation of State Treasury companies should be the first step towards good change. In our view, the solutions proposed in the Act will unfortunately be ineffective and raise constitutional doubts. That is why we will abstain with this vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u13	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Genowefa Tokarska, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u14	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, print No 22. The project proposes to increase the taxation of flat-rate personal income tax from 1 January 2016 at 65% revenue established above the limits in the case of competition agreements as well as in the case of checks. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Points 15 and 16 of the Law of 26 July 1991 on personal income tax are added. In paragraph 15, the designers propose that, for compensation granted under the non-competitive rules exceeding a period of 12 months, the tax should be 65%. , and in point 16, this increased rate of tax concerns payments fixed for a period of more than 3 months. The draft law will counter the pathologies of granting high compensation and compensation for the prohibition of competition to members of the boards of companies with the participation of the State Treasury. Projectors do not state in the justification how frequent these events are or what order they are financial resources, but if they are, and we know that they are, the draft law should be considered socially justified. In general, we do not deny the need for the proposed changes, but we do not agree to the speed of the process. High Izbo! The imposed pace of work leaves much to be desired. Just after the first reading, in a few dozen minutes, because by 12, the project is to be the subject of the work of the Committee on Public Finance, and in a few hours, today there will be a further process completed by a vote, the result of which we can be sure regardless of the evaluation of the project by the High House. It is also a concern that I would like to point out that this is already another project submitted by the PiS and which is being carried out in this way. It has become a leading principle, even the rule of the governing party, to work in the Sejm without the basic justification of the project, without anyone's opinion, without submission of the financial calculation, and even without determining the size of the problem. The operation by the projectors by the statement of "patology" clearly suggests that these are not individual cases, but we are dealing with a large range of these activities, so we expect large budget resources. On behalf of my club, I would just like to express my hope that these funds will not be used to create new ministerial offices, [[Joy in the Chamber]] and will be designed e.g. for the implementation of a project submitted by the Polish People's Party, introducing allowances for pensioners, i.e. the part of society that expects help and support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[But it's in the budget.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u15	Thank you very much, Member. We've finished our speeches on behalf of the clubs. The question was asked by one Member, Mr Sitarski. If there are any other questions, please sign up. I'm closing the list of MPs. I invite Mr. Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz.15. One and a half minutes is time for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In connection with the bill submitted (Print No 22) of 18 November 2015, I am asking the following questions. The first question concerns point 15. Why did applicants accept a period of 12 months when taking into account the amount of remuneration? In this situation, it is enough to work a shorter period and there will be no tax obligation. The second question also concerns point 15. Why no limit on the amount of compensation, e.g. multiples of the lowest gross salary? When less than one year is employed, the full check-in shall be given in analogy without limitation. The third question concerns paragraphs 15 and 16. Why this is not the same term, in point 15, I quote - the provision of services, the wording of point 16 - the provision of management services. It follows that point 16 narrows down the scope of the management services provided, which gives the possibility to conclude service contracts other than management. It's like a gate to override restrictive records. The fourth question concerns paragraphs 15 and 16. Point 16 refers to checks and compensations, and point 15 lacks information on checks, where compensation is not available. What did the applicants mean by why the word check-in was omitted? [[♪ The bell ♪]] One last question. Have the amendments proposed by the applicants in the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act been consulted with the Sejm Analysis Office? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u17	Thank you, sir. Your second question is Zbigniew Griglas, Modern. One and a half minutes, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! There's no Prime Minister. [[There it is.]] [[There it is.]] I'm sorry. High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to two issues which, in our view, may make the proposed bill ineffective. Firstly, it is a question of the possibility of determining, according to the net amount, the value of the checks that will be allocated to the members of the Management Board. Thus, de facto, the value of income tax will be borne by the companies themselves and will no longer be charged by the members of the board of directors or by the members of the supervisory boards to which this tax would apply. The second point I would like to ask is the constitutionality of this solution. Some of these briefings were defined long before the entry into force of the Act, and constitutional doubts about the principle of non-retroactivity can therefore be raised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u19	Thank you very much, sir. We've run out of questions. The applicant's representative, Gabriela Mastowska, will answer the questions. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the statements of the representatives of the various clubs and the questions asked, I would like to clarify, in relation to the proposal made by the representative of the Kukiz party15, which resulted in the creation, prioritising the reduction of the level of remuneration rather than the application of tax restrictions here, that there are different methods of reducing, i.e. flattening income. In some countries it is proposed to apply proportionate wages as a result of an active state policy, i.e. wage regulation, for example. in Japan, in other countries, and as Scandinavian countries, it is used as part of an active state policy in this area. It's the tax system and the transfer system. It is, of course, a matter of choosing a method. After all, we can discuss this in the future if it is the will of the High House. With regard to the proposal of the Modern Party that it would be more appropriate to move towards privatisation of State Treasury companies than to maintain State Treasury companies and politicise boards, please note that in rich countries, in developed countries with significant market economy experience, where private ownership of companies dominates, such problems still exist - too large differences, i.e. disparities in the remuneration of those who receive profits from capital and from work, as well as within the latter group. So this issue, the privatisation of the Treasury companies alone, does not solve this problem. On the other hand, as far as representatives of the Polish People's Party are concerned, Mrs Tokarska has reservations about the pace of the procession, the work. I have to admit, I'm very surprised... [[Exactly.]] ...that you don't remember what it looked like to proceed over the bill, especially at the end of the last term of the Sejm... [[Yes, sir.]] ...when we received it in the finance committee from your bill not one-page like this, but several hundred pages, and from day to day we had to get to know them and give an opinion, [[Applause]] Take a stand. Besides, aren't you also wondering what kind of representativeness you had in companies and agencies, especially those related to the agricultural department? I think we'd need a reflection here. [[Yes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the questions that have been raised here, concerning inter alia. These formal deficiencies in the draft law, for example, that it is not all over that this agreement is a management agreement, and only the word "contract" remains, we are prepared to make such amendments as you have discussed here during the work in the finance committee. We have these amendments prepared and I hope that we will eliminate this in committee. On the other hand, when it comes to the issue of net payments, or who is to determine the ownership structure and how the tax offices are to adopt such a solution - there will also be an amendment, because it results from a legal discussion, a social discussion - that it is a taxpayer... We accept such a solution: it will be clearly stated in the Act that the employer will pay to the person entitled to compensation and compensation, net amounts. Because the employer knows perfectly well what its ownership structure is and that this draft law and this legal solution concerns it and covers it. I think that the tax authorities have the opportunity in every questionable case to examine such a ownership structure, even on the basis of information that the Ministry of the Treasury has. I hope that these key issues have been raised in response to your questions. We're joining the committee. I'm counting on your activity. We're open. If there are concrete proposals for solutions, we will discuss them. We do not just close ourselves to these solutions proposed in our project. We are talking about the effect of ending this pathology, ending this problem, because it is indeed unacceptable. You can't look people in the eye when they hear they're getting a couple hundred thousand-million-dollar briefings... [[Million-dollar.]] ...and another person doesn't have drugs, no food, no babysitting or just no chance of another job, except for trash deals. This problem has grown very strongly in public awareness. I believe that our primary and fundamental duty is to solve this problem, or at least to take the first step in this direction. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u21	Thank you, Member. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u22	As part of the corrigendum, I would just like to emphasise once again, Madam, that privatisation is the direction for us, but the reason why we want to abstain from voting is because of the failure to resolve the issues that I have pointed out in my speech. [[Commission!]] It is about the ineffectiveness of the law at the time of concluding contracts in net amounts and doubts as to whether the act is constitutional because we do not know whether it is possible to treat taxpayers in different ways depending on the ownership of the company. [[You may, the case law of the tribunal...]] So if you propose solutions... [[You can and you need to.]] ...which will resolve these doubts, we will certainly continue to participate in the discussion. Thank you very much. [[There is the case law of the Constitutional Court in this case, please read. Sentence of the year...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u23	Excuse me, but I'd like some peace in the O.R. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Mr Konrad Raczkowski will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In principle, the authors of the project presented comprehensive solutions for the proposed changes. I would like to point out that there is no government position on this project. I will not give a precise justification for the main two amendments, because it is here, in the Chamber, that the proposed solution changes the current principle and introduces 65% flat-rate taxation on income tax that part of the compensation which exceeds the remuneration received by the taxable person during the 12 months preceding the first month of payment of the compensation, i.e. where, in the case of payment of the part in which it exceeds three times the monthly remuneration, which is in accordance with the provisions of the Law of 3 June 2000 on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities, called the Chimney Act. [[Yes, sir.]] In fact, I would like to put an end to this by stressing that the draft in the assessment of the Minister of Finance deserves support. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u25	Thank you very much. The discussion on this point is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Act on personal income tax, contained in print No 22, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws (Print No 23). I ask Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u26	Thank you very much. My dear Miss Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present a bill amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. In electoral campaigns - and this presidential, and parliamentary - the topic of pensions, social security, retirement age, retirement rights was one of the dominant. It was moved by almost all political formations and parties. Today we have the opportunity, High Izbo, to take care of the first complex project, because there is no other project in this area yet. There is one ready, this Polish People's Party, which is expected by many people in Poland. Poles do not expect discussion on substitute topics. They want solutions to the most important topics, the most important problems. During the electoral debate, various proposals were made: since the change in retirement age by leaving the current rules, we, as a political formation, also reported similar solutions and trade unions, and citizens and this subject were taken up by the previous President and the current President of the Republic of Poland - PSL proposes 40 years of employment, 40 years of contributions and the possibility of retirement. This is a project based on freedom - on the freedom of the insured person to choose when he wants to retire, especially this freedom for those who have started their professional activity early. I concern various professional groups, not only farmers, but also those who have completed vocational school or have already taken up employment while in vocational school. Often it's 16, 17 years old. If they have paid social security contributions for 40 years, this freedom of choice is theirs. This is a project that goes out and goes into the future. It doesn't bring us back to the solutions of the past era, but it gives us a chance to create a system based on contribution years, because today they are more important than retirement age. In the end, we would like to propose solutions that go away from retirement age as a Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, and that go only to internship, because the result of the pension value, the value of benefits that will be paid by pensioners, depends on the amount of contributions collected divided by the life expectancy. And this is extremely important. This project is also not accidentally notified and is not separated from the economic reality. We reported it at the end of the last Sejm, last parliament, but it is worth noting that we have at this moment the lowest unemployment for seven years, the largest number of Poles working. She made the High Chamber at the request of the previous Council of Ministers to amend civil law agreements. As of 1 January 2016, any civil law contract or collusion of civil law contracts will be covered at least by a minimum remuneration. These are extremely important changes that will increase the number of people who will be paid a contribution. This is a big challenge. The aim is also to introduce a minimum hourly rate. I hope that this project will be presented as soon as possible. PSL will also propose its own. All these activities in the economic environment, in the labour market environment, cause that in the living organism, which is the social security system... And the living organism, and this is confirmed by the Constitutional Tribunal in many judgments, requires changes and adjustments to the current economic situation, including those arising from discussions with citizens. The state - I am talking about the government, about the PiS - very often you emphasize the words: listening and listening to the voice of citizens. Today we are the people's voice talking about insurance and freedom to retire after 40 years of internship, presenting. I hope it will not only be listening, but also giving a chance to carry out this project. We're open to discussing this. We also want to remove a certain error that snuck into the article. 24b and leave paragraph - during discussions in committee. 1a, but without point 26 and 85, so that this possibility of retirement after 40 years concerned all, both women and men, so that it would be complete freedom of choice. This project offers such an opportunity, as in other European countries, because this principle applies also to our neighbours, and in most European Union countries, where there is a combination of retirement age and work experience. We intend to move away from the retirement age and leave work internship, because he, as I said earlier, is crucial for these solutions. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The pension system is based on two principles. The first rule is the principle of solidarity and it remains unchanged despite the changes made in 1999. Further, the principle of solidarity is still extremely important. But equally important, on the basis of the revised system at the end of the 90s, is the principle: how much you raise, then you will have a pension. It is worth encouraging everyone to work, of course, but those who will be able, because there are professions, are those areas of activity where it is very difficult to continue this activity. Therefore, there are pre-retirement benefits, which is why there is a system of bridge pensions, teacher compensation benefits, there is a system of partial pensions, which, contrary to the opinions of some experts when introduced, has worked out, although it probably does not satisfy everyone. Therefore, it is necessary to add another element, so it is necessary to expand and add another element, which gives Poles a sense of security. On the one hand, pension security is guaranteed by the State, and this is undeniable because the State is responsible for paying pensions, for the effectiveness of the law and for pension security in terms of raising the pension value to at least a minimum, even if there are no adequate funds available and there are appropriate contribution years. And this is an important principle that the state budget, which, in my opinion, governs, in the continuity of its and its history, assumes responsibility for the solvency of pensions - and of the minimum, and of the acquis. It's very important that there's also a sense of stability. This project does not affect your sense of stability, it extends your choice. He gives this opportunity to those who have worked hard. I know that there are projects - I hope they will also be reported - about changes in the retirement age. This was the project that Mr Andrzej Duda brought in during his previous term of office. It would probably be best if all these projects, including the citizens... Yesterday, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party met with one of the representative trade union centers, social partners, OPZZ, president and vice-president. They support this project because many people in Poland, many people of work simply expect it. Therefore, the faster all the projects related to the possibility of obtaining pension rights, both those declared in the electoral campaign by the rulers today and by the President, as well as other political formations, are reported, the better because this decision cannot be taken in 2019. Our project assumes entry into force in 2016 and this is still possible. This is possible with quick proceding. That's what I'm asking your marshals to do, and that's what I'm asking the committee presidents to do so so that we can work on this project quickly. The financial consequences are illustrated in the attached explanatory memorandum. If it were to benefit 1/4 of the eligible Poles, by 2019 they would amount to around 9 billion, with the changed situation on the labour market, with the greatest employment activity of Poles, the largest number of Poles working, the lowest in seven years unemployment, i.e. increased impacts due to the contribution of a larger group of civil law contracts and consequently, I hope, to contribute to all the income that comes from a civil law contract, from a contract-order that cannot replace a contract of employment. It is especially worth mentioning the contract for a work that is often abused and abused in an unauthorized manner, and the contribution is not collected from it. It is therefore important to introduce a minimum hourly rate. These costs are not expenses, that is investment in the pension safety of Poles, that is investment in the fact that those who work hardest, who start early, have the right to choose. Ladies and gentlemen, this project, I hope, with the acceptance of all political biases, will go to committee. We, as the applicant, are open to discussing it, considering it, connecting with other projects, but we are most concerned about the rapid introduction of this project. Poles expect changes in the social security system, Poles expect access to pensions after working internship. It is also worth noting what periods are included in this work placement. [[Voice from the room: OFE.]] This is not only a period of professional activity, but also a period of maternity and parental leave. It is worth considering whether, for those periods where parental leave has not yet been covered, such permission should be introduced. We are open to such a discussion. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I ask everyone to support this project and to direct them to further parliamentary work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u27	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mazurek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u29	I am so sorry, Member. Gentlemen, that's what's bothering you here. Thank you very much. [[Sorry, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws. High Izbo! The financial problems of the social security system, which led to the reform of the system in 1997 and 1998 as well as subsequent changes, for example in 2012, have been due to demographic collapse in Poland in recent years, but also to the desire to stabilise the state's finances in the face of an ageing population. Focusing now on this specific issue of pension recovery, it is worth noting today that higher contributions to the pension system will not be due to an increase in the retirement age. For this purpose, a longer period of contributions is needed, and the lack of employment or employment for the trash contract does not ensure this. It will only result in the exclusion of workers from dignity and their longer use of unemployment benefits or social assistance. At the same time, some are interested in early retirement due to health, care obligations towards other family members, others want to work longer because of the type of work they do, especially in the field of science or art, as well as for financial reasons. Thus, when treating future pensioners as individuals, it is first of all considered that retirement is a right and it is not an obligation to move to it. Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The introduction of a law increasing the general retirement age has triggered widespread social protests. The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party was a co-author of these changes and a member of the then ruling coalition. You, Minister, haven't stuttered a word about this. You were in favour of extending the retirement age unconditionally. You refused to hold a referendum on this matter, you didn't want a public hearing. In a drastic way, you've raised your retirement age. [[Applause]] Jumping, at most in Europe, you have raised the retirement age for women - 7 years old and for farmers of 12 years old. This is the kind of growth that no one has ever given to anyone in Europe. And today you're talking about choice, you're talking about listening? So far... [[Voice from the room: 2020]] [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Trade Unions.]] You didn't give me a choice or listen. If we want to use your methods of action, Minister, I really should file a motion at this point to reject your project at first reading. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Please.]] But no, we're not going to file this because, contrary to what you're asking me to do, we want to investigate what's not the best for PSL, but the best for Poles, for our citizens. [[Applause]] The fact is that this project slightly alleviates the effects of the previously adopted law, giving the opportunity to people who are interested in early retirement and who have not less than 40 years of work in order to obtain retirement benefits, and is an attempt to make the basic pension model that the Platform and PSL government have adopted more flexible. I would like to stress clearly and clearly that we, as Law and Justice, have advocated and advocated the restoration of the previous retirement age. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the project you are proposing also has legislative shortcomings. We note that this project is aimed at men who have not reached the statutory retirement age, and in the case of women you are introducing a criterion of birth on 1 January 1959. Does this mean that women born before this date will not be able to benefit from the proposed solutions? This is important because the project does not provide for such differentiation due to the age of women in the case of insured persons in the agricultural system. The mixed rule in determining the amount of the pension also raises doubts. However, given that no matter what you say at the moment, being in opposition - and it is time to get used to the fact that you are in this opposition - we will proceed on this project. We will proceed not for the good, as I said, of the Polish People's Party, which perhaps wants to rebuild its image after you actually rejected all the projects, civil projects, and you did not want to discuss it. We'll discuss it. We will be discussing when, in fact, the project you are talking about, for example, the presidential project, will also affect Parliament. We'll try to connect him and work out what's good not for you, but for the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u31	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Izabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour to make a statement and refer to the draft law on print no. 23. The pension security of citizens is a constitutional duty of the State and it is clear that, for each government and for each parliament, ensuring the security of the pension system and guaranteeing the interests of insured persons, i.e. current and future pensioners, is an extremely important task. This task is also important from one point of view, because pension expenditure in Poland, as in most countries of the European Union, is the largest position of public expenditure. In 2013, it was 7%. GDP. Therefore, it is worth remembering that any change introduced in the pension system is a change during which we take responsibility for the quality of life of Poles, and therefore Members should know more about the pension system than anyone else. So let us remind you that the Polish pension system is that the amount of future pension depends entirely on the amount of contributions collected and the continuation of life expressed in months. It's just a figure of speech. In the numerator we have the amount of contributions, in the denominator - the continuation of life, Minister, expressed in months. So if you want to increase this denominator, what happens immediately? We're reducing pensions for future pensioners. The rule is one and simple: the longer you work, the higher your pension is. A year's work longer is 10%. higher retirement, which is why the main course of action is to prolong employment and delay retirement. The government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has undertaken just such a difficult reform. It was probably one of the reasons for our electoral failure, but, on a kind God, going to the opposition, we cannot lose responsibility for the Polish state. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: We have reported this before.]] It is worth remembering that the proposal presented by the PSL club reduces not only the pension value for an individual pensioner, but also the value of all future pensions. Our individual ZUS account is valued at the rate of wage fund growth. What does that mean? The more Poles work, the greater is the wage fund and higher the valorisation, and therefore, Minister, Mr President, these individual decisions about early retirement, which you have mentioned, will affect not only public finances in general, but also the retirement of any other Pole who wants to work longer. I don't understand why PSL wants to join in ruining the state and ruining the security of public finances, which was just mentioned by a law and justice representative. And even more I do not understand why you want Polish pensioners to have lower pensions. The Member's representative said that even 16-, 17-year-olds start work and can retire after 40 years. That means they'll be 57 years old. And they may have a 40-year premium period, because I'll remind you that since January 1, the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL has introduced the payment of contract contracts, and on our annual parental leave we pay the pension fee. So, in fact, a young girl who started working at the age of 17 could, according to your project, retire at the age of 57. Since 2040, such a woman will live another 30 years. If you think that you can raise for 40 years pension capital, which is enough for 30 years of pension payments, then unfortunately, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're wrong. Therefore, the Civic Platform Club cannot support such a solution, because it is harmful not only for a single pensioner, but also for the development of Poland, and let us remember that pensions come from nothing but the division of current GDP into salaries and pensions. That is why it is worth to take care of Poland's development as well as economic growth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u33	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u34	Dear Marshal! Dear High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on the changes notified by the Polish People's Party in the Act on Pensions and Pensions paid from the Social Insurance Fund. In our view, this change is nothing more than another conspiracy with a questionable and inefficient pension system. Not only does it not contain satisfactory durable and safe tools guaranteeing the stability of this system, but it also, to a large extent, once again strengthens inequalities between different professional groups. The proposers are already co-authors of similar miraculous reforms in this area, which have led over the years, among others. to the fact that pension benefits - precisely because of all these reforms - have been reduced on average by PLN 1225 per month and that a million pensioners in our country live almost in extreme poverty. Today, PSL wants us to adopt another idea, and in 2012 it voted in favour of extending the retirement age, and a year later - for taking hard-to-lay money from Poles in open pension funds. How do we approach this next idea when each time the applicant changes his mind, how does the future of Poles see in this regard? How should we approach this proposal in particular? This is a project prepared as part of the election campaign to make it interesting - the election campaign of President Bronisław Komorowski, from which he withdrew himself. The project is not based on solid calculations or analyses, rather it gives the impression of the conscience of the Polish People's Party, which, by extending the retirement age, also led to adverse changes for farmers, and now in a purely populist way tries to reverse this fact slightly, but at the expense of creating further inequalities. On behalf of the Poselski Kukiz Club15, using the topic of social security that is important for Poles, we call on the High House to no longer hold election campaigns on this issue, nor to put forward draft laws that do not give rise to any foundation for millions of Poles waiting for their pensions to sleep peacefully, although they pay huge taxes in the form of ZUS contributions. When we start talking about this, we need to learn about the state of public finances above all. According to estimates, the debt hidden together with pension liabilities is PLN 3 trillion, i.e. each Pole is already born with a debt of 82 thousand. Similar ideas as presented here by the Polish People's Party this speaker has been accused for years. The effect is only one - my generation would most likely not pay any contributions today, because it is convinced that no pensions will be received. This is a public debate. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, very civic. Starve.]] Our parliamentary club will not support this proposal. We are in favour of restoring the previous retirement age, mainly because the law that raised this retirement age has been introduced with a gross violation of constitutional acquired rights. [[That's not true. The Constitutional Tribunal...]] In the end, however, we are proposing to launch a serious public debate on a fundamental change in the system based on two assumptions: above all, social solidarity and leaving a significant part of the resources developed at the disposal of the citizen. Let us introduce an equal citizenship pension for all citizens, respecting acquired rights, starting with those who enter the labour market. We need to start talking about this today. Let's not treat Poles like children. Let's lower taxes, let people decide how they save for their pensions. The Kukiz Club15 will consult widely on proposals for a pension paid to all citizens on the same terms and on additional pension benefits dependent on the individual income of the citizen. Therefore, we are unable to accept any proposals that do not take into account long-term solutions. We should start working hard to build a safe future for those who are working now, but also to provide a worthy autumn of life for those who have worked for these benefits for many years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u35	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Richard Petru, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The law should be made so that there are no mistakes. Polish Constitution in Art. 67 makes it clear that the only criterion for retirement is to reach an appropriate retirement age. I quote this article: The citizen has the right to social security in the event of incapacity for work due to illness or disability and after reaching retirement age. The scope and forms of social security will be defined by the law. I have a question for the former Minister and Mr PSL: have you ever leaned over this constitutional analysis? The question is: Isn't it a law to please the public and then not be introduced and show that we, PSL, wanted to give you the opportunity to retire early, knowing that this solution is unconstitutional? Secondly, the law divides Poles into better and worse. Namely, it favours farmers at the expense of other social groups. Farmers are able to combine agricultural activities with the collection of pension benefits, while other groups suspend this benefit. The question is, was it such a good change here? Thirdly, and most importantly, she discriminates against less educated people and discriminates against women. Let me give you an example, we could use some math in this room. Let's imagine that we have an 18-year-old person who starts work. He's 40 years old, no college, and he can retire, according to your project, at the age of 58. And we have a second person who graduates, she's a woman, she's on parental leave, she ends her career at the age of 67. Let's take it technically for a moment that both people make the same money. This less educated person will have a pension of PLN 700 lower if he/she passes at the age of 58 than the other person. Let us remember that women are having children and have parental leave that will make them unable, in fact, to benefit from the privilege you propose here. Fourthly, the draft and the bill do not meet the basic criteria of good work. You write in the explanatory memorandum, you estimate that 1/4 of the entitled will take advantage of this possibility. On what grounds do you have these premises? Any experience from other countries? Did you do your own research, or did you just think so? I'm afraid that's what you think. Fifthly, the Act provides for an unrealistic date for the entry into force of the Act: 1 January 2016. Let me remind you that today is November 25th. The question is whether in this parliament these laws must be adopted at such a rate, with such a short vacatio legis. These are fundamental laws for the future of citizens. The second question is this. Here politicians go on retirement all the time, and they never ask how much it's going to cost, for example, the Social Security Office. Ladies and gentlemen, these are hundreds of millions of zlotys spent on the next update of ZUS software. The Minister, when he was responsible for the Social Security Office, should know how much it costs us. We accept any ideas, then we correct them, then the Senate corrects them, and then it turns out that at such a rapid rate, even the ZUS does not know how to make changes in the information system, the IT system of the ZUS. Finally, in my opinion, the law or pension debate in this Chamber does not address the most important problem of pension privileges at all. We will soon submit a bill that says that, from next year or 2017 onwards, depending on when it is considered, pension rights for farmers and miners, for example, for those who start again. [[And not for the judges anymore?]] I see no reason for a farmer who starts work to be treated much better than a nurse. I see no reason that next year a builder working at heights, who starts working, would be treated much better than a miner. I don't want to take anyone, I want to create a level playing field for future employees. Ladies and gentlemen! Many beautiful words fall from this podium, but we forget about social justice. Poles need decent and fair pensions, they expect a fair system for all. After the period of the Polish People's Republic, they rejected the system in which the state promises to future generations what it cannot give to the present. That's what Jaruzelski did in the '80s, giving away his money. Making new legal solutions should be legally thought out and good for people. The bill is, in my opinion, incompatible with the constitution, lowers pensions and discriminates against women. We call for the bill to be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u38	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to represent the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party and present to you a bill amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. High Izbo! The first reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act and some other laws, print No 23, shows that the draft law introduces the possibility of early retirement, where the right to retirement would have people who had a contribution period of at least 40 years to pay contributions to the pension insurance against the basis of the minimum wage of employees, regardless of the age at which they started working. Internship would be a job on the job, a contract of contract and a business activity of its own. In calculating the premium periods, the current rule will apply that the months in which the contributions to pension and pension insurance were calculated from a base less than the minimum wage of the employees shall be taken into account in a proportion corresponding to the proportion of that base to the minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen! In determining the basis for calculating the pension for a person who has been entitled to a partial pension, the amounts of increases in pension contributions or initial capital obtained as a result of quarterly valorisation shall not be taken into account. The amount of the pension will be equivalent to the amount of the basis for calculating it and the average life expectancy for persons aged equal to the age of retirement of the insured person concerned. Where the amount of the calculated pension is below the minimum guaranteed by the State, that amount shall be increased to the guaranteed amount and the increase shall be reimbursed by the State budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Similarly, this principle will be applied in the Farmers' Pension Fund Act, which is why, according to the current legal situation until 31 December 2017, a farmer who has not reached the general retirement age systematically increased to 67 years has the right to a pension after 55 years of age for women and 60 years for men if he has been subject to pension insurance for at least 30 years and has ceased his agricultural activity. The introduction of the proposed pension option for farmers who have a long period of farming and farm work without the need to expect an increased retirement age will certainly affect the decisions of the majority of farmers who will be able to hand over the agricultural holdings to younger hands in advance, thus implementing one of the elements of the country's agricultural policy. The payment of the pension will not be suspended where the pensioner carries out an agricultural activity with the spouse subject to pension insurance, Article. Point 2. This is a very positive solution for farmers under social insurance, since the insured person who started working on an agricultural holding at the age of 16 will be able to benefit at the age of 56 from the right to a pension, both for women and men. In addition, the payment of the pension will not be suspended when the agricultural activity of the pensioner continues with the insured spouse. As he said, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, we will be asking for the committee to proceed with the fact that in the article. In paragraph 24, the following paragraph is added: 1a are to be deleted from point 26 We propose that it be in its entirety. As regards Mrs Mazurek, I am very pleased that she has said such words, not for PSL, but for Poles and Poles we should proceed on this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a good project, which is why I encourage you, ladies and gentlemen, to support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u39	Thank you, sir. Eight people signed up for the questions. If anyone wants to sign up, please, because I'm closing the list of Members. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. Time - one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to ask the applicant of Minister Kosiniak-Kamish. The Chief Director of State Archives, Prof. Stępniak, at the meeting of the Administrative Commission in April 2015, stated that 11.5 million Polish employees do not have personnel and pay documents required when applying for a pension. These documents were destroyed in privatisation and ownership processes. They were not transferred to the State Archives, but were transferred to private storage companies. Private storekeepers received 50 years' wages and then went bankrupt. Today this problem concerns, I stress, 11.5 Million. You reported in October 2011 that you needed original documents. My question is: How many people have documented pension rights since 11.5 million have destroyed documents? I'm asking for an answer. I've asked that question to your government many times, and I've only received very, very, very rude answers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now, if your marshal would allow you, to assure you that there are a lot of job vacancies in underground mining that more people die for natural causes, working underground than in mining accidents, and there are a lot of spare places where you have to grow land. So don't talk about the privileges of miners or farmers. [[Applause]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Bravo!]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u41	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marcin Święcicki joined the floor as the next one. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Namely, the Member said that when someone starts at the age of 17, 18 or 20, after 40 years of work he may be so tired of working that he is entitled to this pension. This means that some people will retire earlier than the previous retirement age, even before the 60s, and even more so than the current age, which is expected to come into force until the end in 2040, or before the 67th year of age. At the same time, the average life expectancy is increasing. Well, I have this question because you said that they would be retired longer, and for that they would get a lower pension under the virtual capital they raised. Either they can be less retired and then they will have a higher pension from this capital, or they will be retired longer, but they will have a lower pension. Well, if these proportions change as you mentioned here, that people will retire around 60 years old, some people will have this 40-year work experience, and the average life expectancy will increase, many of them, even in their virtual pension capital, will not even raise for minimum retirement. So either way, they're gonna need a little extra money. What's more, there will be such a phenomenon that it doesn't actually pay to retire, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause anyway, I'm gonna get a minimum, so I can get this 40-year-old internship out there somehow, and I'm gonna pay a minimum premium. Are there any estimates of how many people will have to be paid not from their fund that they have collected, the virtual one, but from the state budget, to get at least a minimum pension if there is such a solution that the internship alone is sufficient? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki joined the next floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicant, too. Indeed, the Prime Minister was talking about the cost of about 8 billion by 2019, but he was very optimistic about the fact that we really gave Poland back in good condition, we have the highest economic growth in all the countries of the European Union, we have record low unemployment and, given all these factors, we can be optimistic. But given also the announcements of the rulers, the Law and Justice, which speak of broad distribution, we can be fully concerned that issues relating to economic growth and unemployment will change dramatically, unfortunately to a disadvantage. Hence my question, because indeed the issue of demography is a great problem and a great challenge for our country, and our pension system is based above all on the simple replacement of generations. How exactly will these changes affect pensions and do you have the courage to say that, as a result of these changes, pensions can simply be much lower? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u45	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Bożena Boris-Raccoon.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I should start my question by saying that it is a shame that you were a minister and that PSL was a coalitioner in the previous government, because today, as a former minister, you speak completely differently. Perhaps if you were not a minister, you would not reject the citizens' initiative put forward by my union, by NSZZ Solidarity, and supported by over 2.5 million signatures. Question: "What happened to the PSL that you changed your mind that you see social expectations that you want to meet these expectations of society today?" Do you think the Poles don't remember what you were doing in the previous coalition? Thank you. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: I think they remember.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u47	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Waldemar Andzel was the next to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws concerning the possibility of retirement by persons with at least 40 years of experience, the period of payment of pension contributions should already be introduced. Many of these projects in previous years have been, but in the last eight years of the government of PO-PSL I have not seen just from the ruling coalition of PO-PSL the slightest desire to introduce these solutions favorable to people of work. In recent years, PSL has supported anti-social solutions such as: extending the retirement age for men and women to 67 years, including women in the countryside by 12 years - from 55 to 67 years. What suddenly happened that PSL, including the Minister, suddenly became pro-social, and for the last eight years was an anti-social party and introduced anti-social solutions, including Mr Kosiniak-Kamish himself? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Weber will speak next. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Minister! I will at first confirm the words of Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz in terms of missing or destroyed employee files, on the example of Huta Stalowa Wola. A few thousand people who worked at this facility in the '60s and '70s can't find their employee documents because they've either been destroyed or flooded. This is a problem that concerns older people, and in my speech I would like to ask for young people, a young generation, an educated generation that enters the labour market at 25 years old, and - with the optimistic assumption that he immediately finds his dream job - he works in a string for 40 years, he reaches the age of 65 to have this 40-year contribution period. But this is an idealistic approach, in our conditions for many unreal: before a young man finds a job, and in the meantime he will lose it before he starts again... It's obvious that in the course of life, people change jobs several times, several times in the course of their lives. The main problem here is working for women who are still on parental leave and maternity leave. And so I'm going to ask, wouldn't it be justified? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In order to diversify the contribution period for men and women and men, leave, say, 40 years old and women - e.g. 35 years? I hope that this issue will be placed on the committee and the committee will also address this issue. Thank you very much. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Thanks.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u51	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Augustynowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would very much like to draw everyone's attention to the quality of the law. I would like to remind you that according to the opinion of the Polish Craft Association attached to the bill, this project has been assessed negatively as incompatible with the Constitution. Shouldn't we start work by checking the compatibility of your proposal with the Constitution? That's my first question. Second question. I would like to ask you why, in fact, the privileges that you propose in this draft law apply only to farmers. Is this some other, better group? And my third question is, what's the methodology... It's a test, it's that every fourth entitled will want to benefit from it. What about every fifth or every second? Why are you doing this? Because to me, they're totally sucked out of their fingers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u53	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Surprisingly, in the current demographic situation, with social problems arising from low pensions, the lack of funding for social benefits, limp social policy and health insurance system shortcomings, proposals are made to reduce revenue to the state budget and thus increase the financial system's failure. I understand the concern for the comfort of life of Poles, but, please, let's not be hypocritical. If, first of all, we do not ensure that our national bank is constantly and efficiently financed together, it can quickly turn out that there are more people who want to take from it than those who want to contribute to it. Poles live longer and longer. That's what we've been talking about today. Children are getting less and less. We have such a situation that we, working with our taxes, finance not only our retirement future, but also the retirement future of others, add to it. Why aren't you telling me? Where in the budget of the applicant country are going to find 1300 million PLN already in 2016 for this project? Has PSL asked himself who will finance the rising pension liabilities of the state? Have you informed citizens that a gift in the form of retirement [[♪ The bell ♪]] After a 40-year internship, he's gonna carry along, as it was said here today, even 30-year-old starvation pensions and an additional burden on the young people who are gonna finance it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u55	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Kossakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister, the Member. Mr President, just recently you said that, given the increasing life of the yearbooks that will retire in the future, they should work longer to receive a decent pension at a high level. Minister, I have a question: What has changed since you changed your mind and your club presents such a bill? If something has changed, if you made a mistake then perhaps you should apologize to the Poles for tampering with this bill and the changes you have made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Żyżyński joined the floor. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u58	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a request not to create illusions for people, because we are moving on to very important matters. What will people live out after the end of their working life? First of all, I would like to remind you of what has already been said many times, that in a system where retirement is dependent on the so-called. pension capital - I want to remind you - there is no money when it comes to what was taken from us from OFE. Although we have criticized Minister Rostowski many times, no money has really been taken from people, because Mr. Richard, there is no money in OFE. [[And the cash?]] We have securities whose value is a certain illusion, because it depends on the state of the capital market. There's no money in OFE. They didn't take people's money. Some funds have been moved, a promise has been made - we will not say anything about its reality - but there is no money there, because what was taken from people was immediately converted into securities whose value depends on the state of the capital market. This value can drop even twice, three times, four times... [[Not even to zero.]] ...and sometimes practically to zero, so please do not create an illusion to people that in these pensions, the money that has been directed to the capital market, there is any money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members enrolled in the task of questions has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Marcin Zielenecki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u60	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that there is no official position of the Council of Ministers in the legislative act, but I am pleased to present the position of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. I would like to say that, in the oral justification of the project presented by Mr Kosiniak-Kamish, there have been certain, I would say, positive observations, that is to say, two things I have pointed out, namely that the applicant country sees the need to look for savings not only in the area of expenditure of the Social Insurance Fund - as has been so far - but also in the system of income of this Social Insurance Fund, so that it can be said that this is a certain request that coincides with our position. Secondly, we agree that the current regulation of the pension right is too rigid to regulate, that the retirement age is actually, say, one, the basic retirement age, and that there is a need to make the retirement process more flexible, while we differ in the concept. [[There are partial pensions.]] The partial pensions were declared non-constitutional by the Court. [[No.]] We differ in the way the latter is implemented, above all, because the aim of this project is only to make the transition more flexible. The reasons for this were already mentioned in this Chamber today. Mostly we have constitutional reservations. It was quoted today by the article. 67 constitutions. The Constitution requires that the right to a pension or the right to social security be subject to the condition of reaching the retirement age, so it is quite dangerous, I would say, that the words should be introduced regardless of age, dependent only on the grounds of service of years, and go further this way. This is, you can say, the direction... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Constitutional changes.]] ...which is unconstitutional. I would like to present the position of the Constitutional Court, which has spoken on this subject twice. In 1999, the Court stated: "The right of the legislator to determine the scope of social security includes, in particular, the right to determine the retirement age within a period of time, whose limits are determined by the essence of the right to retirement.' Last year - I think of a loud ruling of 7 May 2014 - the tribunal confirmed this position. He stated that: "The constitutional right to a pension is the right to receive a benefit in the form and extent laid down in the law, due to the citizen for his service or work-related merit, after reaching a certain age. And the next sentence is very important here: "This age is the only constitutional condition for the right to a pension; other conditions may be laid down by law as to the retirement age, the legislator is authorised and obliged to determine its amount, but cannot give it up. With regard to the detailed comments on the project, we have reservations about the two proposals contained in this project: firstly, the proposal which limits the right to pensions regardless of age for women, or, in fact, deprives women born before 1 January 1959, except that this defect, as I understand it, will remove the state in the course of its legislative work, secondly, the so-called mechanism appears in the draft. mixed retirement, i.e. the use of so-called. the mixed rule when determining the amount of the pension. I would like to say that this is, in fact - this is a solution proposed by you - a solution addressed to persons covered by the new pension scheme, and here, in principle, the possibility of using both formulas, i.e. the formula of the defined benefit and formula of the defined contribution, does not exist. So we have reservations about this, but we share the view that the proposal should be addressed to further legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u61	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for this debate. Everything points to this, judging by the announcements of the biggest clubs, that the project will go into further work. And this is a fundamental thing for Poles. [[There you go.]] Not for the PSL, not for the palm of the palm, as Mrs Mazurek mentioned, because that is not the point. The point is, people are just waiting for this bill and it's worth putting it in place as soon as possible. [[They've been waiting for eight years.]] That's why we put it together in our previous term of office and nothing has changed. First of all, allow me, ladies and gentlemen... [[Minister...]] ...that I would refer to the Minister's words, thanking him for his support for this project, along with these comments. I'm sure this change in women is an unintended mistake. It will be fixed. All women will have the right to take advantage of this - 40 years - and retire. As far as partial pensions are concerned, the Constitutional Tribunal questioned the discrepancy between the age of men and women and not the idea itself... [[It's just that.]] ...the introduction of partial pensions. And that ruling is valid. I think this bill, as I say, 40 years, would solve this problem. When it comes to club speeches, I will first refer to the largest political formation. In part, I agree, in part I disagree. Pension is a right and this is probably the fundamental foundation of the social security system. It was not unconditionally during the debate on retirement age that we agreed to all solutions. Let us remember that it was on the initiative of PSL that partial pensions and insurance and contributions were introduced for women or men on parental leave - for those who were uninsured, self-employed and insured in KRUS. This pension insurance has been in place since September 2013. It's not jumping, it's walking, because the jumping change is immediately changing from one value to another, and here it's reaching higher values in the stages of about 30 years. So I think this is where the wrong word was used by the Member. We will see - now you have a chance, ladies and gentlemen - how you will implement various kinds of social projects. 500 PLN not so long ago was for everyone, then for the second child and for those who have the lowest income. Since yesterday, we've been hearing... [[You haven't read the bill, have you?]] Because the bill hasn't been made yet, sir. I'd love to read it. I'd love to read the final bill. There were various announcements. Let's see what the finale is. PSL will stand in the position that this change will only be good when it will first help those who have the lowest benefits, i.e. if it is not included in the income. The inclusion in income will result in those who are taking other benefits today not gaining these 500 PLN in full. As far as the honourable Member is concerned, Minister Isabella Leszczyna. I think you've forgotten who picked up that password first and what political formation President Komorowski came from. [[I, on behalf of the Civic Platform...]] I don't think you're gonna give up on the Civic Platform. And President Komorowski said, it was a slogan, about 40 years of internship. Too bad there's no consistency here. [[I'm not the president.]] I think that effect would be greater. This freedom of choice which we present lies on the Poles' side of the decision. Forty years of working life, raised pension capital can often constitute even more capital than reaching retirement age without raising a certain amount of capital. It's always been such a dispute in this coalition of ours, which I judge well. [[Me too.]] The argument was that for you, public finances were always the most important, and for us the most important was the finances of Polish families. Public finances are very important, but the most important are for the Polish People's Party... [[There is no Polish family without public finances.]] ...Polish families - assuming that public finances are very important. [[Yeah.]] We This project we reported earlier, we reported it while still in the government coalition. The President's first announcements came in May, and we, somehow taking over this initiative, put it as a project not for discussion, because unfortunately it was not allowed to be discussed in the High House, but we submitted this proposal much earlier. I was still Minister of Labour and Social Policy, also on my behalf, because there was no government position, and I supported this project. Do not be afraid of this solution, because it gives - many times I have said so - the possibility of choosing. Those who want to benefit from it, who will consider that this value of retirement or this tiredness resulting from the labor difficulties are large, will be able to retire. If he doesn't want to, he'll be able to stay active. Yesterday we also talked with OPZZ about the active ageing program, also professional - i.e. maybe less burdens for companies, maybe less hours for those who work longer. This is a matter to consider. As regards Ms Agnieszka's speech, Chasing on behalf of the Kukiz club15 - these changes are for everyone, not only for farmers, not only for insured persons in KRUS, but for all insured persons. There are many insured persons in the ZUS who have worked since 16, 17 years of age because they started in vocational schools, at factory workplaces, because they started their professional activity and continued it throughout their life, sometimes in one place. So this project is for everyone, not for the chosen ones. You have your initiative, you want to report a citizens' pension project - nothing stands in the way of such a project. It is good to finally have a substantive discussion. Thank you for all the votes, because the discussion concerns the most important issues for Poles. This solution takes into account long-term goals - there was a doubt whether it took into account long-term goals. Yeah, it's a long-term solution. That is why this proposal was made to leave the retirement age. For this, changes in the constitution are needed. I will be pleased to speak with you as soon as Mr Petru has spoken. Changes in the Constitution are needed to complete the exit from the retirement age and replace it only by an internship. Mr Petru spoke about this constitution, too. There are different opinions in this area, because we do not say that there should be a retirement age in Poland. We leave age-related solutions, we complement this system. As a certain complement and protection in this system are pre-retirement benefits on the one hand, are partial pensions or bridge pensions, we propose adding another element that complements the system, but as a result we think that more important for the insurance internship, more important for the amount of pensions is the amount of contributions paid, based on a system which, I think, Mr President was very supportive in the 1990s, which he was somehow co-founder. As far as farmers and KRUS are concerned, on the basis of many statements in the election campaign, and now we see that this topic is very alive, it is in the statements of the President. I don't know if this is some unfulfilled youthful dream of holding a farm. [[Applause]] We can somehow give it a chance to implement it. [[Not for the state.]] The work of the farmer and the insurance in the KRUS, which is not a privilege, is another form of social security, because there are other relationships of contributions up to the amount of the pension, otherwise, there are other relationships of receiving benefits, sickness benefits by the farmer and by the insured person in the ZUS, because there is another contribution. It's not a privilege, it's a different system. This system is maintained in countries such as France and Germany, i.e. countries where agriculture is also an important part of the economy. And there's no one there for many years to think about connecting these systems. Even a small Luxembourg that maybe has 5,000. agricultural holdings also maintain a separate system to support the economy and a part of the very important part of the economy, namely agriculture, namely food security. Because this is not the same as the agricultural surcharge, or the European Union's common programme, as other insurances are not a subsidy to the farm, they are consequently a surcharge for everyone to be able to buy food so that everyone can, above all, those living in the city, have access to food not at real prices, but at affordable prices. So if this dream and the desire to be insured in the KRUS is so big, we will certainly try to fulfill it somehow for the president. As far as women are concerned, there won't be any variation, I've already explained. And the time spent on raising children after the changes we've made in the last four years, and the changes that have been made before, will not sometimes be wasted from the insurance point of view, because the period of parental leave is counted as an internship for everyone, not just for the workers. From a different basis of course, for those who work on the basis of a contract of employment, it is from 60% the average salary, similar to that of the economic operators. It is different for those who are uninsured, or for those who are insured in KRUS, there are different rates, but the time devoted to raising children is included in the educational leave. Of course, we have a topic about those who were earlier in previous years. We want to resolve it, if there is your support and other parliamentary parties, to add and all educational leave, also before the changes introduced in 2013 and earlier, to the insurance internship, that is very, very good. As far as the costs of the Social Security Office are concerned, I think that this is a change of a strategic, fundamental nature, of a long-term nature and a country such as Poland can certainly afford to make changes that citizens expect on the one hand, and on the other hand, which better implement the possibility of obtaining pension capital. As far as the questions of your Members are concerned, the State Archives deal with this to a large extent, they are not subject to the Ministry of Labour, and I am no longer a minister, so I am sure that these questions should be addressed to the Government. There are no solutions here in this bill. As far as the question by Marcin Święcicki is concerned, the traineeship in this solution is the most important. If this is 40 years of contributions, in the vast majority of cases it will allow for minimum retirement. There is a much greater risk of non-retirement and state subsidies when we are only talking about retirement age, and we are not talking about insurance internship, because in the course of life it is not known how many contributions have been paid. Further changes are needed in the payment of contributions and the entry into force of those applied. Mr Jakub Rutnicki asked what the pension would be. She depends on the contributions she raises. Nothing's changed in the approach here. As many as you can get, you'll get pension benefits. But the foundation of this project is that it's up to you to decide. Each insured person will be able to decide whether he is able to continue working and whether the value of the calculated pension after 40 years of working life suits him or wants to remain active. It is worth considering this idea of active occupational ageing, which will enable, maybe half-time, to add to this pension or a lower burden. There were questions about whether we changed our minds. We have not changed our minds because we have presented this project in that parliamentary term. It was put together in June or early July, during that parliamentary term. And the attitude towards the life expectancy of Poles has not changed, what affects the value of the pension has not changed. As we applied for partial pensions at the time, which offer an opportunity for early retirement, as we then requested to maintain pre-retirement benefits, in a changed situation on the labour market, with the lowest unemployment for many years, as in the changed economic situation, with good GDP and a good outlook for next year, with changes in the contribution of contracts, i.e. greater impacts to the Social Insurance Fund. Now's a good time to build this system. I hope you'll back that up. [[Member of Bożen Borys-Raccoon: I asked about 2013.]] Have we introduced antisocial solutions? I thank Mr Andzel very much for this question. Then why did you vote for these anti-social solutions? Why did you vote in favour of extended parental leave up to 52 weeks, one of the longest in Europe? Why did you support that? You said that this government and this ministry, which I had the pleasure of running, put anti-social solutions in place. Is the Big Family Charter an antisocial solution? Is the construction of crèches, the program "Milch', an antisocial solution? Is it an antisocial solution to cover parental leave? Are senior policy and senior programmes antisocial solutions? You voted in favour of many of these solutions during that term, so don't really condemn everything that has been adopted in the last eight years, including what you've been for, because it's already getting mixed up with the confusion. I understand that in many cases we may disagree, but saying yes and making the argument that these are only anti-social solutions is far from right. [[Mr Bożen Borys-Raccoon: PSL woke up.]] It hasn't woken up, PSL has had good activity for many, many years. A generation of young, educated people - Mr Weber asked. It is worth considering various solutions. Thank you very much, because this 40-year solution first goes to those hardest-working women, including the nurses mentioned by Mr Petru. In committees, I think it's worth opening up to all kinds of ideas, to those submitted by political environments, but also to civic ideas. As far as questions concerning the constitution and farmers are concerned, I said: this law is not for the chosen, it is for everyone, the law is equal here, although there are different security systems and these security systems are different not only in the area of agriculture and the ZUS system, but also in the uniform system, mining pension system and others. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this debate. I hope that we will move quickly to the committee's process, that other projects will also be submitted, because time cannot be wasted. Poles are waiting for such changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u63	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Petru and Mrs Józefina Hrynkiewicz spoke on the basis of a corrigendum. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two things. I wanted to tell Mr Żyżyński not to scare people in Poland. You are now a member of the ruling party. I don't know if you know this, but next year you're going to have to issue some 150 billion bonds to the Treasury to finance the debt. Don't tell the Poles it could be zero for us. If there is a very bad policy, it can of course be zero, but I would like you not to scare people - Treasury bonds are quite safe instruments. Let me remind you, OFE had Treasury bonds in his wallets, Jacek Rostowski, including you, took it from them. [[Corrigendum.]] This is important because you should care about it, and I will fight for it too, so that you can issue bonds to keep our debt rolling. To Mr Kosiniak-Kamish: I will never be on the KRUS, with us, as far as I know, no one is on the KRUS. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: But how about KRUS?]] Let me remind you that the KRUS costs us 16 billion zlotys as taxpayers. Contributions are only 1.4 billion. It's just that... [[Voice from the room: What about the ZUS?]] [[Voice from the room: ZUS - 50.]] [[What about income taxes?]] The KRUS is not, of course, in the long term to finance unprofitable agriculture. I'm proposing another solution - we're putting KRUS out of business... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: In some fragments...]] ...a farmer who has 50 ha or 100 ha, I see no reason for him to be treated differently than a nurse. That's all I meant, sir. And the second thing about the issue of the Constitution, I pointed out the unconstitutionality of the provisions, because the basic law clearly states that retirement age is the only criterion for retirement. I hope you don't enter that white-red coalition that Jarosław Kaczyński was talking about to change the constitution because it's dangerous. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Józefina Hrynkiewicz. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There's a reason why I asked Minister Kosiniak-Kamish how many people have already worked for 40 years, because since you've filed a bill, I'm sure you knew that. However, the matter of the destruction of personnel-payment records has actually been going on since the beginning of the transformation, but it has only increased in the last eight years when you were in charge of your governments, because you have done nothing with a few thousand private storekeepers who received 50 years in advance for storing these materials. Then the disaster happened, and the materials disappeared. The prosecution, yes, took action to declare that the punishment of 300 PLN is entirely sufficient, because there is little social harm in the act - the destruction of millions of people's personnel and pay records. That's what I'm talking about. You've done one thing. In October 2011, you introduced the rule: only the original documents. I asked you how many people today have original documents that will allow them to retire after 40 years of work, including twenty years of developing fantastic garbage contracts. They often have no internship, also no documents, they are employed in black. I asked for such calculations, nothing more. I understand that you have made a very thorough calculation by submitting a bill. That is why I asked the chief director of the State Archives to explain what this crime, the criminal one, in my opinion, is, and the state simply rejected this crime and introduced the regulation. That's what I'm complaining about. This is simply an unacceptable thing that has happened. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you allow the marshal, I will gladly tell young people who offer civic pensions in my spare time where they came from, when they were introduced, under what circumstances and the consequences they have had. It is really worthwhile before repeating such slogans to find out where certain solutions come from and how long they last. And I am ready for Mr Petru personally to get a job that brings great privileges - in mining. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u67	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Żyżyński also spoke on the basis of a corrigendum. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u68	I was afraid you weren't here. Mr. Chairman... [[I'm here.]] I see you. It's not like OFE is investing in bonds. If they were investing in bonds, you could say that would be good. But he was, as you know, a problem, which is why the OFE was withdrawn, the money was taken... [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: Bonds...]] ...the government had to go into debt so he could buy those OFE bonds and create a paradox. The debt was increasing. I'm not gonna develop it, because you're gonna tell me from the Platform, and they're gonna explain it to you. [[I'd love to.]] But OFE is investing in the stock market. That's the problem. You should know, because you wrote a pretty good book, even though it's flawed... By the way, I can explain to you what I disagree with in your book because I read your book. In fact, generally speaking, she's pretty good. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: Where can you buy it?]] But, sir, in the capital market, the value of the shares may fall even several times. And most of these OFE funds are investing in the stock market, not bonds. If there were bonds, it would be very good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u69	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the civil draft law amending the law on income of local government units (print No 24). I ask the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee of Mr Andrzej Porawski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u70	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For the second time, I have the pleasure of speaking in this Chamber on the same subject. For the first time I spoke on 6 December 2012, on the day of St. Santa Claus, but he was not gracious to the project, because work on the project began quickly and stopped quickly. The project was prepared by the Legislative Initiative Committee, which was set up by members of the statutory authorities of municipalities and powiats. This committee was apolitical. There were representatives of all political parties, as well as non-partisans. The project was supported as part of the collection of signatures by numerous local communities and social organisations, as well as by over 300,000. Citizens and deposited in the Sejm on 27 September 2012 This project has three main thesis, three main parts. It assumes an increase in the share of local government units in the receipts of the State budget from personal income tax, the restoration of the principle of compensation for losses in taxes and local charges caused by statutory changes. This principle used to be, it was differently constructed, because it concerned specific defects, named, while we propose a slightly different option. The project also provides for the introduction of environmental subsidies for municipalities in which protected areas are located, excluded from development, which do not necessarily bring any income to the municipality. The project's assumptions are old because the project was created in 2012. Therefore, we used data from 2011. In the meantime, a little bit has happened, so in my speech tonight, I will also refer to these later events in a few words. We have tried to rely on data resulting from reports by the Ministry of Finance and other documents which were indisputable, e.g. from the impact assessment of the various laws that were adopted and where the impact assessment was. In the event that the impact assessments of the regulation were not or were not given in the impact assessment, the financial consequences were not taken into account, and we know that such laws were also. The main reason for this bill was the fact that, as a result of changes in the personal income tax system, which were introduced after 2005, adopted in 2006 and 2007 and implemented in 2008 and 2009, the revenue of the budgets of local government units fell, as well as the revenue of the central budget, of the state budget, because PIT, half, even slightly more than half, goes to the state budget. Other legislative changes, which are mentioned in this explanatory memorandum, have been imposed on this, and I am not going to mention them here now. I'll just mention it. the famous amendment of the Construction Law, which resulted in a reduction in property tax. Therefore, I give this as an example to show that sometimes legal changes in laws that apparently had nothing to do with local government finances have caused changes in the income system of local government units. These changes were not compensated. I would also like to point out that the state budget has made up for at least part of the changes that resulted from the change in PIT, by increasing VAT from 22 to 23%, raising excise duties, returning to old pension contributions, tax on certain fossils and other transfers. On the other hand, the first three ways of compensating for these losses by the central budget for local governments were an additional cost. Not only were they not compensation because they didn't concern us, but we paid VAT by 1% higher, etc. These thesis are confirmed by the various documents we have drawn up at that time, which we also refer to in our justification. I am not going to mention this to you at the moment, but these are documents and the development of institutions dealing with financial services, e.g. banks, including Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. What are the consequences of these changes we talked about? Then, three years ago, about some of these effects I spoke in conjecture mode because we said the local community said they would be. But they are now - that was three years ago - they happened in the meantime. First of all, as a result of the decline in the income of local government units, the level of investment decreased. It would have decreased even more if it had not, first of all, the loans which the local government had begun to borrow significantly at that time, secondly, the EU funds, which, of course, were, to a significant extent or almost entirely, intended for investment. But these loans, deficit in recent years have already fallen. Even 2014 in terms of property expenditure shows a return to the old level of property expenditure. But, of course, there were positive circumstances, especially the end of the previous period, the previous EU perspective and the settlement of projects, because as a result of the project settlement, many grants that influenced the local authorities from the bottom were received in 2014. This gap in the financial system, which does not decompose the finances of local government, reduces the development capacity of municipalities and powiats, and a significant part of the development takes place in Poland, however, in municipalities and powiats. 44 billion is the level of investment of local government in the last year, the state budget - about 15 plus yet from state-owned special-purpose funds at least a second amount, but in total this level of investment from central sources is lower than from local and regional budgets. If it had not been for EU subsidies and loans, this decrease in the property expenditure of local government units would have been even lower, as I said. There are self-government units that are forced to reduce current expenditure at the moment, which, of course, if it leads to savings, is not bad, but if it leads to a reduction in the level of services provided to residents - it is worse. In the meantime, one more thing has happened, namely that the compensatory system, which was established in 2003. I didn't say that three years ago. In the meantime, this was confirmed by the Constitutional Court's judgment. Therefore, in the near future, we will all have to change the compensatory system in such a way that the judgment of the Constitutional Court is fulfilled. We have reported these issues at the meetings of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, because we have in Poland such a tool through which we can have discussions with the government, and this discussion has been very fruitful for many terms. However, this fruitfulness does not apply to the Ministry of Finance. The work on this project in the previous term of office was de facto blocked by the government's opinion prepared by the Ministry of Finance, an opinion which we did not comment on by politeness, because there were arguments that we would have to comment on rudely, and so far we are trying not to do so. That is why we have decided to use other democratic instruments and we have presented to the High House a self-government project, but a citizens' project, under which we have collected signatures. Members of this term of office, as presidents, mayors, councillors and elders, have helped us to collect signatures in 2012, and I thank you very much, of course, for this. In the final part of the statement of reasons, we note that we do not insist that the strengthening of the local finance system must take place exactly the way it is presented in the project. He's very simple in the project, very specific, so he doesn't bring up a discussion. If it's gone, it's gonna have to increase the share to make it even. But in the final part of the justification, we point out that there are also other possible ways to strengthen local finances. We were hoping that our project, especially since it was passed on to the general public for further work after first reading, could be discussed, including those of others. possible means. If such a radical change in the distribution of PIT were not possible, we pointed out that there were a whole range of other possibilities. You can discuss today's statutory real estate tax reliefs. According to the Ministry of Finance a few years ago This is about PLN 6 billion a year, not counting the benefits that the council is giving, but the statutory ones are between PLN 5 and 6 billion. You can try to talk about other changes that we have already proposed, e.g. amendments to certain provisions in the Teacher's Charter. But we have to make this conversation. We were counting on the fact that since we could not get along in the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, the High House will take on the role of a supporter of local governments, and it has a very important, strong mandate to do so. Therefore, I thank the new Sejm very much for taking up the topic of civic projects in general, including our project, because I am presenting our citizens' project here and I hope that further work on this project, on the local finance system and on the discussion on this issue will be possible. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u71	Thank you very much to the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I ask for the floor of Maria Zuba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! President of the Legislative Initiative Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law amending the law on the income of local government units, a law which proves the state in which the government of the Civic Platform and PSL left the local government. The justification for this project clearly refers to the poverty in local governments in this situation. First of all, let me declare that, as you asked the President, the Law and Justice Club sees the need to work on this law, because it contains a number of valuable provisions, but at the same time it must be refined when it comes to a number of other solutions. As the applicants point out, the policy pursued over the years by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL, which is to transfer tasks from government to local government without adequate funding to finance these tasks, leads to the fact that local governments are currently in a huge crisis. They have survived the financial perspective of acquiring funds from the European Union 2007-2013 only thanks to the determination and necessity of carrying out the tasks required by residents of municipalities, powiats and voivodships. But in order for them to be realized, they had to make a big debt. The result is that today, at the end of 2014, local government debt is almost 1% gross domestic product. You have to look for a solution. This solution should be found here, using the citizens' initiative proposed by the Legislative Initiative Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the municipalities, in general, that the local government is in debt today, is seriously weakening investment initiatives. And there is a new perspective ahead of us, actually this is the second year of the new perspective, the perspective of 2014.2020, and local governments are an important partner in raising funds from the European Union and using them to carry out a number of tasks necessary for the development of their municipalities, their districts and their voivodships. But you need your own contribution. How can we proceed when the municipalities have made the most of their borrowing opportunities? Answers should be sought in the changes to existing laws, among others. The proposal made by the Legislative Initiative Committee is a way of looking for this solution. The solution proposed by the applicants indicates that the share of municipalities, powiats and voivodships in PIT should be increased, with applicants proposing that the increase in this share should vary. For municipalities, they propose an increase in the share by more than 9%, for powiats - about 3%, and for voivodships - by less than 0.43%, in fact. Projectors also propose a new source of income [[♪ The bell ♪]] for municipalities. This is an environmental subsidy. And here... Just one sentence, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u73	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u74	...in their explanatory memorandum, the applicant stresses that in the past there have been practices that the financial consequences were not calculated or the undesignated financing sites, the means of financing. Let me say that this bill also has such a flaw, but I think we're going to talk about it and discuss it on the committee. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u75	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Walda Dzikowski, representative of the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Club a position on the civil project to amend the law on the income of local government units, print No 24. Indeed, on 6 December 2012, dear fellow Andrzej, we debated this issue. Yes, Santa Claus was not very generous at the time, but he wanted to make a serious conversation. I'm afraid there will be no Santa Claus this time and no serious conversation from what I hear. When I was 11 years in the local government and 14 years in the Sejm, I tried to balance the rations of both sides. Then, on behalf of the Platform Club, I requested that this project be referred to the Committee on Finance and Local Government. In my thesis, which I'm about to make, it's not going to change much. At the time, I had the pleasure of being the chairman of the emergency committee who was working on this project. We've suspended this work for several reasons. Firstly, work on the draft law on the change in the income of local government units, in part payments to the state budget, i.e. the so-called. It's janosic. Secondly, the government then started working on the assumptions for the new bill and in connection with these works we suspended these works. We also thought, as I believe Mr Porawski, that it was time to work on a new law on the income of local government units, because reality changed. It was adopted in 2003. [[Ha, ha, ha, mister...]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, this bill assumes - let me repeat - that compensation for lost income by calculation of applicants amounts to about 8 billion. This compensation is to be reduced, among others. to increase the income tax on individuals in the municipal government by around 9% , in the district part about 3% and in the regional part, i.e. voivodship, about 0.4%. This compensation would be reduced to PIT and so-called parts. general subsidies, i.e. the ecological part. This is kind of a new definition for lost income in these protected areas. And there's a compensatory part that's supposed to compensate for the revenue calculated, both of which are an appropriate algorithm. Let me remind you that together we have eliminated this compensatory part that brings about our own income, so that these own revenues are increasingly secure, guaranteeing high financial autonomy and financial mobility of local government units. And now - Madam President, on this 8 billion, because this initiative is talking about 8 billion in 2005 and 2011, please look in the explanatory memorandum, and I will tell you immediately how our dear applicants and my esteemed colleagues have calculated this. As for these 8 billion in 2006, following the introduction of new rules in the Personal Income Tax Act, so-called. PIT, instead of 18%, 30% and 40% 19% introduced and 32%. That's when the biggest shortages were created, about 4.6 billion, for your governments. Let me remind you, 8 billion, 4.6 billion just then. And that was November 2006. In September 2007, a family relief was introduced for your governments, Law and Justice, and there were 2.4 billion. That's $6.8 billion. In our account, as if we were debating in theory, there is only 1 billion, and yours is 6.7 billion. Please read the justification of the designers. That's exactly what it is. This is the structure of who cared and who didn't care about local governments, who gave them tasks and took away the competences and principles of funding, as well as financial revenues. Please read the explanatory note carefully. So that, Commissioner, I do not know where you got this data. Exactly. I'll say it again: 6.8. billions of the 8 billion requested by the citizens' initiative were in your hands. This money did not affect the budgets of municipal authorities. Finally - that is how you smiled, exactly so - I will say: once again I propose a serious debate, but I think it can only be an initiative to take a serious debate on the new law on the income of local government units. You will admit, Mr President, that this is the key This. And that might be the reason why we should lean on the new structure of spending and better spending, as well as the different financial rules. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for another close to the Civic Platform of local self-government units. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u77	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Self-government! There are self-government officials at the gallery. Welcome, everyone. I was honoured to present an opinion on behalf of the Kukiz club15 on the citizens' draft law amending the law on the income of local government units. Ladies and gentlemen, it took three years to end the era of the Seym refrigerator in relation to the relationship between the authorities - the local government. It took 38 long months, changing the governing coalition, setting up a third government to lean on the citizens' bill on the income of local government units. Worse - it took 1140 days for local authorities to prove that in numerous changes to the laws in 2005 and 2011 - in short, these are flowers and PiS, and PO - local governments lost at least PLN 8 billion. You're arguing about numbers, who more, who less... The problem isn't solved. Self-governments still don't have any money. Ladies and gentlemen, today in the Chamber we are all self-government. Today, members of the PO and PSL have the opportunity to rehabilitate themselves after eight years of abandonment and keeping it in the freezer. Members of the Law and Justice have the opportunity to prove that the words of the Prime Minister of the Exposé about listening to citizens, about openness are not clichés, but facts. The purpose of the bill is to partially compensate for the loss of... [[That's what it was.]] ...in the income of local government units in accordance with the constitutional guarantee. Let me just remind you that local governments are waiting for this bill: 16 local governments, 314 local governments, 2478 communes. As Members, we need to help local governments not only recover their money, but finally start acting ahead. Let me just point out that if the increased tax-free amount announced by the Prime Minister comes into force, this will continue to be the problem of local governments. We need to lean on it to get ahead of ourselves, not put out fires. High Izbo, self-governments count on help, hope to improve the finances of local governments, hope that we will manage - attention - to reach a compromise. I'm just pointing out that there was still a compromise here. No one ordered it here, no one threatened it. Local governments have been begging for compromise for years. Nobody listens to them. The proposed amendments to the law do not have any financial implications for the whole public finance sector, but result in them being shifted from the state budget to the local government. After 26 years, I think none of you have any doubt that the gold spent in the local government is spent the most effectively, on the real, real needs of the inhabitants. I don't think I have to convince anyone in the High House on this matter, and I don't have to show it. The question is the amount. Yesterday I was at a meeting, a city council session in Ełk. It was quickly calculated that Ełk was talking about the amount of approx. 5 million PLN. On the question of what can be done with this amount, the President said that there is something to do, what to spend and what to spend. So in order to rule, local governments need not only top-down tasks, but most of all - and first of all, please - money. No more homework time without money. This is the main postulate of all my constituents, my voivodships, the mayors, the presidents, who say, "Don't disturb and don't give jobs without money." It is time to take the local government seriously as a partner who performs the most difficult tasks and often struggles with legal bubbles, which are often dropped by the Sejm and the government. You have to name a thing, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, it is time for dialogue and good practice: nothing without self-government. Therefore, High Izbo, on behalf of the Kukiz club15, I request that the citizens' draft amend the law on the income of local government units be submitted for further work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u79	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u80	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the modern club in relation to printing no. 24: the civil draft law on the amendment of the law on income of local government units. This is a very important moment when this project falls under our agenda. My first question relates to what has been happening to him over the last few years, because in the explanatory memorandum we find data that refer to 2011. There is a lack of fresh data, which is why it will be very difficult to work on this project at the moment. I have here a grudge against the government of the Civic Platform and the PSL. You weren't sensitive to citizens' billings. Since it was not comfortable for you, this project was so long laid down, was postponed, and unfortunately things in local governments were waiting to be settled. Also an important issue in the case of the process of the project is announced by the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the proposals to increase the tax-free amount. Consider that it will not make no difference to local governments. That is why we need to get this project to work in committees as soon as possible, as we request. As for intent, we agree with the applicants. I myself represent the local government of Opole, where we have this ability that we can do three more out of every dollar we operate with EU money. Unfortunately, over the years, there has been a process in which increasing tasks and responsibilities imposed by the government on local government units did not involve influence and various types of subsidies. This is particularly important in the context of protected natural areas, such as Natura 2000 sites. In the justification of the applicants we find a number of calculations that relate to data that need to be redefined. That is why we are counting on intensive work in the local government committee and unlocking this system, in which the revenue of the local government is systematically reduced and the tasks increased. As a Members' Club We also want to draw attention to the fact that local government units must have such a tool that all kinds of changes that are taking place in the legislation that we are proceding here will not result in the loss of their income. Therefore, it is important that we rethink what was just said from this speaker, about the right approach to the law that defines the entire revenue of municipalities. That is why we also hope that this project will have its long process in committee, and we fully support the intentions of the applicants. Thank you very kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u81	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Present Local Governmenters! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I have the honour to present our position on the citizens' draft law amending the law on the income of local government units, contained in print No 24. High Seym! The project, which we are currently investigating, was introduced in the previous term of the Sejm by a group of local government officials from the Association of Polish Cities, which is represented by Mr Andrzej Porawski, present here. At that time, the local government proposed three mechanisms for changing the financing of the local government: firstly, increasing the participation of local authorities in the PIT tax, secondly, introducing environmental subsidies, thirdly, restoring the principle of compensation for losses in taxes and local charges. Although it was created in 2012, it is still current and local governments should have more resources, as it is in the commune, the county, the voivodship which is best known for what to use the symbolic zloty. Let us note that the numerous investments carried out by local governments improve the quality of life of citizens and modernise our country. It should be borne in mind that local authorities also need resources for their own contribution to European investments. Personally then I became involved in this project, but also too small was the support of the Polish People's Party for the solutions contained in it. Ensuring adequate financing of the tasks carried out by the local government belongs to the state budget, and there is an increasing number of them. Unfortunately, that's when the project was frozen in the subcommittee. Dear self-government people, which I also belong to, I know perfectly well how important the local government plays in Poland today. It is the backbone of a democracy that has not been embezzled, and the inhabitants exercise their control over it, not allowing power to make bad decisions. And it's the locals who know if someone's a good mate, mayor, an old man or not. I mentioned self-government as the basis of democracy. There's a reason. I would like to appeal to the politicians of Law and Justice to abandon the ideas of composing and tampering with the shortening of the term of office of local governments. There's no need for that. Returning to a civil project which, in addition to increasing the participation of local authorities in the PIT tax, introduces an environmental subsidy - this subsidy is particularly important for us. I would like to remind you that on 30 January 2013 we submitted a project which guaranteed municipalities with limited opportunities to develop equalisation of losses in their income. Many municipalities, where most of the areas occupy protection areas, such as national parks or Natura 2000 sites, hoped that the budget would provide support. Unfortunately, the project effectively blocked the then Minister of Finance. What has not been successful in the previous term, we will try to implement and support in the present. Finally, we should pay attention to the amounts we are discussing today. Using the data contained in the explanatory memorandum - this is about PLN 8 billion. Of course, this is an estimated amount, because the calculations relate to 2011. However, around 2 billion will return to the state budget in the form of VAT. This amount has been reliably estimated by local authorities on the basis of new outsourced tasks for which no budget support has been foreseen. It may seem astronomical, but with the current electoral commitments of the new government, it is not a high amount. High Seym! As in 2012, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party is now in favour of further work on the project in committee, with the hope that this time we will develop solutions that benefit both the local government and the state budget. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[This should have been sooner...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs Maria Zuba took the floor to ask the question. I'm setting time for questioning -- two minutes. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have such a brief question for the president, the representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee. In your opinion to this project, you write that the real introduction of this project does not give rise to the need to amend other laws. At the same time, in your speech today, you suggested that changes should be made to the Teacher's Charter. So let me see: To what extent would this change be expected by you and what effect would it have on the local government, of course, on what additional income? Another thing. Why did the state not bother to calculate what tasks should be abandoned at national level when preparing this project? Because I would like to point out that these saved funds - we believe that they were made in a reprehensible way - are not really on bank accounts. They are used in other activities of the government, from which the government should give up so that it can, as you said, move them to the local government. I'm talking about it because I'm aware that it's not just a shift. Here, changes will be needed in subsequent laws so that these funds can be generated, which can now be transferred to the local government. Do you agree with the committee's representative on this matter, or do you have another vision? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u85	Thank you very much. Another vote was made by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! I actually have one question. I would like to know and I would ask for a written reply in connection with the introduction of the tax-free amount that you are talking about in the election campaign. How do you want to increase the revenue of local governments? Do you have any idea of this except for the election promises? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u87	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. Minister Hanna Majszczyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is not yet a government position for this project, it is in the process of developing, so for the time being these are observations and information concerning this project from the level of the Minister of Finance. As the applicant's representative himself noted, the project is from a few years ago. Furthermore, the applicant himself also stresses that, in the meantime, from the moment the project was prepared, until today, when it is being debated by the High House, some changes have actually taken place, which in principle must be taken into account when assessing this project. And we'd like to draw attention to that, too. First of all, the point to be pointed out in the context also of what the applicant's representative stressed is also the fact that, in the meantime, since the project was addressed to the Sejm of the previous term, we already have a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, also a signaling order of the Tribunal, which indicates the need to make certain modifications in the income law of local government units, although not in the part that the High House is debating today, which is on the revenue side, but in the part of the correction and equalisation system, which was also mentioned here. However, these two issues are very connected and we believe that the work on this project that the High House has launched today should also take into account these events and the situations that have taken place so far. The work on changes in the correction and equalisation system and these signals and comments of the Constitutional Tribunal in the judgment concerning voivodships indicate among others. that, in particular as regards voivodships, current sources of funding may lead to certain distortions in the implementation of income, and thus in the fulfilment of the obligations imposed by the laws of certain local government units, because the revenues of these units - I mean the voivodship - are based primarily on participation in CIT as regards corporate income tax. Therefore, with regard to the project, which is the subject of the High House's deliberations here today after a few years, it must also be noted that such a construction of this law, i.e. simply proposing and increasing the shares in PIT for individual local government units, is primarily establishing the existing financing system, which is already directly translated into other elements of the Act on the income of local government units, even more establishing the current correction and equalisation system, as these raised shares will further differentiate revenue among local government units, which will translate directly, of course, under the current system, which is still in force, which will translate accordingly into differences which will arise, and the amounts which in this level equalisation system would have to be transferred by the contributors to other entities in order to fill this imbalance. In addition, due to the passage of time, this project does not refer to certain changes, including legislative changes, which took place in another field, namely the law adopted by the High Parliament in 2015 amending the Municipal Government Act and certain other laws. This law made changes which, as a result of the justification for this project, resulted in the transfer of additional funds or the leaving of additional resources in local governments for the amount of over PLN 300 million. This also changes this balance of effects, which would have to be taken into account when working on this law in Parliament. Of course, this must also be imposed on all of this, because this project, which was mentioned during its presentation by the applicant's representative, consists of three parts... One is about increasing the share of personal income tax, but there is also the part that is simply talking about compensating local governments for any changes that are made and which can lead to any negative effects on the income side. And of course, all of this must be collided with reforms that are planned to be carried out and which, together with their announcement, have already been presented in a general way, and which also indicate that they will contribute to revenue growth, including in local governments. Therefore, the whole analysis of this project and the impact assessment presented in this project would require a fresh look at how it is balancing, whether it is really... Because in this project, referring to its current content, namely from three years ago, it is difficult to see an analysis on the other side, which changes could somehow neutralise or neutralise the negative effects that the applicants presented here. And, of course, environmental subsidies. In this respect, this analysis, which is carried out on the basis of the assumptions set out today in this project, also calls for such reflection that today this project does not apply to other systems which cause those protected areas or other areas in which the applicants' justification for the loss of income or the lack of the possibility of developing these units of local government, but on the other hand, the systems introduced allow for a more preferential use of different measures in such entities. Of course, I am not saying that it is balancing or how it is balancing, but certainly, as regards the calculated amounts, i.e. the 200 PLN per hectare of protected land, there is also no such analysis as this amount has been calculated. That, too, would be worth paying attention to. Certainly the only, perhaps not the only, but important issue that needs to be taken into account concerns the determination, valuation of weights, counting of weights that have been presented in this project by applicants to adequately compensate for losses, as the applicants say, in relation to protected areas. In this project, different weights are applied depending on the protected area. Others are for national parks, others for areas where birds are protected. This, of course, requires a point of reference from the national level, namely objective statistical data, which would be possible to draw for such calculations. We tried to obtain information, such information at national level, generally available, so that these algorithms could be widely used and objectively used. Today, access to such data is difficult. There is no single set of data that would allow you to reach these surfaces, calculated and unambiguous, so that you can substitute them to those algorithms that applicants present, and simply calculate the amounts, even assuming such meters or the underlying amounts that have been presented in this project. There's one more thing, maybe the last one. I take into account the arguments put forward here, which the applicant's representative argued, that the principle of compensation, which was still in place in the early 2000s, had been abolished. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum, and indeed this was the case, this was the case, but it did refer to certain specific local government units, not mentioned by name in those provisions. In view of the subject matter and subject matter of the compensation, this was not the case for all entities. Meanwhile, as compensation for these lost income... I understand that this compensation would apply to everyone, it is a general provision. It is not known how this would involve a specific individual and specific tasks or defects that would be diagnosed in such an individual. And perhaps the last point I would like to draw attention to here is also the issue that has already been raised in all the speeches made by your Members. It is also associated with the time when the project was developed, and the present moment. As of today, given the first part of the bill, i.e. the increase in these shares in PIT, the effects are no longer 8 billion, but almost 12 billion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Andrzej Porawski, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Allow me first of all to thank the Minister for his constructive approach to the subject, because the arguments she put forward by the Minister are important. They need to be considered especially because of this passage of time. Notabene, because we were positively surprised by the invitation to the Sejm in the first place among those who submitted civic projects, so we did not have time since Friday last week to correct the numbers we were using. It's obvious they're out of date today. That's what I was talking about in my speech. Thank you very much, Members, for wanting to work on this project. He will really require work, because he cannot be introduced, we realize that, exactly in the shape in which he was presented. Our intention at the time was to make it a simple project, so that it would be possible for a citizen to sign up for this project, to say what we mean, that we were a little lost, and that is why we want it to return exactly this much. That was the argument, but it could come back in different forms. That's what I was talking about. I was pointing out that there's a possibility that other laws could be revised. Madame, I must tell you that we have been contesting the Teacher's Charter for some time, but we do not want to delete it or revolutionize it. On the other hand, such a slogan that we have been using for several years is the issue of ordering the matter of leave for health correction, because today they are not organized and are repeatedly used in a way that is not in accordance with intent, and we could spend this money better, also for education, because it is not said that we would like to spend it on roads, although we also need to spend it there. On the other hand, we would like to spend this money better, which is why I thank you for all the suggestions that have been made for specific work in specific parts of the public finance supply system in their decentralised part. The other laws I mentioned here were only exemplary, in the explanatory memorandum we may show more, but I respect the time of your Members and because I am convinced that we will be working on this, I have left the details for meetings. [[On the committee.]] For example, for meetings in committee, if you call such a committee, and it seems so. Speaking of which, the interest differences mentioned by the Member are proportional, in the same proportion, only because the municipalities are 38% today, in the same proportion there were eight or nine, the districts today have 10%. and therefore in the same proportion three came out for them. Voivodships have the least, because voivodships are financed mainly by CIT, which is why for voivodships it looked so weak. On the other hand, our intention was to make it proportionate. There's one more thing I'd like to say. I am not here to speak in the political debates in this Chamber, and I am not going to take it, but I would like to stress that when there was a vote in the Sejm on these changes that Mr Dzikowski spoke about, all the parties voted for them. It's not like you can blame a particular party like this. All the parties voted and we have the results of these votes, so we cannot join the votes that would blame someone. That's what we're saying, and we're suggesting we try and fix it. Therefore, of course - at the end - we are ready to cooperate. In the meantime, we're a little self-employed. We are already 25 years old, it is such an age that we have some experience, so thank you very much for this favourable atmosphere and I declare that we are ready to cooperate with the High Chamber to the extent necessary. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u91	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the citizens' draft law amending the law on the income of local government units, contained in print No 24, to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't see the objection. I can't hear it. We proceed to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (print No 36). I would like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Kruk to provide the reasons for the draft resolution. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm is a minor amendment dictated by the need to amend the maximum number of resolutions on the establishment of a person or events in respect of which the Committee on Culture and Media may request the adoption of the Sejm. Art. 33a Rules of Procedure of the Sejm in paragraph. 3 provides that the committee may request the adoption of a maximum of three projects referred to in paragraph. 1, i.e. about the establishment of a person or event of a given year. The Seym legislative practice, the practice of working in the Committee on Culture and Media shows that draft resolutions are coming to commemorate our national heroes and the most important events in Poland's history. And so on. The High Chamber established the year 2014 as St. Jan of Dukla, Oskar Kolberg and Jan Karski. Many applications from different backgrounds had to be rejected, including for example. the proposal to establish the patronage of 2014 as the Year of the Family, the Year of Stefan Żeromski, the Year of Stanisław Dygat, the Legions of Poland and Józef Chełmoński. 2015 The High Chamber decided to establish St. John Paul II, Jan Długosz and the Polish Theatre on the 250th anniversary of the National Theatre. We had to reject proposals such as establishing 2015 as the Year of Witkiewicz, the Year of Hetman Stefan Czarniecki, the Year of Kazimierz Przewy-Tetmajer, Father Jan Twardowski and Tadeusz Kantor. Applicants believe that the submission of such draft resolutions in the High House is a good example of the implementation of historical policy in the field of building national awareness, promoting our culture and history. In order to meet the expectations of the patrons' environments, but not to lead to the depreciation of the institution, we propose an extension of the number of resolutions to which the Committee on Culture and Media may request their adoption to a maximum of five projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, joined the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u94	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, we support amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm tabled by a group of Members of the applicants in print No 36. The amendment concerns the new wording of the Article. Article 33a (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: The proposed change does not have negative financial consequences, it gives the opportunity to commemorate our national heroes and the most important historical events of our country. We support the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure, which gives the possibility for the Committee on Culture and Media to request that no more than five draft resolutions be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u95	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Barbara Bartus will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: Am I the second?]] [[Voice from the room: You're not anymore.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u96	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour to present the position of my Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! "We need to shape civil attitudes, we need to shape patriotic attitudes" said Dr. Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Belvedere, a few days ago, to the collection of outstanding historians, representatives of various institutions at a meeting inaugurating work on the development of a historical policy strategy. The President stressed that historical policy is for building the potential of the state, Europe is and will be a Europe of national states, so we too must shape attitudes so that we, as a society, as a state, are as strong as possible. The problem of historical policy is therefore becoming a fundamental problem today. Memory is the power of the state. The draft resolution presented by Mrs Elżbieta Rauk on behalf of the applicants fits as much as possible into the building of this historical policy. Each year abounds in many important anniversaries of our history, or anniversaries related to outstanding people. 2016 is, among others, the 1050th anniversary of Poland's baptism, but also in 2016 we will celebrate exceptional anniversaries related to Henryk Sienkiewicz. In May, it's going to be 170. the anniversary of his birthday, and in November the 100th anniversary of his death. The applicant also mentioned important dates from previous years, people, important events, which should be underlined by the Polish Sejm, but because of the limit they had to be rejected so that only the three most important events could be selected. Today we have a draft resolution which increases this limit of the possibility of adopting such resolutions from three to five, because we cannot go to extremes. These limits should be established and it seems that this limit of five resolutions will in no way depreciate these five important events, the persons, the five resolutions to be adopted. At the same time, it will allow for a greater commemoration of these most important people, events, the most important dates. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare that we support this project as much as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u97	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Polish Modern Club...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u98	The Modern Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u99	Messenger, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Of course, the Modern Club supports the draft amendment of the rules. We believe that our culture should be supported as much as possible, not just history, but culture above all, because we have to be proud of it. However, I would like to point out one thing that 2016 is a special year for all of us, because in 2016 Wrocław will be the European Capital of Culture. We should really focus on this, because the idea that came about giving cities this title, the title of the European Capital of Culture, was born to integrate Europeans. In the current geopolitical, international situation, we should focus as much on the European Capital of Culture as possible and be proud that Wrocław will be the capital next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u101	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, please take the floor of Mrs Urszula Pasławska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u102	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Polish People's Party Club welcomes the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which aims to increase the limits of resolutions presented by the Committee on Culture and Media. Since we do indeed note that these proposals are increasing each year, in connection with historical policy as well as the promotion of culture, the promotion of people connected with culture and history and historical events, it seems that the proposal for this regulation to be amended on this issue is as legitimate as possible. We also hope that all parliamentary clubs will be able to submit proposals and that each parliamentary club's application will be respected and analysed with equal attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u103	Thank you very much, Member. Since none of your Members have signed up to ask questions, the list of Members voted in has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution without referring to the committee. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to second reading. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? No one's checking in. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in the voting block. High Izbo! I'm ordering an adjournment until noon. 17. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 26 hours 17 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the Individual Income Tax Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on personal income tax (prints No 22 and 38). I ask Mr Luke Schreiber to present a report to the committee. [[Voice from the Chamber: No rapporteur.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Public Finance Commission has examined the Parliamentary bill amending the Personal Income Tax Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The bill aims to counter the pathologies of exceptionally high compensation and compensation for the prohibition of competition for members of the company's board of directors with the participation of the State Treasury. The Committee on Public Finance has examined the project very carefully, with a comprehensive discussion on it. Seven amendments were tabled during the committee's work and all these amendments were accepted. I'll pay attention to a few of them. The main tax rate increased from 65 to 70% and the period of notice was reduced from 12 to 6 months. The whole draft law was adopted by 20 votes in favour, with no votes against and 13 abstentions. As rapporteur for the committee, I would like to thank everyone very warmly for the work on the bill and for its smooth examination. The Committee on Public Finances requests that this project be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u105	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Wojciech Jasiński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft was adopted with the advantage that the rapporteur wanted to say. The aim of this law is to limit excessive compensation payments and compensation in the case of non-compete contracts. We realize that the timing, the time that was chasing us, made it have to be done hastily. But one thing has to be said: the law applies to all large companies of the Treasury. Please accept this assurance and be sure of it. There have been concerns. Of course, doubts can always be raised, but we realize that those concerned, those who lose through this bill, will complain to the Constitutional Court. Few of this, we know, that they will do this for the money of the Treasury companies, through lawyers who are keenly interested in it. There are many voices about the need to improve this bill, to make it better, to discuss the overall salary. I have no doubt that there is at least a large part of these voices behind wanting to cut this bill, and that must be said clearly. It shouldn't be that we're not going back to this bill, but if we come back, we're going to talk about what we want to do perfect again, what we want to do. Let's start by signaling that we will reduce excessive payments in large companies of the State Treasury. We're an open club for further suggestions. We are aware that improvements must be made in this respect, but this improvement must also be done through corporate supervision. Not everything can be sanctioned by a recipe. Normal practice must also be introduced, which will indicate that some money is sufficient and that it is too big. It is known that there is a market that managers, especially the best, would like to make a lot of money, but also let's not fool ourselves - not only do the best ones benefit from it. Managers of different levels benefit, but also different others who should not necessarily deserve it. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare my support for the bill. Law and Justice will vote in favour of it. I also call for its support by other clubs and refrain, if possible, from reporting excessive amounts of amendments. I have no doubt that there are some who are waiting to give even a pretext for the authorities to consider this law invalid. Let's not make it look like it's a pretext. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u107	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u108	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club vis-à-vis the draft law on the amendment of the Act on income tax on individuals, the Act, or, in fact, the direction of the Act is very important, as to what, I think, a cross-party agreement. I present the position of the Civic Platform, which is on this side of the direction of change, so we want these changes, we want checks not to be so high. For many, many years these checks were largely high. I mentioned earlier the president of Orlen, who, after the PiS government, was cancelled and whose briefing was a huge amount of money. [[A voice from the hall: We will not give so much to yours.]] Mr President, you were the treasure minister at the time, so that you yourself can fight at the heart of this matter. On the other hand, the most important thing is that the work of the Committee on Public Finance has not been achieved, i.e. 7 amendments have been tabled. These amendments show that the project was prepared very quickly, and I would not like to say that on the knee, but it was possible to work on it longer, and above all it would be possible to ask the Treasury Minister, because it is in his competence that the Treasury companies remain, including managers, board members, presidents employed in these companies, that is in his competence and he could find easier solutions that would not raise any legal doubts. On the other hand, today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, doubts were not resolved. This causes the risk that this law may be non-constitutional and we want amendments, we want these solutions to be complete and not only in a law that can lead to a situation that will be challenged to the Constitutional Court. Let's not create laws that are doomed to be unconstitutional. And that is what I ask the High House to do, and I ask the Members of the governing coalition, because we are to create a good law, not a law from which we will then explain ourselves to the Constitutional Tribunal. To sum up, the amendments that have been tabled, as well as the entire law, are risky today and can indeed be such a situation that the law and the amendments will be unconstitutional. This is a big problem today, and the point is to solve this matter completely and completely, and not just in a way that introduces the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u109	Thank you, sir. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I would like to inform you that we will support this bill because we believe that the law is right and restores natural order. It cannot be that in Poland there are persons who become board members or members of supervisory boards of companies of the State Treasury for several, several or several dozen days only to take high checks or to whom, under the pretext of prohibition of competition, millionaire checks are paid. We do not agree with this and we believe that this amount above the minimum compensation should be taxed at least 70% tax. If it weren't for the fact that in Poland the penalty tax is 75% and simply in accordance with the Constitution it is not possible to adopt a higher tax, we would argue for an even higher tax on these parts of the checks. [[Applause]] Viktor Orbán introduced 90% tax in Hungary and somehow the world did not fail, and it restored the rule of law and justice of citizens. We are taking a good step in the right direction and we are restoring the rule of law in the form of a 70% tax on this part of the check, on the part of the wrongly collected wages which exceeds the value of the minimum check which belongs to everyone, and we are not questioning that it should normally be taxed in accordance with the normal rules on PIT. At the same time, we would like to point out that there is a danger that not all companies in which the Treasury dominates will be covered by this law. Unfortunately, we have doubts that companies in which the Treasury does not have 50% but it has control, they can avoid our records today, they can circumvent this bill, because the law specifies, it speaks of a majority of votes at the general assembly. Nevertheless, it is a step in the right direction and all parliamentary clubs that are in favour of an increased debate, for increased constitutional control, for checking whether it can be done better, more precisely, whether expert opinions, expert opinions can be established, are doing so in order not to make it to 30 November and that the Act cannot enter into force from 1 January 2016. We're not gonna get caught on this, and we're gonna support this bill. On behalf of the club, I declare that we will vote in favour and accept all the amendments tabled by the Sejm committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u111	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u112	First of all, I would like to tell Mr Wójcikowski that it is not a matter of passionless dragging a case to go beyond November, but it is about creating in Poland... [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] ...good law and effective law. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Invariably, we think that we are dealing with pathologies that need to be combated when it comes to salaries, bonuses and checks in companies of the Treasury. Premiums in non-profit companies, horrendously high checks, too long periods of prohibition of competition are on the agenda and as parliamentarians we must change that. We have to change that, but effectively. I would like to stress once again that, unfortunately, most parliamentarians have not been in this room since yesterday, and neither the PiS nor the PO have tried to fight this phenomenon specifically for years. An example can be the nude bonuses, sute checks paid to company presidents nominated by PiS, LPR and Self-Defense in 2008, i.e. many, many years ago. We still believe that in state companies it is worth to adopt the same standards as in private companies, i.e. 3 months notice periods and no longer than 12 months of non-compete periods. For us, introducing a ban for longer periods in the case of companies of the State Treasury is an attempt to enable the outgoing member of the board of directors to live at the expense of the taxpayer. Indeed, such appalling practices must be combated. Unfortunately, in our view, the proposed law does not solve these problems in any way and the last hours of this situation have not changed. We repeat the alarm: this bill may be completely ineffective, because management contracts can be signed in net amounts. If the contract determines the amount that the outgoing manager will receive, then the employer will simply pay the amount of tax. Such a situation will put the state companies at risk of additional costs of 70% tax. We do not fully understand why in such an important matter with full power the Law and Justice did not ensure that appropriate expertise was provided in time. We understand that the bill must be passed by the end of November, otherwise the principle of decent legislation will be broken, but this cannot be the only argument for pushing a law that is ineffective, creating legal gaps or causing constitutional doubts. Since the applicant has failed to provide adequate expertise as to whether the amendments introduced by the law comply with the Constitution, there is a risk that, in the event of such non-compliance, the state budget will be exposed to the payment of considerable compensation and to the payment of court costs. We know that there are legal acts that have already analysed a similar situation, but these analyses are not precise from the point of view of this particular case. We can also see that the scope of services subject to a high tax is too narrowly defined. The draft law states that a high 70% tax will be covered by employment contracts or management services contracts. What if the agreement talks about another form of cooperation, e.g. running a business? We are pleased that one of the amendments clarifies who will be responsible for charging and collecting tax, because the aim of this House is to reduce red tape and simplify the tax system and not to multiply problems. In conclusion, as a club Modern we cannot support the proposed solution because it is a draft law that is underdeveloped, unsolved, introducing numerous shortcomings and legal gaps. We are in favour of eliminating pathology in companies of the State Treasury, but the proposed law unfortunately does not provide this, and moreover, in the current wording it may expose the State Treasury to additional costs. Therefore, as a club, we will support improvements to the document, but with the vote on the whole we will have to abstain. The law, in our opinion, must be effective, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not to create an appearance of change. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u113	Thank you, Member. Ms Genowef Tokarska, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I will present my position on the report of the Committee on Public Finance on the bill amending the Act on personal income tax, prints No 22 and 38. The opinion of my club following the work on the project in the Committee on Public Finance remains essentially unchanged. We will not deny the proposed changes, given above all the overarching objective of the principle of social justification, the principle of social equality. The draft law aims to counter the pathologies of granting high compensation and compensation for the prohibition of competition to members of the boards of companies with the participation of the State Treasury. The discussion of the project in the Committee on Public Finance has really only highlighted the many doubts raised at first reading. The amendments tabled by the PIS clarify certain wordings and increase the tax rate from 65% to 70%. However, the question remains unanswered: Is the project in line with the Constitution if it lays down different tax rules for different forms of ownership? What tax rules will be in companies without a majority share of the State Treasury, e.g. 30% ? Will there not be even greater costs after the introduction of this higher tax scale, without, of course, the intention of the law itself? Will there not be appeals of the persons concerned and consequently compensation for the adoption of the wrong law? Questions and doubts have arisen a great deal. The bill was not and is still not properly prepared. The designers do not have any written legal opinion and for lack of time they have refused to obtain such opinions and expertise. Mrs Masłowska, in her comment on my statement this morning, stated that there were similar practices during the previous term of office. I admit there were some accelerations, I confirm this fact, but in my parliamentary work - perhaps one term it is not enough - it has never happened that an important tax project could be adopted by the High House within one day, to what I will repeat, without a basic justification, without an opinion of anyone, without submission of a financial calculation and even without determining the magnitude of the problem. The project was prepared without maintaining good legislation practice, very carelessly, quickly. Only with regard to the goal none of us have doubts - it is socially justified. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u115	Thank you, Member. Let's get to the questions. If any of you wanna sign up, you're welcome. I'll close the list after the second question. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u116	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Listening to this debate and to the arguments on the project, it seems to me that it is a very noble gesture of law and justice, aimed at reducing high clearances. But let's tell the Poles what the intention really is. It is a quick and low-cost acquisition of posts on the boards of State Treasury companies. Hence my question to the applicants. Will the next stage of this process be to reduce the minimum competition requirements for the boards of these companies so that, like the Ministry of Defence, 20-year-olds and others without competence can sit there? Here's my question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for those who have tabled an amendment that has been voted by majority of law and justice. Today, before noon, we had the opportunity to listen to Mr Jasinski, who said that the tax was 65% has been established because 75% is a tax on undisclosed income, and it would therefore not be good for these rates to be very close. So after a few hours, the committee raises the rate of this tax to 70%. I'm scared what would happen if there was another committee meeting tomorrow, maybe it would be 74.9%. It is not done that in literally a few moments income tax rates change. This is too serious a matter and indeed objections to the procedure of this law are justified. It doesn't seem like it should be. Therefore, the question is to you. Why did you raise this rate from 65% to 70% in the amendment? The more that an hour or two earlier, you were at 65%. ? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the applicant, although I think we all agree on the direction here. Do you have any concrete calculations as to how much they really will save due to the proposed changes in the Treasury company? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. I'm sorry, Modern. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: It's a matter of time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a little embarrassed, because on the one hand we absolutely see the need to reduce pathology in companies of the Treasury. It cannot be that only because someone is a colleague of the person determining the allocation, the division of positions, receives some totally undue remuneration, which is in addition contrary to market practice. Such conduct must certainly be stigmatized and action should be taken to eliminate such behaviour. On the other hand, I personally see the need to act in such a way that the law that we are making is good, just good, that it should not be cared for, that it should work effectively and not create another gap through which further funds will flow. And I have the impression that this project makes it look really nice, and it looks really nice, and it doesn't really bring much in practice. That's why I'd like to ask you two questions. If the contract contains other than the statutory definition of management services, then the law, i.e. this tax, will apply [[♪ The bell ♪]] That person or not? And second question. If someone in the contract has 1 million net and tax costs on the company's side, will he get this million, or will this amount change as a result of the vote of this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u123	Thank you, Mr Moderne. Please take the floor of Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Member of the applicant. I would like to ask: When were these management contracts introduced, on the basis of which millions of checks are paid? Are these briefings... Because here was an accusation from a Member who has recently been in the Sejm and said that such checks were paid during the time of the rule of law and justice. Is it really 1 million, 1300 thousand, 1700 thousand? Did any managers who managed companies in the times of the rule of law and justice receive checks? And I have a question for you, too. Perhaps the Member remembers the way in which the law abolishing the so-called law was amended. The chimney, i.e. the upper reduction of income, which coalition made such changes, and how it was said that it was necessary to find great managers from the market, and then - I have a question - what were the great family-related managers who worked in parliamentary offices, who were often unqualified to go to State Treasury companies? And I also have a question about how the rules of the election were changed even during the time of Minister Grad, when Minister Grad, in principle, single-membered various persons to the companies of the Treasury, to the boards and to the supervisory boards. So I have a question: [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, in the days of Law and Justice, the presidents worked for decent money, but they didn't take two, three million or maybe bigger briefings, as it is now? And in the days of Law and Justice, were 100 thousand checks and salaries as they were now classified? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u125	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Let's move on to the answers. Please take the floor of Minister Konrad Raczkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. He's quitting? Good. In that case, I would ask the floor of Mr Łukasz Schreiber, the rapporteur of the committee. [[Voice from the room: If there isn't, we vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The questions that have been asked are questions more to the applicant than to me. But I'm only going to say one thing and one thing only briefly. They are falling on the part of some Members, especially the Modern one, which is very active, and the PSL, saying that this has never happened. But the bill has already been adopted in this Parliament in one day, in cases where such haste was completely unjustified. This time this haste, if one can say so, whether this acceleration of the work results from the fact that it is necessary to end the mode of work on this law by 30 November so that it can enter into force from 1 January. The rest of the questions, I think, should be answered appropriately by the Members of the applicant. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u127	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, the representative of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u128	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Several questions were addressed to me as a representative of Members of the applicants. And the first question was whether we really cared about solving the problem or whether we only care about stools. Well, sir, don't measure the others with your measure, [[Applause]] It's just, it's okay. And that's all I'd ask of you. We're... [[Voice from the room: On what basis do you say this?]] ...away from that approach. We are aware of the rank of the problem, the rank of the case. We are aware of the material situation, the social situation of many families, and it is simply that it directs us, some elementary considerations concerning and rationality, and social justice. And nothing else. Second thing. Why 70% ? Do you think it's too much? That is what I would like you to say, Mr President, to those who have been directing this question to me - to those who maybe are listening to us right now and who do not have for children even basic food products. Such malnourished Polish children are over a million. If you think it's too much, we've increased by 5%. Tell that to those who simply don't have normal everyday living needs. We think it's a line that should... We believe that every step in this direction is simply dictated by the need, is justified. And the fact that we've changed in a short time is a fact, but that's just the way it is here to discuss this case. We discussed this, we found this solution together, and that's why we tightened up these criteria, because it's not just the 70%. , but as you have noticed, we have also shortened this period to six months of the year when the revenue generated during that period is such a limit over which the revenue will be subject to a higher tax rate. One of you also said he wanted a good law so he couldn't be cared for. We all want to do this, too, and we do what is possible at a given time, but I do not recall that your club on the finance committee that had its meeting today, apart from criticism, has tabled a specific amendment or proposal, and that is what we expected. It was simply our will to work with you on concrete solutions and, apart from general criticism, nothing like this has happened on your part. The Act refers to a contract of employment and a contract on management services. So if the management service is a different service than the management service, I think it will fit in the first part of the sentence where the employment contract is mentioned. If it is not for management services, it is for work, so if this activity does not qualify for management service, it can be eligible only and exclusively for the employment contract. What savings do we expect? According to our estimates it will amount from a few to several million zlotys, and this is already very much, enough to simply cover basic social needs or other Poles. Treasury companies. Were there such situations when such large checks were paid under the rule of law and justice? I think that Mr Suski, when he asked a rhetorical question, gave a clear answer to this question. I repeat: there haven't been so many million-dollar wages and multimillion-dollar briefings that have taken place lately. Indeed, the chimney bill was also lifted instantly under the cover of the night. Therefore, we are not doing any breach here, which would pose a threat to respect for the law, the rule of law in Poland. That's what needs to be done. There's such an urgent situation. Did you know that yesterday, in one of the very serious companies, the board of directors was called off and a new one was appointed just to avoid the effects of this law, in order to escape it. That is why we are very in a hurry to do so, because we simply want to prevent unjustified draining of money from companies of the Treasury in just this way. That's all I have to say about questions. If I haven't taken anything into account, just say it again. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u129	Thank you, Member. [[Excuse me...]] Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska submitted a corrigendum. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to straighten out some of the issues that have been put here in the courtroom in the meantime. As far as bonuses that were not received are concerned, I will clarify my statement. For example, the former presidents of Orlen from 2004-2007, leaving the company, received PLN 1.5 million of check-in according to my knowledge. One of them was personally associated with the Deputy Minister of State Treasury. As regards clarification, clarification of the provisions, as Mrs Masłowska also referred to, the fact that the agreement will deal with issues other than the management service contract will not make it a job contract, because it may be a non-management contract. As a result, it is as if this law will not resolve this issue unambiguously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u131	Thank you, Member. In the mode of correcting Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To the Member. Madam President, I would like to appeal that if you listen to the opposition, even as few as it is Modern, I would ask you to listen to it with understanding. Well, I absolutely didn't say that the rate was 70%. it is too high, I just thought that if you change your tax rates by 5% within the hour and do it in a completely ad hoc way, it is a surprise to me, all the more so that an hour earlier you proposed 65%. I'm not saying she's too tall, I just think she's close to 70%. Up to 75% of the tax on unjustified and undisclosed income is indeed unfortunate. That was the point of my speech. There's one more thing. We're in Parliament for the first time. 28 Members sit on these benches for the first time and I assure you that we have not yet taken part in the division of spoils. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u133	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Moderna, is still being corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam, one question. If I were among those in these companies, today I would change my contracts net worth. Hence my question: If someone has saved an example of PLN 1 million net, will this law change in any way what he will get? I don't think so. On the other hand, the costs associated with the implementation of this law will be borne by the company, i.e. if we have net contracts, this law does not change anything at all, and in addition it causes the tax costs of the companies to increase, so we do not achieve this basic effect, which would be like to take away from those who receive [[♪ The bell ♪]] undue remuneration, of that part, as indicated in the draft. And in this respect, It is a law which results in the Sejm voting again something that will be celebrated in a very simple way. Since we're able to say this here, every tax advisor will do exactly the same thing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u135	Thank you. Please respond to the applicant's representative, Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u136	High Izbo! Following the speech by Mr Roscoe on 70% Maybe my interpretation of your question has gone too far. I took it that way, it's not about changing in a short time, it's about changing from 65 to 70%. So there's an increase. As far as this change is concerned, of course. difference between 65 and 70% It's not that big, because if it were a change from 30 to 70%, I think we'd have to debate it a little longer. There is not such a significant change here, which would prevent us from taking advantage of such opportunities. On the other hand, with regard to remuneration paid and contracts concluded for the payment of remuneration in net amounts, I do not know what the scale of the problem is, I do not think that a large, but regardless of the scale of the phenomenon, we believe that yes, the company should in such a situation pay the tax, but at the same time should be held liable for the mismanagement, for the waste of property and this situation should be more likely to be reported to the tax chamber and even to the prosecutor's office due to the disadvantage of State Treasury companies in such a situation, by concluding such contracts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u137	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering an adjournment until noon. 18. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min. 45 hrs. 18 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. [[On the desktops of Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is placed the flags of Poland and the European Union]] I ask you to take your seats, and I ask you to read the message.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u138	I would like to inform you that today the meeting of the Rules of Procedure and of the Members' Affairs Committee will be held immediately after the end of the vote. [[But where, in what room?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u139	Thank you very much. The groups of Members have submitted proposals for the election of members of the National Judicial Council. The list of candidates is print number 39. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of these proposals. I propose that, in the event of the election of the members of the National Judicial Board, the Sejm decide to shorten the deadline laid down in the Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the examination of applications without being sent to the committee responsible. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. The groups of Members have submitted proposals for the election of members of the National Prosecutor's Council. The list of candidates is print number 40. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of these proposals. I propose that also in the event of the election of the members of the National Council of the Prosecutor's Office, the Sejm should decide to shorten the deadline laid down in the Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the examination of applications without being sent to the committee responsible. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Thank you. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is print number 37. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Public Finance Commission on the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 38. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, asked. There you go. How much time do you need? Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u140	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] The bill is certainly interesting, controversial and worth analysing, thinking about and looking for the best solution. There have been a number of issues raised during the debate, but not all Members know that for a long time, with each of the treasury ministers involved, such solutions could have been carried out where the presidents who resigned from their posts did not have to receive such high clearances. As you know, there have been several such changes in the recent period. On the other hand, there were also cases where some presidents, thinking about changing their responsibilities in the company they were running, wanted to gain management contracts completely unfair to the tasks they fulfilled. These presidents didn't get contracts either. This has also been the case for years at the Ministry of the Treasury. However, when returning to ordering the systematic problem of discharge to the Heads or Board members, I wanted to ask the applicants whether they would agree to the proposal of the Civic Platform, which in the next two weeks will prepare a comprehensive, full, coherent bill to order this case, because it is not possible to treat a very advanced disease with a bad medicine. We want to meet the idea, the idea of law and justice, but we can't agree to support it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A bill that's sealed, incomplete, prepared on the knee. We need two weeks to prepare the project and I ask: Will Law and Justice support our comprehensive solution to this problem? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u141	Thank you. Janusz Sanocki, not associated, also referred to the question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The spirit of this law, this amendment, is undoubtedly in my opinion right. It is right that these gross abuses, and this abuse, both in companies of the Treasury and at local level, be very common, regulate. However, I have doubts as to whether the differentiation of this tax in relation to different entities in respect of ownership, ownership relations, will not be the reason for repealing this. I propose that - of course, today we have to vote this out, I suppose we have to vote it out to give a signal - the applicants have worked to standardize it. I see no reason why such a tax rate would not include remuneration in private companies as well. Equality is equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u143	This is a question to the applicant's representative, but before I return - if she wants to - the floor has been made by Mr Robert Winnicki, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to the marshal to call on the Marshal of the Platform to remove the decorative elements... [[Voice from the room: Remove yourself!]] ...from the positions and the end of the political raccoon in the parliament hall. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u145	Thank you, Mr President, but I inform you that, in accordance with the article. Paragraph 184. 3 I do not see here, among those points 1 to 12, in which we speak, which is a formal conclusion, so that this proposal can take place. So that I cannot take the Member's statement as a formal proposal. Would Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, on behalf of the applicants, like to speak? She wouldn't. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: He wants to, he is on the platform.]] Oh, there it is, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u146	Mr Czerwiński, we cannot accept your proposal. Why? Because you had time to regulate these issues - or, as you said, improve the solutions already adopted - 8 years. [[Applause]] On the other hand, a two-week extension would only mean that the Act will not apply on 1 January, because the settlement of PIT must take place, as you know, earlier. That is why we cannot accept this proposal. This is calculated, sir, only so that our law simply does not enter into force. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Why will it not be possible to include this law?]] Why didn't we include private individuals or private companies? It is mainly because private companies have been unknown to us and there is such a large scale of contracting in such a way as to guarantee huge, million-dollar checks and compensation to those who are largely connected with political arrangements, which happened during the previous coalition. Such a large scale of artificial lifting of these checks was not in private companies and therefore we are limited to companies of the State Treasury, municipal companies, and here, as the owner, the State has the right to decide on ordering this pathology once and for all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u147	There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 38 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Wait a minute, Marshal.]] 431 Members voted. The vote was put by 282 Members against - 7 and 142 Members abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Personal Income Tax Act. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill in print no. 23 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 184 Members voted against, 49 Members voted against, 202 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the motion. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. We proceed to the third reading. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 36, will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: What do we do?]] [[Voice from the room: Za.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 307 Members voted against - 118, with 9 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Election of Members of the National Judicial Council (Print No 39). According to Art. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland The National Council of the Court of Justice shall be composed, inter alia, of: of the four members elected by the Sejm from among the Members. The term of office of Members of the Council, in accordance with Article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the National Judicial Council, lasts four years. The list of candidates for members of the National Judicial Council has been delivered to ladies and gentlemen in print No 39. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr Petru in what way? [[Questions.]] I'll see you in a minute, sir. I thought it was a formal motion. Wait a minute. I ask that Mrs Joanna Frydrych speak in order to present... Excuse me, do you have a question about all the candidates or a specific candidacy? [[All of them.]] Please? [[All of them.]] In that case, I would suggest, ladies and gentlemen, because that is the proposal that we hold a joint debate on all the candidates submitted after the presentation. I will ask you to speak during the debate. [[Good.]] I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Frydrych to present the candidacy of Mr Boris Budko, which was presented by the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform is a great honour to present Mr Boris Budka's candidacy as a member of the National Judicial Council. Mr Boris Budka was born on 11 March 1978. He graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Silesia in Katowice. After his studies, he received a solicitor's application in the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Katowice, which he graduated with honours in 2007. At the same time, he took up a professional job in the Department of Law of the University of Economics in Katowice, at the beginning as an assistant, currently as an assistant. Between 2005 and 2009 he participated in international seminars on labour law and social security in Bordeaux. He is a lecturer of many European universities, among others. in Portugal, Spain, France, Romania and Belgium. In 2011, on the basis of dissertation, vocational qualifications in employment relationships. [[♪ The bell ♪]] he has been awarded a PhD in Economics. He is the author of numerous publications on labour law, company law and civil law. In parallel with his work and scientific development, he engaged in social and self-government activities. For nine years he was a city councilman in Zabrze, a vice-president of Zabrze, and then a president. In 2011 he was elected to the 7th Sejm from the Gliwice district. He was Vice-President of the Legislative Commission, member of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, Extraordinary Commission for the examination of draft laws on cooperative law and Extraordinary Commission on changes in codification. He is a representative of the Sejm in proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal. On 4 May 2015, he became Minister of Justice, successfully running for office for the Sejm of the current term of office. Mr Borys Budka is a perfectly prepared person to serve as a member of the National Judicial Council. In the course of his professional and social activities, the candidate proved a very high level of substantive knowledge and integrity of his character, which guarantees the independence of the courts and independence of the judges. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u149	There you go. Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz in order to present the candidacy of Mr Mirosław Pampuch submitted by a group of Members from the Modern Posel Club and the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the candidacy of Mirosław Józef Pampuch as a member of the National Judicial Council. Mirosław Józef Pampuch, born on 19 March 1967 in Olsztyn, graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw, is a legal adviser, a member of the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Olsztyn. Between 1993 and 1998 he was an employee of the IRS in Olsztyn, where he was promoted from a referee to a senior tax commissioner and then a legal adviser. Between 1998 and 1999 he was the governor of the municipality of Jonkovo. From 1999 to 2008, he held a law firm of a legal adviser in Olsztyn, performing legal services for natural and legal persons. He appeared before the general and administrative courts of all instances. Between 2008 and 2014 he served as the Old Town of Olsztyn, and from January 2015 he served as the Secretary of the City of Olsztyn. At the same time, from 2002 until his election as a Member, he is a Councilman of the Olsztyn District. Between 2008 and 2010 he was the chairman of the Warmia-Mazury Districts Convention and in 2010 and 2014 he was a member of the Board of the Polish Districts Association. Since 1993, he has been a lecturer in tax law with a specialty in VAT, has worked in many companies and institutions. A social worker, a member of many associations. Activeness and professional experience indicate that Mr Mirosław Pampuch is a very good candidate for a member of the National Judicial Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u151	There you go. At the moment, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki will be speaking in order to present the nominations of Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz and Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz submitted by a group of Members from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. In what mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u152	Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I'd like a ten-minute break. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What happened? Here we go.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Here we go.]] [[Quiet!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u153	I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 22 hrs. 18 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. I ask Members to take their seats. We continue to consider item 6 of the agenda: Election of Members of the National Judicial Council (Print No 39). Mr Bernacki may speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry about the candidates I'm about to introduce today, and there's a lot to be said about, especially because they're people I've been in politics with for many years, but I don't want to injure or dissuade all the people I'm going to introduce. So on behalf of the club, I would like to introduce, first of all, the figure of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz is 63 years old. In 1976 he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration of the Jagiellonian University in Krakow. He passed a prosecutor's exam in 1978. He started his professional career in 1976 in the District Attorney's Office in Dębica. In 1980, he was transferred at his own request to the Provincial Prosecutor's Office in Krosno. After the introduction of martial law in Poland, he refused to conduct political investigations and was transferred to work in the District Public Prosecutor's Office in Krosno. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] In 1990, he was appointed District Attorney in this city. Between 1990 and 2005, he was a prosecutor in the district attorney's office turned into a district attorney's office. From 1992 to 1995, he led the Inter-Divisional Department of Investigation in Krosno, whose task was to conduct the most serious investigations from the entire voivodship. From June to November 2007, he was Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Between 1994 and 2002 he was a member of the Disciplinary Court for Prosecutors at the Public Prosecutor's Office. From 2001 to 2005 he belonged to a group of Polish prosecutors cooperating with law enforcement authorities of the Member States of the European Union. Specially involved in the development of exchanges of experience with prosecutors and judges in Slovakia and Ukraine. In the late '80s, he co-founded trade unions at the D.A.'s office. In 1992 he co-organized Krosno near the Society for Help. St. Albert's brother runs shelters and kitchens for people without means of living. He has been the president of the circle since its inception, the president of the Podkarpackie branch of this company and since 1998 a member of the headquarters in Wrocław. The second candidate is Professor Krystyna Pawłowicz's candidacy. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] High Seym! Krystyna Pawłowicz is an extraordinary professor at the Faculty of Law and Administration of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński University. He is also a professor at the University of Public Administration in Ostrołęka. For many years, until October 2011, she was a researcher at the Institute of Administrative and Legal Sciences at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. She worked in the Administrative Department of Economic and Banking Law. In the past, she worked for 2 years at the Agricultural Law Department, in an establishment headed by Professor Andrzej Stelmachowski. At the same time, she cooperated with Prof. Ludwik Bar at the Institute of Legal Sciences of the Polish Academy of Sciences for several years. She obtained her degree of doctor-habilitated doctor on the basis of work prepared on the legal status of the entrepreneur vis-à-vis the Supreme Chamber of Control. This happened in 2005. Since mid-2007 she has worked as a professor at the University of Warsaw at the Faculty of Law and Administration, where she has been a promoter of several hundred master jobs. Since October 2011, he has been an extraordinary professor at the University of Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński at the Faculty of Law and Administration, where he serves as head of the Department of Public Economic Law. In 1979 she obtained a judge's application. He specializes mainly in public economic law, including among others. in issues of economic freedom, the issue of constitutional and statutory status of entrepreneurs, the supervision of the state over the economy, economic administration, public media, the impact of EU regulations on the functioning of the state and Polish law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u155	There you go. At the moment, I would like to ask the floor of Mr James Kulesza to present the candidacy of Mr Tomasz Romankowski, which was presented by a group of Members from the Kukiz Posel Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u156	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In order not to extend, I would like to inform you that you can familiarize yourself with the detailed biography, the CV of our candidate in the Seym printing. On the other hand, on behalf of myself and the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I would like to recommend our candidate Mr. Tomasz Romekowski to the National Court Council. I would just like to highlight some fragments of Mr.Romekowski's life story. Well, in 2013 he opened a doctoral cord under the direction of Prof. Dr. Hab. Leszek Ćwikła at the Catholic University of Lublin. For his activities for the academic community and scientific achievements in 2009, he received the Rector of KUL award, and during his studies he actively participated in academic life, being among others. President of Vade Mecum Academic Thought Club. I would like to add from myself that Mr Tomasz Romankowski is not only a young person but also a very energetic, determined and substantive person prepared to perform this very important function. I therefore ask the honourable Members to choose this candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u157	There you go. I will read the formula and ask Mr Richard Petru to speak. Is there anyone else, apart from Mr Richard Petru, from the ladies and gentlemen of the House who wishes to speak on the applications submitted? Please report. I'm opening a discussion. The President, Mr Richard Petru, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A good rule in parliament is that compromise is always sought, especially in situations where such institutions are concerned, the recruitment of candidates for such important positions in the National Council of the judiciary or the National Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office. You were talking about the democratic package, and I would like to remind Mr Paul Kukiz what PiS is doing with appetizers. The piss appetizers are eating. [[Applause]] I am convinced that if this goes on, you will be alone, perhaps with Mr Tyszka, but you will see: you will soon have no Members. [[Me, me, me!]] Namely we tried to reach a compromise and together with the Polish People's Party we submitted joint candidates. Today I had the pleasure of arguing with President Kosiniak-Kamish about pensions, but on this issue we felt it was important to look for a compromise to find a way to solve the problem of the cast of these institutions. We've filed for joint candidates. Together we have 44 Members. Hence, the question is: "Couldn't a compromise be found? We are able, willing to withdraw one of the candidates, so that the votes of 44 Members are taken into account in one of these institutions. This is my question: Would any of the candidates be willing to withdraw so that all members could be admitted to these bodies in a consensual manner? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u159	Thank you, Mr President. President Paweł Kukiz will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I'm just a short one. Before you came in here, you were already eaten and digested... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...through the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u161	I would ask you to pay more attention because I did not hear the words made by Mr Kukiz. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[A voice from the hall: You must regret it, Mr. Marshal, you must regret it.]] No one else from your fellow Members has come forward. The discussion is closed. According to Art. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall elect the members of the National Judicial Board by an absolute majority. I propose that the Sejm hold a separate vote on this matter for each nomination. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. There's no objection. We proceed with the vote on Mr Boris Budka's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Boris Budka as a member of the National Judicial Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. 426 Members voted against, 4 abstentions. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has elected Mr Boris Budka as a member of the National Judicial Council by an absolute majority of votes. We proceed to the vote on the candidacy of Mr Mirosław Pampuch by Members of the Modern Posel Club and the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Mirosław Pampuch as a member of the National Judicial Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Democracy.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Democratic Party.]] [[It's an appetizer!]] Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. The vote was 163 votes against, 272 abstentions. I state that the Sejm did not choose Mr Mirosław Pampuch to be a member of the National Judicial Council in the absence of an absolute majority of votes. We proceed with the vote on Mrs Krystyna Pavłowicz's nomination by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the choice of Mrs Krystyna Pawłowicz as a member of the National Judicial Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. [[Up, up, up, up, up!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[We can do this.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] 434 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. A total of 278 Members voted against, 151 Members voted against, and five Members abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm elected Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz as a member of the National Council of Courts by an absolute majority of votes. We proceed with the vote on the candidacy of Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz as a member of the National Judicial Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. The vote was cast by 370 Members against 55 and 11 Members abstained. [[Applause]] I state that by an absolute majority, the Sejm elected Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz as a member of the National Judicial Council. We proceed with the vote on Mr Tomasz Rome's candidacy by Members of the Kukiz Posel Club15. [[Roman.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Mr Tomasz Romekowski's election as a member of the National Judicial Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220 Members. The vote was cast by 279 against 159 Members and 1 Member abstained. [[Applause]] I state that by an absolute majority, the Sejm elected Mr Tomasz Romowski to be a member of the National Judicial Council. [[Voice from Rome!]] Roman. [[Voice from the Room: Roman, Roman!]] I'm sorry, Roman. Excuse me, sir. If that's the truth... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is!]] ...then, of course, we agree fully. [[He can change his name, which you don't do...]] We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Election of Members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council (Print No 40). According to Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 5th Law on the Prosecutor's Office of the Sejm shall elect four members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council from among its Members for the duration of its term of office. The list of candidates for members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council has been delivered to ladies and gentlemen in print 40. Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza in order to present the candidacy of Mrs Barbara Chrobak, tabled by a group of Members of the Kukiz Posel Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u162	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 and my own, it is a great pleasure to present Mrs Barbara Chrobak's candidacy. I have a huge request for you to familiarize yourselves with the exact biography that has been attached to the seymography. They will not present an exact life story here, but I would add that her current professional and social activities concerned issues that the National Public Prosecutor's Council is dealing with and allowed her to have an excellent knowledge of the problems that the prosecution and its prosecutors face every day. I believe that not only because of the type of education and professional work, but also because of social work, it has knowledge and experience which predisposes it to participate in the work of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. I therefore request a vote in favour of this candidacy and for the election of Mrs Barbara Chrobak to the National Public Prosecutor's Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u163	Thank you, sir. I would ask Mrs Kinga Gajewska to speak in order to present the candidacy of Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha, which was presented by a group of Members from the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u164	Dear Marshal, Dear Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I have the honour to apply for Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. First of all, I will say that Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha's life has been oscillating around the teachings of the law all the time - he has conducted daily law studies - not only his own, but also his teachings. [[Bravo!]] He was born on 1 February 1984. He took a master's degree in law and administration at the Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń. The Master's work was devoted to the legal protection of the privacy of persons performing public functions. Later at the same university he began his PhD in the Department of Constitutional Law of the Faculty of Law and Administration. He conducted teaching courses on constitutional law and political systems of the European Union countries. Between 2005 and 2006, he was a member of the legal counsellor at the same university, then a member of the Polish Parliament's team involved in the amendment of the Law on Higher Education. Between 2010 and 2013, he was an applicant of the law firm, after which he became a legal adviser in 2013. Between 2010 and 2014, he began his political career with the City Council of Torun, Vice-President of the Committee on Budgets. Later he became a Member of the 8th Seym. He was the President of the Idea Initiative Foundation, cooperating with academic communities in his voivodship, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, and served as a member of the Board of the Platon im Foundation. Kuba Ruminski, who is involved in awarding scholarships for talented school and academic youth, as well as organizing concerts and charities. For my part, I would like to say that Mr Arkadiusz Myrch is a person of exceptional personal culture and, therefore, the whole biography, I would like to propose that Mr Arkadiusz Myrch be a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. He is perfectly prepared to perform this function. During his professional and social activities, the candidate demonstrated a high level of substantive knowledge and integrity of character. These qualities guarantee proper performance of the duties entrusted to the candidate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u165	There you go. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Ast in order to present the nominations of Mrs Małgorzata Wassermann and Mr Piotr Beszczółkowski submitted by a group of Members from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the nominations of the Law and Justice Club to the National Public Prosecutor's Council, two candidates: Małgorzata Ewa Wassermann and Piotr Pszczółkowski. Małgorzata Wassermann completed her master's degree in law at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the Jagiellonian University in Cracow in 1997 and 2002. Between 2002 and 2005, she held a lawyer's application in the Krakow Bar Association and received an entry on the list of lawyers in 2006. Since 2006, he has been running his own law firm in Krakow, specializing in civil, criminal and economic law. Ms Małgorzata Wassermann was a representative of the Polish Parliament, local authorities, journalists, commercial law entities and local authorities. She gained her extensive professional experience alongside attorney Zbigniew Cichonia. In 2015, she became a Member of the 8th term of office of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. During this term of office, she was elected Deputy Chairman of the Sejm Committee on Justice and Human Rights and member of the Sejm Committee on Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs. Both education and extensive professional experience indicate that Małgorzata Wassermann is a good candidate for a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Piotr Pszczółkowski graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Łódź in 1994. Between 1994 and 1998 he completed a four-year bar application in the Bar Chamber in Łódź completed with a 1998 bar exam with objective results. Since 1999 he has been a member of the Bar Association in Łódź, currently in the form of an individual law firm in Łódź, of course, and in its branch in Warsaw. He conducts general practice in the field of criminal, civil and economic law. He is involved in training corporate workers from the fundamentals of law and ethics. He is the patron of many attorneys, currently members of the Bar Chamber in Łódź. [[Game in the O.R.]] He served as a member of the Disciplinary Court of the Bar Association in Łódź and a deputy disciplinary... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ... Regional Bar Council in Łódź. In recent years, he has dealt with the legal aspects of the Smolensk disaster. He has served and continues to act as representative of several dozen victims of 23 victims of a disaster in criminal proceedings conducted by military and general prosecutorial units. In 2015 he became a Member of the 8th term of office of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland and chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Responsibility. Both education and extensive professional experience guarantee that Mr Piotr Beszczółkowski is a good candidate for a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u167	There you go. At the moment, you will be speaking with Jerzy Meysztowicz in order to present the candidacy of Mr Michał Stasiński, submitted by a group of Members from the Polish Modern Club and the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the candidacy of Mr Michał Stasiński, Member of the Modern Posel Club, born on 28 April 1968 in Bydgoszcz. He graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration of Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń in 1994, specialization: international law. He completed postgraduate studies in marketing and management at the Banking College in Toruń in 2001. He runs an advisory company for the introduction of Scandinavian companies from the European Union. Active participant of national and international economic life within the Association of Employers Pomerania and Kujaw, Norwegian-Polish Chamber of Industry and Commerce, Polish-Norwegian Chamber of Industry and Trade. President of Pomeranian-Kujawski Association of Polish-Norwegian Friendship. I hope that President Richard Petru's appeal will not remain unanswered and the High House will select our candidate as a very good candidate for the National Public Prosecutor's Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u169	There you go. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor on the applications submitted? I can't see. Therefore, in accordance with Article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I inform the High House that the Sejm elects members of the National Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office by an absolute majority. I propose that the Sejm, as in the case of the National Judicial Council, hold a separate vote on each nomination. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the vote on Mrs Barbara Chrobak's candidacy tabled by Members of the Kukiz Posel Club15. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mrs Barbara Chrobak as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. The absolute majority is 219. The vote was cast by 276 Members against - 159, with 1 abstention. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm elected Mrs Barbara Chrobak as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council by an absolute majority. We proceed with the vote on Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Arkadius Myrcha as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. The absolute majority is 218. The vote was put by 412 Members against - 12, 11 Members abstained. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm elected Mr Arkadiusz Myrch as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council by an absolute majority of votes. We proceed with the vote on Mr Piotr Beszczółkowski's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Piotr Beszczółkowski as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. The votes were put against 374, against 55 and 9 Members abstained. [[Applause]] By an absolute majority, the Sejm elected Mr Piotr Beszczółkowski as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. We are voting on the candidacy of Mr Michał Stasiński by Members of the Modern Posel Club and the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the election of Mr Michał Stasiński as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. The absolute majority is 220. 164 Members voted against, 271 Members voted against, 4 Members abstained. I state that, in the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm did not choose Mr Michał Stasiński as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. We proceed with the vote on Mrs Małgorzata Wassermann's candidacy by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Małgorzata Wassermann as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The absolute majority is 219. The vote was cast by 368 Members, 55 Members voted against, 13 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm elected Ms Małgorzata Wassermann as a member of the National Public Prosecutor's Council by an absolute majority. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 37). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on these proposals? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 37 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 438 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, one Member abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice submitted requests to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of parliamentary draft resolutions on the determination of the lack of legal power of the resolutions of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015. At the meeting of the Senior Convention, opposition to the completion of the agenda was raised. These are, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on I will put these items to the vote in turn to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: What is it?]] The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The formal proposal was made by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a formal request for a break and an invitation from the parties who should express an opinion on those resolutions which you intend to put into order, namely the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, the President of the National Court and the first President of the Supreme Court, because it is our duty to consult with the most important authorities of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] Today you are trying to rape another state of law in the Republic of Poland. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Today, as the Law and Justice, you wish to introduce into the legal order a resolution which is wrong to exist which exceeds the powers of the Sejm, which exceed the powers of the majority, and you try to act like a collective dictator. You can't let that happen. [[Applause]] Your behavior is becoming more and more like those who used to wear not blue, blue shirts, but more brown. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Scandal! Scandal! What's this?]] You're not allowed to do this. [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] You can't bring the Sejm... [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal!]] ...a resolution to amend the Sejm's resolutions from the previous term. This is contrary to the principles of the rule of law, contrary to the constitution and all principles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u171	Good. Thank you very much. In that case, Mr Kropiwnicki's formal proposal... [[Voice from the hall: Voice against!]] ...treated... [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: But I'm sorry, I was the first, Marshal.]] One moment, ladies and gentlemen. Please leave the podium. [[Sit down!]] The formal application, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, at this point shall be treated as a vote in favour. The Marshal may have a vote against it at this point. Is there a vote against it? [[Yeah, he's against it.]] There you go, Mr Piotr Naimski, the vote against. [[You have the right to make a formal request.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm filing a counterclaim to a motion just made. The resolutions of the Supreme Chamber are not obliged to be consulted. These are the resolutions of the supreme authority. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] This is firstly the order extended by the proposed points will allow the High House to correct the evil that has been done in the previous term. [[Don't be silly.]] We are looking for a practical way out of the situation created by the Civic Platform in the previous term. [[Yeah, yeah...]] I ask the High House to vote against the proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u173	Thank you very much. [[Corrigendum.]] In the procedure of correcting Mr Kropiwnicki... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Why is that?]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. We're just in time... [[Member with a formal request!]] ...to discuss the first proposal, that is, Mr Kropiwnicki's proposal, the formal proposal. In the correction procedure, please, Mr Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, Mr... [[Voice from the room: What corrigendum?]] ...just now he was talking about us being the supreme House. We are not the highest Chamber, we are one of the co-deciding bodies in Poland. There's a three-part division of power, maybe you didn't read it in the constitution... [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...but I ask you to read what you vowed to do. We swore that... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...we'll keep an eye on order, including constitutional order. We have three divisions of power. There's power... [[Voice from the room: We're watching right now.]] ...the legislature, this is the Sejm and the Senate, is the executive authority and the judicial authority. And there's no tallest one. The Supreme Authority only had the Sejm in the Polish People's Republic, and it's over, really. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Get off that podium.]] Remember, 25 years ago, we introduced a democratic system, a constitutional democracy, a key element of which is the division of power, and you think you're the majority that can do anything. [[That's what you said.]] Well, if you want, let's say it's Friday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[This is not a correction!]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a correction!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u175	At the moment, I am forced by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki... [[Voices from the O.R.: Exclud! Excuse me!]] Exclude Not yet, [[Joy in the Chamber]] but I warn you that I will be paying attention, because your speech... [[Execute all of us.]] ...wasn't a corrigendum. [[Get everyone out of here.]] Corrigendum - I remind you of the article. Paragraph 184. 1 - may refer to the correction of a misunderstood or misconstrued statement by the speaker. Remember that. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal!]] Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment we will proceed with the formal motion to vote... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Mr Marshal, another formal conclusion.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion!]] Member, please take your seat and don't bother me, because I will have to reprimand you. [[Touchdown, applause]] In view of the formal request for interruption, I will put the proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, please raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 162 Members, against - 270 Members, abstained from voting. The Sejm's motion is denied. It's a formal conclusion, isn't it? [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a formal request for a break on behalf of the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: He was just there!]] [[He was here.]] I'd like to argue with that...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u177	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u178	...that this request was very late before hours. 17...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u179	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u180	...we didn't have the opportunity to read that application or...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u181	Member, I will be forced to interrupt you immediately... [[As part of the democratic package.]] [[This is outrageous at all.]] The formal request for a recess has been passed, so your speech is unfounded. [[Touchdown, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u182	Yeah, but I...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u183	Please take your seat. Step out of the podium, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u184	...we didn't get to know it...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u185	Member, I will be forced to...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u186	...or order an expert opinion. Another very legally questionable legal proposal. [[But, Marshal, this is a scandal.]] [[Turn off the mike.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u187	Madam, I ask you to step down from the platform. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Stay!]] We proceed with the vote on print number 42. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Who among the Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015 item. 1038, print number 42, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 271 Members voted against, 163 Members voted against, 2 Members abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on print number 43. [[Wait a minute, wait a minute!]] Who among the Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015 item. 1039, print 43, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 272 Members voted against, 157 Members voted against, 1 Member abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Okay. He's asking for a vote, Marshal!]] [[There are votes.]] The formal proposal is made by Mr Sławomir Neumann. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Platform Club, I would like to ask you as a marshal, I understand, the entire House to change the method and way in which these proceedings are conducted. According to art. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I would like to ask for a change in the way in which the proceedings are conducted, to give Members the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the material which you present, to obtain any expertise, to have time to read at least this request you wish to proceed with. Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you to do this. If not, the Platform Club will ask for a change of marshal, for your marshal to be dismissed from this function. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Well, well...]] [[Voice from the room: There you go.]] [[Voice from the room: There you go.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u189	High Seym! But in the article. Paragraph 184. 3... [[Cancel.]] [[Point 7, point 7!]] ...in the following paragraphs it is also referred to which proposals the Marshal of the Sejm must put to the vote, e.g. request for a break. And I did. Other conclusions, on the other hand... [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: You don't have to do anything.]] ...marshal of the Sejm doesn't have to vote, so I... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[He doesn't have to do anything, but he'll be canceled.]] ...I am not putting this proposal to the vote. [[Applause]] [[But nine in the mouth. 3.]] [[We can do this, Marshal.]] We proceed with the vote on print 46. Who among the Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015 item. 1040, print number 46, will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. Two Members have voted in favour of 271 Members against - 162 Members. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. The formal proposal was made by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. There you go. [[She's already filed formal applications.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a formal recess by tomorrow at noon. 9. I would like to argue that, first of all, we received this proposal very late. [[There isn't until tomorrow.]] We didn't have the opportunity to get acquainted with him, we didn't have the opportunity to order legal expertise. It is a very complicated matter, including the numerous doubts of constitutionalists, which are already reported in such an immediate manner. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out first of all that your conclusions contain a wording concerning the fact that you want to state that the resolution of the Sejm is not legal. It is not possible to determine the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Sejm. There's just no legal basis... [[How's it gone?]] ...to make such resolutions. Moreover, I would also like to draw attention to the effect of your resolution. As I understand it, you want the 8th Sejm to re-elected all five judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Not all of them, most of them.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you said that it was precisely the fact that the 7th Sejm elected five judges, was a violation of a constitutional principle and was a mistake. I understand decency as a continuance of views based on substance, [[Applause]] And you're doing exactly the opposite. There's no such thing as decency for you, I understand, since [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] without changing the substantive conditions, you allow yourself to change your views. Moreover, it will be a violation of Article. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which states that Poland is a democratic legal state. Thus, the rule of law will be broken and a number of other principles which are derived from this article, such as the principle of trust in the State, the principle of legal certainty, the rule of law and correct legislation. [[The whole textbook.]] In addition, Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides for the application of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. The 7th Constitution, which speaks about the principle of legalism, i.e. that the authorities of the state operate on the basis and within the limits of the law, but above all, the article. Paragraph 194. 1st Constitution, which states that the Sejm elects judges for nine-year term. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Time's up.]] So what you've been accusing the Civic Platform of, now you want to do. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u191	By courtesy, I've listened... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Chairman.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] ...and I find that this proposal is a repeated proposal and I take it not as a formal proposal... [[Voices from the room: No, it was about a different resolution. A different resolution was involved.]] ...but as an attempt to hinder work. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] Mr Jarosław Kaczyński spoke against the vote. [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a vote against. [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, we are voting.]] I would like to address the honourable Member as follows. [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] Namely, everything you've quoted here is against your conclusions. It is in the name of the defence of the rule of law and democracy that we do it. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: You're lying.]] [[This is an outrage. It's outrageous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u193	Thank you very much. Since we voted earlier on the request for a break, I will not put this proposal back to the vote. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: About another resolution.]] We proceed with the vote on print number 44. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of completing the agenda with a point... [[Voice from the hall: In Russia they have Putin.]] ...as follows: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015 item. 1041, print number 44, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. There were 271 Members voted against - 162, two Members abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. We proceed with the vote on print number 45. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of completing the agenda... [[Formal conclusion.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[In the middle of a vote?]] ...about the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the selection of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015 item. 1042, print 45, will raise your hand and press the button. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Guys! Look at the Members, Marshal.]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Give the glasses to the Marshal.]] [[Mr. Marshal, how can you do that?]] 430 Members voted. Two Members have voted in favour of 271 Members against - 157 Members. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Marshal should see the MPs.]] Mr Rafał Grupiński made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are actually dealing with an extraordinary precedent right now. [[Conclusion!]] I would like to make a formal request in this regard for the convent of the Marshal of the Senior Convention, to take a break and to consider among the heads of the clubs whether you really want to conduct this kind of lex specialis... [[The bombing.]] ...the end of the term of office of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal elected in the previous term of office of the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: They have not been chosen.]] [[They haven't started at all.]] This means - among you, states of law and justice, many graduates of law - that in a moment the Sejm may adopt a resolution which invalidates your legal mastery because they will lose their legal power. [[And we'll do it in the next term.]] We can now turn to the law departments and say that those who voted against the Constitution, graduates of the law departments, should be voting in the law departments deprived of their master's rights because they are violating constitutional law in Poland. [[Applause]] You create a lex specialized on your own and you will be the lex specialized on your own. Think carefully about what you're doing. You are breaking the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u195	Mr President, this formal proposal has already been put to the vote. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, take it easy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u196	Mr. Marshal, in the Kremlin they open champagne, as they see it, what you're doing with Poland now. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u197	This formal proposal will not be put to the vote because it has already been put to the vote. [[It was a motion to convene the Senior Convention.]] On this point, I propose that the Sejm should listen in a joint discussion on these items on the agenda of the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Objection.]] [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] Then we shall proceed to the vote. [[Voice from the room: hello! The objection was.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Objection.]] We proceed with the vote on opposition. [[But I'd like to justify it.]] [[There's a reason for the objection.]] There you go, Mr Kropiwnicki justifies his opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These are indeed unprecedented draft resolutions. There was not in the history of the Republic of Poland, the history of the Sejm, such projects that we would try to invalidate the resolution of the Sejm of the previous term. In this way, you may annul the resolutions on the election of all judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, [[Applause]] The Ombudsman, GIODO, the President of NIK, the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child and all the others. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And then you'll have full power. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] But it's getting more and more that brown color coming out, so please don't do that. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Scandal. How can you say that?]] Mr. President, you're a doctor of the law. You fought for democracy in the Republic of Poland. Is that really what the rule of law they teach at the University of Warsaw is all about? Is this really the theory of the law we're supposed to be learning right now? After all, this is not in accordance with all the principles of three divisions of power. We must not do so that the 8th Sejm annuls the resolution of the 7th Sejm or the 6th term of office. It's never happened in legal order, you know that. [[There's never been a resolution like that.]] We cannot tolerate such situations, and that is why I propose that we announce a recess, send it back to the committee, and in the committee, we order lawyers' expertise. [[Voice from the room: There are expertise.]] The point is, at least we can hear the Legal Bureau's opinion... [[No.]] ...to have the opinions of the Legislative Bureau, the opinions of independent experts, so that we can hear... [[To the tribunal!]] ... The National Court of Justice and the Constitutional Tribunal. After all, we fought for such freedom, so that the legal entities, the chief constitutional bodies, could express their opinion in the Sejm, [[Applause]] And the Seym goes like a roller. You can't let that happen. I appeal to the hearts and feelings of the lawyers so that we don't do this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr. Marshal, with the opposite motion.]] [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u199	Ladies and gentlemen! I only allowed this objection to be justified by courtesy of the Member when objecting. There is no mandatory obligation to object, such a formal application. [[There's no ban either.]] Pros and cons - yes, but in the case of opposition, as far as voting is concerned, there is no vote. So we proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in a joint discussion will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 273 Members voted against, 160 Members voted against, and no one abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 21. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 29 hours 21 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of points 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. agenda: 9. First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015, item. 1038 (Print No 42.) [[Two thousand fifteenth.]] Yeah, two thousand fifteenth. [[Excuse me, with a formal request.]] Wait a minute. 10. First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015, item. 1039 (Print No 43). [[Two thousand fifteen years, two thousand.]] Two thousand fifteen years. [[We'll teach.]] 11. First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015, item. 1040 (print No 46). [[Two thousand. Bravo, Marshal!]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] 12. First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015, item. 1041 (Print No 44.) [[Room voice: Bravo, bravo!]] 13. First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015, item. 1042 (print No 45). Mr Stanisław... [[With a formal application.]] Mr Robert Kropiwnicki with a formal application. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a formal request for a break and a reference to the committee of these shameful resolutions which violate the entire legal order in the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]] I hear the marshal used to be a hippie, he fought for freedom, he testified to such unworthy behaviour in the Polish People's Republic... [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]] [[Voice from the room: Get down!]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...and therefore I ask the marshal to remember those times when fundamental rights and freedoms were violated in the Republic of Poland, so that we do not duplicate these worst patterns... [[Voice from the room: Mercenary...]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear...]] [[Voice from the room: See you in the morning!]] ...because under the cover of November night we make very bad rules. I would also like to call very strongly for us not to do this today, so that we have time for expertise, for opinions, so that it does not take... for the world, Poland, Europe to get to know it. Remember that, too. Tonight under the cover of the night... [[Voice from the room: Whose business are you representing?]] We are in this Chamber, and I am very pleased that the representatives of the Constitutional Tribunal have arrived in this Chamber. Very welcome, Professor. [[Long-term applause, some Members get up]] I'm really glad the law professors are here with us. I hope that they will also be able to speak so that the Polish legal world can hear what you are doing today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u201	Thank you. Thank you very much. [[Vote.]] With a vote against Marek Suski. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: But why?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a vote against. I recommend - expertise is. These expertises are crushing... [[Voices from the hall: Where?]] ...to criticize how you broke the constitution... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] ...in the previous term of office, adopting these resolutions, [[Applause]] about which today we find, in accordance with the truth and the law, that they are simply... [[We're voting.]] ...inconclusive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u203	Thank you very much. [[Vote!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Other formal proposals.]] The vote will take place at 3 p.m. 22. I'm ordering a recess until this hour. Thank you. [[What's this?]] [[Voice from the room: Formal motion, Marshal. Another formal conclusion.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 15 h 22 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. I ask Members to take their seats. We continue to consider items 9 to 13 on the agenda. In view of the formal request for interruption, I will put the proposal to the vote. We'll proceed to the vote... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We'll wait a little longer, please. Are you all prepared? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Not yet.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[About what?]] Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: We!]] [[Under the cover of the night!]] Who's holding back? [[You guys like it, don't you?]] 418 Members voted. Two Members abstained from voting 152 against 264. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. At the moment, I ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present the justification for all draft resolutions. [[Why? Let's vote right away.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the applicants, I request the adoption of a resolution that the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 was adopted. [[Or maybe with the army?]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[November night.]] [[Disgraceful!]] [[We have experience in such matters.]] On 8 October 2015, the Sejm of the Republic of Poland held a vote on five candidates for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal notified by the Bureau of the Sejm. The result of the vote was resolutions published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015 under headings 1038 to 1042. It turns out that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, acting in matters of the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, committed a number of procedural deficiencies. These procedural allegations are many and have a gross scope. [[Something like that. Who's talking?]] [[Like what?]] We find here shortcomings at the stage of the submission of the proposal, the procedure or, finally, the legally questionable expectation of the finalization of the actions of the VII-term Sejm by the VIII-term Sejm. [[Voice from the room: Why?]] These flaws of the procedure were revealed by respected professors of constitutional law of leading university centres in Poland. [[Voice from the room: What?]] [[Which is?]] Their opinions prepared on behalf of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland were delivered to the clubs. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: When?]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] They are on the website of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, they are generally available documents. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is the interpretation of the law?]] Incidentally, I would also like to add that today at a specially convened press conference, because of the expectations of the media, I have widely presented the opinions of the constitutionalists mentioned by me. [[Shame on you!]] I am sorry to say that the media has not shown a single piece of the presentation. [[Oh!]] [[Voice from the room: Change the media.]] [[Voice from the room: TV showed itself.]] We're dealing with manipulation. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] that the citizens of the Republic of Poland... [[What do we need the media for?]] ...they didn't know what the state of things were. [[Change the media.]] Similarly, in a selective manner, the appearances in the local parliament that took place a week ago were also transmitted. [[What about Television Trwam?]] No statements were presented indicating the non-constitutionality of the solutions of the contested law, whereas only those who opposed them were presented. [[Voice from the room: Change the media.]] This clearly undermines confidence in the media. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[The voice from the hall: The 20th.]] From the perspective of the Sejm's work, the issue of mistrial of resolutions is much more important than the issue of non-compliance of a number of statutory standards with the Constitution. This latter problem will certainly be examined by the Constitutional Court, which has the competence to do so. [[Voice from the room: Wait.]] We hope that despite the fact that he will be a judge in his own case, he will do so with due objectivity. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This cannot be done.]] We trust that this will happen, although the current President of the Tribunal is doing so in a media unprecedented in a democratic state of law... [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] ...pre-trial criticism of the legislative actions of the Sejm... [[That's rude!]] ...insinuating a sentence... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lying!]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Don't be silly.]] [[He forgot that power was passing away.]] ...and two former Presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal dare... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Read it, read it.]] ...to humiliate the democratically elected Sejm, comparing Parliament's actions to a coup d'état, and the Polish state... [[Voices from the room: PiS-u, PiS-u.]] ...to dictatorships. These facts alone allow us to doubt the apoliticality of the tribunal, its independence, and the efficiency of the statutory system of disciplinary judges. [[He's still questioning it.]] [[Voice from the room: Insolence.]] [[That's not true, that's not true.]] [[Voice from the room: Do you hear yourself?]] In his previous term of office, the Law and Justice Club warned that by adopting a new law, the Sejm gave the Court the power to disrupt the balance of the three divisions of the authorities. Nevertheless, I believe in the restraint and restraint of the judges. The objective Constitutional Tribunal is needed, the Sejm itself does not examine the constitutionality of its law. [[Voice from the room: Something unbelievable.]] But now the undisputed and exclusive right of the Sejm, or perhaps even its duty, is to carry out the convalescence... [[Voice from the room: What?]] [[What?]] [[You can google it.]] ...convalidating the legal acts he's issued. That is why Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has decided to take appropriate measures, including amendments to the Constitutional Court Act carried out in the previous week. [[Voice from the room: But that's not enough.]] But the adoption of this bill is not all. Today, the Sejm still has a second sphere, which requires convalescence. [[The troops are in.]] This is to correct the process itself on the choice of the creation function of Parliament. In this case, the Sejm cannot count on the support of any other State body. The election function of judges is attributed to the Constitution only to the Sejm. [[Exactly.]] The act which is applicable in this matter is the resolution of the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: Where is the previous vow?]] Proceding, as well as this act, is a form of sovereign action of the Sejm and is therefore not subject to control by other authorities. It's the Seym that has to make up for its own mistakes. [[Applause]] [[So the tribunal...]] As a result of the self-assessment carried out, a resolution on the non-legality of the resolutions adopted on 8 October 2015 is proposed today. It is also worth noting that the action taken today does not conflict with the action of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Voice from the room: Yeah...]] The activity of the Sejm and the Tribunal concerns completely different subjects as well as the levels of seym activity. The Court shall be a court of law and shall rule on the substantive content of the legal rules. Despite reasonable doubt as to the objectivity of the tribunal, as I mentioned, Law and Justice will take the judgment seriously. [[Voice from the room: Who's saying this?]] But in today's judgment... [[It's time to change the name. No more law and no more justice.]] ... The Sejm will refer to the actual aspects of the procedure which had infringed the constitutional, statutory and regulatory rules in force at the time, thus causing the resolutions adopted to be defective and consequently lack their legal force. Both actions are thus complementary, together creating an effective remedy for the faulty functioning of the VII Sejm. [[Voice from the room: Disgusting.]] The adoption of this resolution will not only allow the whole process of appointing the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to be ratified, but also the interruption of the difficult situation resulting from the failure to fill five judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, ……]] I would like to mention one more point. Namely, by proceeding with the Constitutional Court Act, you were concerned about the continuity of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is why you entered an unacceptable sphere. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Bo?]] You have entered the sphere of competence of Parliament VIII. [[Applause]] And supposedly breaking the law in this area improved the concern for the continuity of parliament. [[Member of Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Unworked...]] [[It's not Parliament, it's the tribunal.]] I would like to quote a passage from Professor Garlicki's opinion in one of his publications: If there are vacancies in the Constitutional Tribunal, it is possible for the Sejm to fulfil them as soon as possible. [[Exactly.]] However, there is no constitutional obstacle to a temporary court acting in a reduced capacity. This is the situation we faced at the end of our term of office. I thought there was no need to go back to some statements today, to some arguments. [[Thinking is bad.]] But since you're still talking about the assassination today... [[Voice from the room: Because it's an assassination.]] ...then I have to go back and remember some things. [[That's not true. A constitutional assassination.]] [[Voice from the room: Shame.]] [[Voice from the room: A coup against the constitution. You should have changed two, not five.]] I need to go back and remember some things. Ladies and gentlemen! Excuse me, I'll repeat myself, but you're doing the same thing. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: We?]] [[A voice from the hall: You do the same.]] The Constitutional Tribunal Act was prepared by the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Cell phone sound]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[Voice from the room: Chairman...]] Doesn't that bother you? Do you think it's natural that the subject is writing the bill for himself? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes...]] The judges of the Constitutional Tribunal actively participated in the work on this law. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Will you destroy even these authorities?]] [[Shut up, shh...]] [[Voice from the hall: Quiet there!]] They participated in all the meetings of the Committee on Justice, in all the meetings of the subcommittees at which the Constitutional Tribunal Act was conducted. [[Voice from the Chamber: Farmers do not participate in the work of the Committee on Agriculture?]] They were actively speaking in the discussion... [[Voice from the room: Isn't it allowed?]] ...have consistently defended the records they have submitted to President Komorovsky... [[During the day, not at night.]] ...because he's the one who brought in the project. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal spoke in his relations with the media about his ideological proximity to the Civic Platform. Today, too, we have seen him surrounded by Members of the Civic Platform. [[Applause]] [[That's disgusting!]] [[That's terrible.]] It was this manifestation of apoliticity. It was this manifestation of apoliticity. [[The voice from the hall: For communes it was so!]] It's a country. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're setting up a Constitutional Court. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in a very awkward situation for this tribunal. [[Applause]] This country, when you bring the bill to the Constitutional Court, you place it in such a role as to be a judge in your own case. [[Applause]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I would like to believe that the Constitutional Tribunal will nevertheless be restrained in its actions... [[You're gonna miscalculate.]] [[What's the Constitution for?]] ...though they are known to every lawyer Cardinal's rules of law... [[Voice from the hall: Like what?]] [[Turn off the PO, please.]] ...that anyone who even witnessed the incident can't be later... [[But you lie beautifully until you smoke out of your ears.]] ...conviction. In this situation, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were more than that - they were the creators of the project. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] And today you're expecting... [[That's not true.]] ...that they will determine the fate of this project's compatibility with the constitution. [[Applause]] Not only in Polish law... [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...but in almost all civilized countries of the world, there is a well-established principle that in situations where there may be concerns about the lack of impartiality of a judge, the judge by law should turn himself off. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] That's what they teach in law school, and certainly such a well-established knowledge has a judge's application. [[Applause]] [[And you've lost all your knowledge, unfortunately.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] So the question is... [[You forgot, amnesia.]] ... whether the Constitutional Tribunal has legal and moral legitimacy to settle a case. [[No, you do.]] [[The president does, the president does.]] I leave that question in the vacuum because it's rhetorical. Of course not. [[Kaczyński's the only one with ID.]] [[Quiet there, don't disturb.]] [[Voice from the hall: Quiet there!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u205	Excuse me, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u206	Did you ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u207	Sorry, Mr Niesiołowski, I am addressing Mr Stefan Niesiołowski. [[Then don't turn around, you're turning too often.]] I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the House's deliberations. [[He's lying.]] [[Voice from the hall: After the cavities!]] [[Mr. Marshal, it's not appropriate.]] Continue, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, you asked for the opinion of the experts on the Sejm website. Therefore, in a very concise form, I will quote the conclusion of the Constitutionalists. Namely, the conclusion is that the provisions of the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 25 June 2015 concerning the selection of judges of the Tribunal in 2015 are incompatible with the Constitution. In particular, Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 and Article 2 137 are incompatible with Article. 112 and Article 9 (1) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 2 of the Constitution, because it accords with the principle of Parliament's autonomy and the principle of correct legislation. Art. 137 Laws in conjunction with Art. 19 infringes the principle of democratic rule of law as set out in Article. 2 constitutions. [[A priest from Tylava!]] Art. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 5th Constitutional Tribunal Act infringes the rule of correct legislation derived from the article. 2 constitutions. Art. 137 constitutes an infringement of Article. 4 the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Art. Point 18 (2) should be considered as discrimination against older people and an infringement of Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 constitutions. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think there's any doubt... [[There isn't.]] ...how devastating this is the opinion of constitutionalists issued on behalf of the Office of Sejm Analysis. [[Applause]] The situation may not be obvious to all of us, but no one can explain it so well... [[Like you.]] ...like Mr Kropiwnicki. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] That's why once again, ladies and gentlemen... [[A priest from Tylava.]] ...I wouldn't want to do it, so I'll quote his words. I'm gonna talk about it again. This is the 93rd session of the Sejm on 26 May 2015. I quote: [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] ... A third of the judges will lose their mandate at the end of the term of office of the Sejm, i.e. after the current term of office - it is important - before the actual start of the new work. We thought it best not to block the work of the tribunal... [[That's right.]] ...but also not to add to your new term of office, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] At the first, second or third sitting, which means... [[It's like your stupidity...]] ...when the government is elected, the parliamentary majority is constructed, not added to the crucible of events that will take place, five more judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, because this could block the functioning of the tribunal for a long time. [[Well, well, well.]] [[Not five, two. Don't lie to me.]] In order to prevent this from happening, we have decided that it is better to introduce a transitional provision, which will apply only to those judges whose term of office ends in 2015, so as to elect those five judges during our term of office. [[Applause]] And that, I think, is sufficient justification - Mr Kropiwnicki continues - it is about not blocking the work of the Constitutional Tribunal for a longer period. [[Let's get to the point.]] [[And what does that have to do with interrupting your term of office?]] Can we ask for a more vivid and graphic representation of what the Civic Platform was about in these constitutional procedures at the end of the last term? [[What's your problem?]] This was the case - the polls inevitably pointed out - that the Platform would lose power. The point was to take over the last flank... [[What's going on with you two?]] ...politicize the Constitutional Tribunal to the bottom in the hope that such a politicized Constitutional Tribunal will block all relevant reforms of law and justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Oh, my God, how horrible, horrible...]] [[We didn't report any politicians to the tribunal.]] Many of our compatriots may not be fully aware of what the battle is about at the moment. [[Democracy!]] [[Voice from the hall: The Constitution!]] The battle is about restoring constitutional order. That's the first thing. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Members of the Constitutional Tribunal leave the Chamber]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Where's your respect for the tribunal?]] [[They'll be left alone.]] The voters to reform the country gave legitimacy to Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The Constitutional Tribunal, in the opinion of Members of the Civic Platform, was to be the one that would prevent the reform of the country. [[Voice from the hall: Let them reform themselves.]] We can't let that happen. We cannot disappoint Poles. We will carry out our program. We'll restore constitutional order. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Down with the commune!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform leaves the room]] Well, the Civic Platform feels bad in a country where constitutional order prevails. [[Not in which PiS reigns.]] Thank you very much. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] [[Mr Krystyna Skowrońska gives a copy of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland to Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz]] [[Please, sir, this is for you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u209	Thank you, sir. Mrs Sledzińska-Katarasińska. In what way, Member? Madam, I apologise before I give you the floor, please tell me how you want to perform. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Formal application.]] With a formal application, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! I've been in this House the longest... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Conclusion, motion!]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a motion!]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...an official Member since 1991. I haven't heard such a disgraceful speech since 1991, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I haven't seen such disgraceful behavior... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a formal conclusion.]] ...and I didn't see a marshal act like that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u211	I'm saying it wasn't a formal motion, it was a statement. Therefore, I do not allow any more formal applications. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed that it will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the joint discussion on these items on the agenda. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast will be the first to speak. [[Corrigendum.]] When you act on behalf of the club, you will be able to refer to Mr Peterowicz's speech. [[Sit down!]] [[The voice from the hall: You stand and look ugly... I'm disgusted by the aesthetic appearance.]] [[Get your shit together.]] [[Formal conclusion, Mr. Marshal.]] Please, Mr Marek Ast. [[Where's the democratic package, marshal you're talking about?]] Ladies and gentlemen, please don't make me do the art. 175 to those Members who are interfering with the proceedings. [[Voice from the room: Are you leaving? You're staying?]] Please, sir. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! I would ask that Members of the Civic Platform be reassured.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, allow Mr Ast to speak. There you go, Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my views on the draft resolutions on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolutions of the Polish Parliament of 8 October 2015 on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: He doesn't make it.]] These draft resolutions are contained in prints Nos 42, 43, 44, 45 and 46. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully agrees with the argument put forward by the Member of the applicant [[Applause]] Stanisław Piotrowicz. I will add to this argument only that, indeed, the sole purpose of these draft resolutions is to condone the state which, as a result of the unconstitutional actions of the then coalition, led to the choice of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal with a legal defect. Today, as Mr Piotrowicz has already said, we have presented the opinions of excellent constitutionalists on the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Court. These opinions are devastating in their assessment of that law. This law was non-constitutional and the choice of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal on the basis of that law was also non-constitutional. In this situation, the Sejm has no choice but to repair these faulty actions. The purpose of these draft resolutions, as I said, is to create an opportunity to remedy the situation of the post and to lead to the election of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in an implausible way. In this situation, of course, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I ask the High House to adopt the resolutions submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u215	Thank you, sir. The formal proposal is made by Monika Wielichowska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I request a 15-minute break for the club. [[Voice from the hall: But you are not here!]] [[Voice from the hall: What? Where's the club?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u217	Member of the Commission, please tell the club that I will not put this proposal to the vote and will not announce a break because we voted [[Applause]] I'm gonna ask you to take a break. Right now, I don't see a legitimate need to give the club permission to request a break. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u218	Mr. Marshal... [[They're gone anyway.]] ...but it was a good custom for this House that for the club breaks were announced. Please take a break for the club before Mr Kropiwnicki makes his appearance. [[You're already gone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u219	Madam, I have given you my position. There you go, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[But the club is already on break, Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! The situation is becoming more difficult and more conflicting, although you really started talking about the democratic package, about the need to talk. And it turns out today you're breaking all sanctity, including the constitution. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] For this constitution, for freedom in this constitution... [[Voice from the hall: ……]] ...people fought... [[You can talk to each other.]] ...they died in Poznań, Radom, Gdansk, Uncle, and you're all messing around, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] 'Cause you're doing this just to... [[A voice from the room: Your hair will not fall off your head!]] ...to trample the freedom of the Constitution with your own shoes to break... [[Voice from the room: Who are you serving?]] ...the last organ that can resist it. And, Mr. President, isn't it really a shame that the U.S. Attorney of the dark '80s today is talking about restoring constitutional order, insulting judges... [[Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, ……]] ...is insulting the remnants... decency? This really is devastating for democracy for years. Every power passes away and you pass away. [[Okay, okay.]] And don't count on you becoming Orban, Lukashenka, Putin in one edition. It's the Putinian standards you're really developing, so the master would be proud of you. You might have someone to learn from... [[What master?]] ...but you're embarrassing Europe and the European Union... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh!....]] ...because it's really... [[Voice from the Chamber: Wrong Parliament!]] ...a gruesome solution. Paweł Włodkowic in the 14th century said that they should rule the laws, not the people, defend Poland against the Teutonic Knights, and today... [[Voice from the room: 15 minutes.]] ...we must defend Poland against the dictatorship of the PiS. It's gruesome what happens to us. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You sentence the tribunal to subjugate its authority. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Yeah...]] You are hoping to buy Poles with promises that you will give 500 zlotys that you will raise something, lower something. But you can't destroy freedom. You can't destroy freedom. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] in Poland. These resolutions, which you will even make, you can do anything today, will have no legal effect. They are simply ineffective and irrelevant, because the resolutions adopted by the Sejm of the previous term of office cannot be annulled. Most can do anything, but only within the limits of the law. Read the constitution you vowed to, maybe unwittingly, read it, there's still time for that. You're really doing everything you can to destroy freedom in Poland, but you're not gonna make it. Thank you very much. Krzysztof Brejza now. [[Good night!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u221	Thank you. The remaining time for the Civic Platform Club will be completed by Mr Krzysztof Brejza's speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago, Mr Piotrowicz said here: It must be made clear that the Constitutional Tribunal has established its position in the Polish state. Today, not only politicians, but also citizens are following business... [[Voice from the room: Until you broke it.]] ... The Constitutional Tribunal, comment on the judgments and attach great importance to them. I have a question: when were you telling the truth and when were you lying? Because that's not what you said today. [[The bombings, the Civic Platform.]] Ladies and gentlemen, from one of the Members of the PiS an hour ago, your position was taken in this Chamber. You said that the highest authority in Poland is the Sejm, but this is the password that lies in your minds, which lies in your consciousness, which has already been expressed in a legal act which said that the highest authority of the state is the Sejm of the Polish People's Republic, that is art. 20 of this constitution. Sadly, you return to the principle of unity of power in Poland, the principle of imposed... [[Voice from the room: 20th century.]] ...by the Stalinist system. I'll quote you the rule... [[The voice from the hall: Christopher, but then the power was in Moscow.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u223	Mr President, in your speech, you deviate from the agenda. I draw your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u224	Mr. Marshal, am I deviated from the subject matter of the discussion? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] After all, we're talking about the principle of division of power...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u225	I'm bringing you up to speed.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u226	...fundamental principle...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u227	I'm bringing you up to speed.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u228	...for this country's system. [[Voice from the room: Ad rem.]] So let's get to the point. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Listen to me. [[Mr Paweł Kukiz puts the flags on the desktops so that two white and red flags stand before him, and on the desktop of the absent Member of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform - two flags of the European Union]] Listen, because you probably don't know this: "So that all states, citizens' freedom and order of the community in equal weight will always remain, the three governments of the Polish people should submit and, by the will of the law of this nation, they will submit forever. What's this? Of what? [[Voice from the hall: Bravo, Paul!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is the Constitution of May 3rd. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's the rule of division of power, the rule you're putting up with today. Today's gonna be history. Students will write master's papers, there will be habilitations about your return [[♪ The bell ♪]] the principle of unity of power. Busola fooled you, that's the wrong direction - you chose the east. Thank you. [[The voice from the room: But malicious.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u229	Thank you, sir. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Posel Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You've been telling me what the battle is all about today. This battle is indeed about politicising the Constitutional Tribunal. And at this point, it's done with your hands. This is really shocking to me, because you're doing exactly what the Civic Platform did. You're criticizing the Civic Platform... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ...for not being able to control her lust for power, and you do the same by breaking the standards of a democratic rule of law just as the Civic Platform broke them. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And you are the PO-PiS.]] What you're... [[Voice from the room: Quiet!]] ...you propose, this is really democratic cannibalism. A democratically elected parliament should not destroy democracy, and you are doing it. Resolutions on the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal may not be amended by means of a resolution. [[Any resolution can be amended.]] You're talking about convalescence, repairing the law, but you're not doing it, you're just repealing this resolution. What you're doing is such a primitive revenge: an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Return to the simplest law from centuries ago, the Hammurabi Code. PO did us wrong, we now Poland wrong. [[Voice from the room: We're fixing.]] But Poland will pay for this bill. You're destroying the foundations... [[We're fixing it.]] ...a democratic rule of law. In this blindness, you lose what is most important - democratic standards. According to Art. 7, the principle of legalism, all state bodies act on the basis and within the limits of the law. The Sejm is also an organ to operate within the limits of the law. It does not appear from the Constitutional Tribunal Act, both of the former and the State, that the Sejm may end the term of office of the Judges by way of a resolution. And your resolution, and you admit it, is leading to this, to the end of the term of office of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Article 180 of the Constitution states: judges are indeterminate - and this is what the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal refer to. By means of a legal trick, you are introducing an additional condition for the removal of judges, and you are not even hiding from it. Article 36 of the Constitutional Court Act, and the old and the new Act, specifies four conditions, the State introduces the fifth. And indeed, there was one more annoying thing today. Mr Naimski said that the resolutions of the Supreme Chamber need not be consulted. You say the mandate to act gave you the election. The Seym is not the supreme authority. The Sejm is one of the three equivalent authorities, that is what the article speaks of. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Let me remind you: The regime of the Republic is based on the division and balance of legislative power, executive authority and judicial authority. And just the assassination of any of these authorities, whether it's judicial authority or executive authority or whatever, is a coup d'état, which is exactly what we're dealing with right now. [[Applause]] If you say that the Sejm is the highest authority, it is indeed as the PO said, you are quoting the Stalinist constitution of 1952, its art. 1. But we do know that it was a lie, because it was really the political office that made the decisions. Is that really what we want in Poland? Let us consider whether we want the party president's decision to be a universal law? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Constitutional rights and freedoms were to be a barrier just before totalitarian governments, but in the meantime they became the first victims of your attack. By moving on to substantive considerations, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I would like to draw attention to this... [[Finally.]] ...that the wording itself, which is in the Petitum resolution, [[Applause]] the state is talking about finding that there is no legal force, it is not right to be. The state is talking about the consequences of a certain legal event, but what is the cause of this incident? [[It's a violation of the Constitution by the Platform.]] The nullity of the resolution or the repeal of this resolution. What lies at the beginning of this? [[Go back to school, learn.]] If you are referred to as nullity, the State itself in support of its request states that the Sejm does not have the right to annul the resolution. So what are we talking about right now? And if it doesn't, on what grounds? You say procedural errors, but what? There's no specifics here. There's no specifics. also in the explanatory memorandum. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: You should have listened.]] I listened very carefully, sir. I really listened very carefully. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would also like to point out that this whole situation can be illustrated by such an example of ad absurd. We can cancel the Ombudsman for real at this point, because he is also elected by resolution, and the President of the NBP. You may actually have this in your next set of plans, but let's see if that's what this is about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: We haven't thought about it yet.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm really asking you to be decency, the one you've been calling for. I would like a decent vote on these resolutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u232	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Even a month ago, we were all elected by Poles to sit in this Chamber to sit in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, and thus, according to the Constitution, to form part of the body of the legislative authority, not to the folk tribunal or the court, and it gives rise to an impression, looking at what is happening in this House today, [[Joy in the Chamber]] that the PiS together with a quiet, albeit very helpful coalitionist [[Applause]] makes a kind of hood court over democratic institutions that operate in our country. For starters, the Constitutional Tribunal. This raises the categoric opposition of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club. Why? [[Voice from the room: Why?]] The resolution on the election of the 5 judges of the tribunal was taken, ladies and gentlemen, in a proper manner... [[Voice from the room: Oh ho.]] [[PSL was involved.]] ...in accordance with the procedures assigned. The correct retroactive resolution cannot be repealed. Such a possibility would theoretically exist only in the event that the earlier choice of judges of the Tribunal was not in accordance with the legal provisions, and this was not the case. [[She just did.]] If we had accepted the logic of PiS and the silent coalitioner, we would have come to the paradoxical view that with retroactive effect any resolutions of the Sejm could have been repealed, even taken many years ago. On this basis, for example, a resolution on the choice of judges of the Tribunal, who have been taking judicial positions for years and are ruling, could be repealed. At that time, all proceedings involving them would be subject to a plea of nullity. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] The value in itself is legal certainty and the principle of the protection of rights rightly acquired. The resolution adopted in October 2015 on the election of 5 judges of the Tribunal is correct, in accordance with the rules of law and as such in force. There is no mode or possibility of cancellation, cancellation or amendment. Neither the Constitution nor the laws provide for such an option. The adoption of a different interpretation would be non-constitutional, contrary to fundamental principles of the system, including. the principle of a democratic rule of law quoted here today. But I have the impression that the majority of the Seym, the PiS and the silent coalition are, you are immune to these arguments. [[Voice from the room: Good impression.]] You're immune to these arguments. You accuse and you can already see in advance that the tribunal will interfere with your governments, as if you are already showing the future. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Various were - I would like to remind you - judgments of this tribunal, which you accuse of politicisation, kindness towards the Platform, the PSL and all saints. I will merely remind the honourable majority of the Sejm's judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which maintained in force a serious and severe financial sanction against the Polish People's Party. [[Voice from the hall: God's holy...]] On average, it looks like kindness. [[You shouldn't exist anymore. Mirror.]] But further, ladies and gentlemen, in this way of thinking, I ask the majority of the Parliament present in this Chamber: Will we in a moment like this proceed to the resolution on the election of the Ombudsman... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] ...President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, General Data Protection Officer? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Well, that's the question that's born on its own. [[Voice from the room: If necessary, we will do so.]] In our opinion, in the opinion of the Polish People's Party... [[Voice from the hall: Who cares?]] ...changes in the Constitutional Court, hastily procedated, must look forward to a public hearing in the European Parliament, not to ridicule the Polish state, but to... [[The voice in the room: He's talking out of his mind.]] ...to expose those procedures which are in strong conflict with those pillars on which Europe and the civilised states that form this Europe are based. And last but not least, I'd like to dedicate... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]] ...Tweet of Mrs Joanna Lichocka, today's tweet. I quote: As if someone were accusing again of assassinating the rule of law and so on, I will give a confidential hint that we are negotiating Bereza Kartuska's lease with Belarus. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] That's a very bad joke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marek Ast... [[With a formal application.]] ...with a formal application. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I request the Law and Justice, of course, after the debate has been closed, to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolutions. [[Applause]] And I would also like to point out that these resolutions do not speak of annulment, but of finding that there is no legal force, and that is the difference. [[Applause]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: No legal force.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u235	Thank you very much. I draw the attention of the High House only to one thing, that we are not debating the repeal of the resolution, but, I quote: the statement of the lack of legal power of the resolution. And that's the fundamental difference. Let's get to the questions. [[Objection!]] [[Voice from the hall: There is a voice of opposition!]] At the moment, I am not voting on this formal proposal. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. At first reading, the Rules of Procedure require that questions be admitted. Mr. Tomasz Nowak has the first vote. [[Voice from the room: Four people.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Come on, Mr. Zbigniew Konwiński. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Come on, Mr. Jan Grabiec. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mrs. Kinga Gajewska. [[They're gone.]] [[Voices from the room: There isn't one either.]] Mr. Marcin Święcicki. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Mrs. Isabella Leszczyn. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Mr. Arkadius Myrch. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the hall: On octopus!]] Mr. Tomasz Lenz. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] Mrs. Elizabeth Stupid. [[Voices from the O.R.:]] [[Voices from the hall: There is no room!]] Mrs Elizabeth Stępień. Ladies and gentlemen, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would ask you to keep these remarks to yourself. [[No, it's not. It's just there.]] There you go. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo!
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u237	Excuse me, miss. Time - 1 minute, just, ladies and gentlemen, do not abuse the courtesy of the speaker. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] After a minute, I'll pay attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u238	Mr. Marshal, one sentence. I would just like to ask why the applicant considers that there has been a breach of the rules on the appointment procedure and how this infringement has occurred. Thank you very much. [[But he did.]] That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u239	Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Nice question.]] Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voices from the hall: There is no room!]] [[Voices from the hall: There it is!]] [[Member Krzysztof Mieszkowski shows the sign of victoria]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[Quiet, please.]] [[Voice from the room: To be or not to be.]] I'd like to ask... [[Voice from the room: It's called building tension.]] ...in fact, to express such a doubt: Do you... Thank you so much for the silence. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: You're welcome.]] Do you want to bring about civil war in Poland? [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u241	Thank you very much. I inform you that at this point, I am closing the list of people who have been asked questions. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, my God!]] Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: Can not, is reported.]] Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, Modern Club. There isn't. Mr Michael... [[Voices from the O.R.: There he is!]] [[Voice from the room: He's running.]] I'm sorry. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. I'm a debutante, I admit, but I'm amazed at your mode of work. We work at night, it's 11:05 p.m. [[That's how you work in the Seym.]] Do you think we have to make such difficult decisions at this hour? [[Yes.]] Isn't it democratically possible, as the Prime Minister promised in her exposé, to discuss what is important for Poland? [[Voice from the room: We are discussing.]] Do your constituents really want such an ambaras in politics? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[It wasn't a good debut.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u243	I merely kindly inform you that the Member has no limited working time, i.e. he should work 24 hours a day. [[Applause]] There you go, Mr Michał Stasiński, the Modern Club. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: Villains.]] Thank you. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to read something to you. [[Voice from the room: But it doesn't have time.]] [[Voice from the room: Question...]] Listen to me. [[Voices from the room: Question!]] The president used to say you're supposed to be quiet, like everyone else says, so listen to the president. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I haven't started yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u245	Member, but ask the question so that you do not deviate from...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u246	I'm asking you, listen. No PSL in the Bureau, no rotating presidency in the Special Services Committee... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Question!]] ...the removal of PSL from the Special Services Commission, the proceeding of the Constitutional Court Act at night... [[Voice from the room: So what?]] ...no representatives of the Modern and PSL in the KRS and the KRP, no annulment of the election of judges in the Constitutional Court in the form of a resolution... [[A voice from the room: Right!]] ...censor - is this a democratic package, Mr President? Aren't you ashamed? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's my question: Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u247	Madam, this is a question. Not about that. That's the question. Not about that. Thank you very much. [[Woman, behave yourself. Go to your seat. Sit down!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u248	That's the question about it. Mr. Marshal, by the way, I'd like to say that you should be our marshal unbiased, unbiased. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voices from the room: An independent!]] Unbiased. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u249	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Pudłowski, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u250	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's a little calming. Like the rest of the Modern, this is the first time I've been in the Seym and I'm doing my job very seriously. [[Voice from the room: Like us.]] And I know you are, too. My question is about value. [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] The values that unite us all, I think - love for our homeland, belief that we can build stronger Poland together. 200 Members in this term of office are new. I'm asking them not to get this mutual dislike, this laughter, because it's serious and we work for people who believe that we're dealing with things that are important. And you believe that. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] But maybe the way we do it could be different. If we share the same values, let us wisely direct our thoughts and words to others. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] [[Welcome to Law and Justice.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u251	Thank you. Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Voices from the room: Time. Time flies.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u252	Ladies and gentlemen! Knowing that the Constitutional Tribunal will rule against the law adopted at the previous sitting, you want to take over the Constitutional Tribunal by means of resolutions which do not have any legal value, but put Poles before the fact made. The judges of the Constitutional Tribunal should start their work in November. They didn't just start because President Duda didn't take their vows by applying the law of a veto that is not in the Polish constitution. The President has no right of veto over the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Where in the Polish Constitution is the veto right for the President? What would have happened if the Marshal of the Sejm hadn't called the National Assembly and taken the oath from President Duda? Wouldn't you put him before the State Court? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Isn't preventing judges from working in the Constitutional Tribunal breaking their immunity, their rights of irrevocability? You're breaking the constitution without any shame, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] They do it at night so the Poles won't see it. [[Applause, ringtone]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u253	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am also a debutante in this House, and I will honestly admit that this is not how I imagined the first days of my office here. [[And the last one?]] When I listened to President Duda at first, when I listened to the Prime Minister's exposé, I thought that maybe those fears of people who said that when the PiS came to power, it would just be the end of the world, they're just fairy tales. [[Voice from the Chamber: And you voted against.]] What I'm trying to say is that these aren't exactly fairy tales. The question to you is, where is the line you won't cross? [[Voice from the room: Breaking the law.]] It would be good to know to prepare for the worst. I hope we find out there's a line you won't cross. I know you're not gonna like this, Mr. President of the Constitutional Tribunal is no longer here, but I would like to apologize for the words that came out here for those ridiculous smiles that were on your faces. [[Applause]] It was just not right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is not how you respect the highest offices in the state. I wouldn't want such ridiculous smiles... [[Voice from the room: We know that.]] ...and those were the words that were said to President Duda. I wouldn't want him to see this happen. I hope that you will sometimes consider further action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u255	Please. Mr Richard Petru, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal, that the person standing there turn off that light? It's hurting our eyes. You don't have to record. This isn't a movie studio.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: You also recorded.]] [[Voice from the room: For fifteen minutes he stood from that side.]] Please, sir, please. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a few questions. First of all, what's the rush? Can't you wait until December 3rd for the tribunal to decide? What's the hurry? Secondly, I have the impression that you are testing the limit of the strength of Polish democracy. I feel like there's one historic moment. I hope you know what you're doing. [[It's true.]] The president knows, but do you know? [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] [[Voice from the room: Also.]] I'm not sure. We'll see in four years. I'm not sure you know what you're doing. The question is, why couldn't you wait, why the rush? There wasn't supposed to be revenge. The applicant says that you must make a good change for Poland, reforms that would block the Constitutional Tribunal. Tell me what kind of laws that would block the Constitutional Tribunal that you have in your head. This is a question both for you and for the Prime Minister. I'm curious, it must have been laws that might be against the constitution. Tell me what your plan is. What's your plan other than the one you presented in the exposé? I don't know who can answer the question of why this haste. Patience. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u257	Please. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Members of the ruling party! By raising your hand behind this resolution, you break the constitution. Those words have already been said many times from this pulpit. You've waited eight years for this moment, but for God's sake... [[For God's sake?]] ...the desire for blood cannot blind you to such a clear violation of the law. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Revenge is not an excuse or an excuse for destroying the Polish state. What else are you going to annul? Entry of Poland into the European Union? [[Voice from the room: Good.]] Mr. President! Prime Minister! Despite different political views, you are the elite of our nation, you are educated, you should set an example for others. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's true.]] I'm embarrassed as a young messenger that I look at your reaction when people come here and talk to you, and they turn to us without political prejudice because we're new here, and you're just laughing. You have no respect, no class. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm really sorry. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: She's about to cry.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I, too, am a new Member, a Member who debuts in Parliament, and I also sadly observe what is happening here, this dispute about the tribunal that has been with us since the beginning of this term of office. We use the upper-floor wording about the need to protect democracy, while I have the impression that the motives of our actions or actions are very simple. The previous coalition began this problem, it is true, it has decided to take a step without precedent, setting up two members of the tribunal, doing us in this role, serving us, Members of the 8th term of office. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are you proposing right now? The State proposes to elect all five judges of the Tribunal. I have a question: How will you ensure the pluralism of this tribunal? Because he should and must be pluralistic, so Poles, citizens trust him. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u261	Thank you, sir. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u262	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, please tell us what laws you are preparing, that they require the destruction of our legal system. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Someone has already asked this question.]] Tell me if there are any limits to your respect for our constitutional organs of law, for it is clear that you have no respect for them or their representatives, even for judges. [[Member Dorota Arciszewska-Mielewczyk: Consider who you are defending.]] I ask the question: Does the introduction of this populist program and this promise of 500 PLN per child, from which you are so effectively withdrawing, require the ruin of the Constitutional Tribunal? What are your next projects gonna be? I am looking at this with great concern and I hope that this long-term plan for the destruction of the state will not succeed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u263	Please. Mrs Ewa Lieder, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u264	It's pronounced Leader.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u265	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u266	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Prime Minister, The term of office of the Judge of the Tribunal may be terminated before the end of his term of office in the event of the death of the Judge... [[The term of office hasn't begun yet.]] ...his resignation from the office, his conviction of the judge of the tribunal by a final judgment of the court for an intentional offence prosecuted by a public prosecution or a deliberate tax offence, and his final decision to give the judge of the tribunal of his own motion. Where's the legal basis for subpoenaing the judge? So my question is: On what legal basis can the Sejm appeal the judges of the tribunal? [[Applause]] Wouldn't it be better to wait for the Constitutional Court to review the bill by the PO? That would be right and fair, and fair behavior. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: But the term of office has not begun.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u267	Please. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! During the exposé of the President, the words of reconciliation fell - the end of the rematch, respect for the opposition. I believed it. As you can see, nothing came out of it, we have a brutal display of strength and a demonstration of the place for the opposition - you have nothing to say, no illusions. [[You've said that before.]] What's that for, Mr. President? All the votes are won anyway. [[Voice from the hall: Why are you talking?]] We're hearing again about the collusion of the elite, the media, which you're about to cut into the trunk. [[And that's true.]] And that's true, that's right. Now it's time for the legal community. My question is this: Is this the dialogue between power and opposition during the 8th term of the Sejm? Today, the only power without limitation is the PiS, and there is nothing left over this power. [[The voters have decided!]] [[Voters.]] It's very dangerous. Constitutional order [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the order of law and justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u269	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator in Article. 1 clarifies: "Messengers and senators shall carry out their mandate on the basis of the good of the Nation. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] A good nation. [[Voice from the O.R.: Finally.]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] Where do you see the good of the nation? Where do you see this nation's welfare... [[In law and justice.]] ...in fact, by assassinating the constitutional order of the Republic of Poland? [[We're going back.]] I don't get it. [[Voice from the room: Returning order.]] I thought, when I first came to Parliament, to the first sitting, that we would be dealing with what Poles wanted - the repair of regulations, the organization of social and economic life. And meanwhile, we're dealing with a vendetta, that's what it's called, a vendetta that's organized by one political group of the other political group. I won't. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He told me where it started. But I'd like to ask you this question... [[A voice from the room: Or maybe it would say so.]] ...what it is... [[Voice from the room: Tell me.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u271	Mr President, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u272	Mr. Marshal, I'll finish. May I? [[Voice from the room: Thank you!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u273	A short, simple sentence, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u274	A short, simple question: Where is this perpetuum mobile, what are the rules of this perpetuum mobile, repair... [[That's a tough question.]] ...and depoliticize the tribunal when five judges are actually replaced by five of their own people in this court? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It always is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u275	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Less than two weeks ago, each of the Members present in this Chamber took an oath, vowing to respect the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. [[Voice from the hall: Miss...]] To me, it was a very important oath. I ask Mr Marshal and the applicants of the project for information on the question: On the basis of which provision in the Constitution or what provision of law do we revoke the resolution? Alternatively, I ask you to answer: Why is the vow made by your Members no longer valid? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] [[Voice from the room: Really deep.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u277	Thank you. Mr Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In democracy, you can't want everything, and you want everything. In a democratic state of law are necessary institutions which, although elected by political parties, are independent of those political parties. Being a majority does not slow down from thinking - thinking about Poland and the good of Poland. There will be another authority after you, other parties will come. And then what? You spoil the custom, you spoil the good law. My question: What provisions have been infringed in relation to the procedure for adopting resolutions concerning the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, what are you referring to in the resolutions? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: you said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Last week under the so-called. The democratic package you have given us the Constitutional Court Act. This law has taunted the principles of good legislation. Among other things, you introduced an article. 137a, which refers to the judges of the tribunal whose term expires in 2015, i.e. that provision was an unobtrusive provision, because in the current legal state the Constitutional Tribunal has 15 judges and that number of judges is now present. Therefore, you want to once again in violation of the law this time to state the lack of legal force of the resolutions. And this is the country's run to make it clear that the Constitutional Court Act [[♪ The bell ♪]] She wasn't affected by the nullity defect. And now the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u281	But no, no, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u282	How far can you go in the devastation of the rule of law, our common homeland, Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u283	Ladies and gentlemen, I encourage you first to ask the question and then to justify it, not to comment, which is very often different from the point of view of the case. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: But anyone can say what they want.]] Mr Janusz Sanocki with a formal proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u284	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Those were really supposed to be questions, and these aren't questions, they're insinuations. I'm very disappointed. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] This is an insinuation stream against the applicants who put up here... You have to believe in intentions. Me, for example. Mr Peterowicz's speech was very convincing. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you must not insinuate every step of the way, in every speech, that there is an assassination attempt, that they lie, that they cheat, what intentions you have, and what other laws you want. Ladies and gentlemen, this is infantilism combined with demagogy. [[Yes, sir, you're right.]] I move to the marshal to end what is not a round of questions, but is a round of propaganda. I propose that this debate be concluded because these are not questions. [[Voice from the Chamber: Please provide the legal basis for the proposal.]] [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u285	Thank you, sir, but I cannot accept this as a formal proposal. Therefore, we move on to the next question. Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Listening to Mr Piotrowicz's speech, it felt like an old Pezetpeer school of speeches. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It felt very good. [[Applause]] But speaking of questions... [[Voice from the room: You don't remember this.]] Do you remember the term "fallandisation"? I have the impression that President Kaczyński accepted this method while working at President Lech Wałęsa's office. He worked earlier than Lech Falandish, but it can be seen that the spirit of fallandization of the law was floating earlier, because we are actually dealing with a situation very similar to that one. Well, then Lech Falandish proved that the president could appeal the members of the National Radio and Television Council because he has such a whim, and today Law and Justice prove that he can repeal the resolution only because he has such a whim. We're dealing with... [[Voice from the room: Take...]] ...in fact, with such a fallandisation of the law in the worst possible way. And just like that term went down in the history of Lech Falandish, yes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] history will remember what happened today as a law-pitoring. I hope you're aware of that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u288	He has no power over the PiS. The power of the PiS is the power of power that can do anything. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus!]] [[Voice from the room: We already know that.]] I do not think that's what Poles are talking about, who have voted for you many times in the last elections to this House. What is happening here today is beyond my wildest expectations and many of my colleagues. As you can see, many words are missing. Are you aware that what you are trying to do today can turn against the state and Polish democracy in the future? Is there anything we can say to get you what we want to say, and is there anything we can do to stop you from doing what you want to do today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We have a parliamentary mandate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u289	Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u290	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I no longer had any delusions today that in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal, Law and Justice supported by Paul Kukiz's group would come to its conclusion. [[Voice from the hall: Speak of yourselves, not of us.]] Therefore, me and my colleagues are standing here in front of you, asking questions, speaking in turn about the assassination of democracy, the arrogance of power, the spoiling of the democratic achievements of Poland. We do not do this in the hope that our words will come to the consciences of the Members of Law and Justice. We're doing this to give the Poles a witness, show them who's here today where the ZOMO used to be. These are your words, Mr Kaczyński. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Oh, baby, baby...]] Poles today see who is defending democracy in this room. Yes, today Poles see who is defending this democracy, [[Applause]] And who represses her absolutely? [[Who?]] Today we are in a minority, we will protest and appeal. There'll be more of us soon enough. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] [[Good.]] Do you really want to go into history as a government whose golden corner [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's only a rope left? The Poles won't forgive you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u291	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u292	The Poles won't forgive you. Aren't you just ashamed? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u293	Thank you, Member. Mr Marek Ruciński, the Modern Club, has the floor. I remind you that the subject of questioning is a draft resolution on the finding that there is no legal force for the resolution of the Sejm of 8 October concerning the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, so that you can speak. [[Voice from the room: It's hard to ask of them.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I promise there will be a question, Marshal. When I heard a few years ago that Budapest would be transferred to Warsaw, it seemed to me that this was a joke. My question is because there is Warsaw, but there is also a country, there is Poland: Are we also threatened with the hungarianization of Poland? I appeal to everyone that Poland should become Polish and that Poland should stay Polish, and because I am a doctor, Mr. Marshal, I will say with all due respect to your high table: believe me that 24-hour deliberations are not physiological for the strongest man. [[Then why are you stalling?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u295	I personally share the view of the Member on this matter. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but I'm quite serious. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for you. You're still saying that the Platform has seized the tribunal with its five judges. I ask, Will the new judges be righteous and just, or will the only judges, as my colleague said, be? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u297	Thank you. Mr Piotr Misilo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr. President! High Izbo! 26 October 2012 General Meeting of PHPN... [[Two thousand twelve.]] ...chosen by resolution to his President, Zbigniew Bońk. I have this question: could you make a draft resolution repealing this resolution during the next session? [[Applause]] This may not cure the Polish ball, but it will at least allow us to hope that Mr Ryszard Czarnecki will take this position. To paraphrase, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the words of Winston Churchill never, never, never, never give up... [[Exactly.]] ...I'll say that we, ladies and gentlemen, will not give up. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[So do we!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u299	Thank you, sir. I do not see Mrs Krystyna Skowronska. I cannot see Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska. I don't see Mr Zbigniew Aichler. Mrs Bożena Kaminska, I do not see. I don't see Mr Wojciech the King. Mr Tomasz Lenz, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u300	And you can see me, as you can see. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Members of Law and Justice. Don't they think what's happening today is a constitutional violation? I'll remind you of the article. 87 point 1 of the Constitution: The sources of the generally applicable law of the Republic of Poland are: - and here note - Constitution, laws, ratified international agreements and regulations. Tell me where the resolutions are in the Constitution. [[The case law of the tribunal requires...]] Do you think the Constitutional Tribunal will have any doubt that this whole hump you're doing today will be voided? After all, even in the Constitution it is not stated that a resolution can change the law. Have you not read the constitution? You don't know her? [[You don't know the case law.]] Pay attention to that. You've made a fundamental mistake. You didn't read in the Constitution that a resolution couldn't change the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have another question for my colleagues at the Kukiz club15. [[Voice from the room: Time's up!]] Literally a moment, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u301	But, sir, this is a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u302	Mr. President, if you'll allow me... [[Voice from the room: Time's up! Time's up!]] ...maybe I'll turn to him. I respect and appreciate the fact that we are discussing the future of our constitution, the attempt to change, the introduction of one-mandate districts, the socialization of the constitution, but imagine... [[Voice from the room: Time's up! Not about that!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u303	Mr President, you can address the question to the applicant.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u304	...that the new constitution is in force that she is the supreme act of law, an act worthy of respect, acts and someone breaks it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u305	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u306	Or are you going to agree to this too? [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u307	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u308	Today's constitution is in effect. Note that sometime in the future someone might want to break it. It should not be allowed to break the Constitution in any situation. I'm surprised you put your hand in it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, turn off the microphone!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u309	I would ask no more abuse, no abuse of courtesy in this regard. That's how you make me break the rules. Mr Paweł Grabowski, the Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll admit, with some surprise, I'm listening to this discussion, these different innuendoes, but as a political scientist, I'm not surprised. But apart from being a politician, I'm also a lawyer. I simply looked into the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, in which it is clearly written, in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (1) states that applications for the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm within 30 days before the end of his term of office. Although there is a revised law, a new law on the Constitutional Court, which assumes that this deadline is 3 months, but if there are two different sounding provisions concerning the same facts, I am not surprised at the attempt to repeal but to conclude that they do not have the legal force of a resolution which has been taken unlawfully. That's it. Thank you very much. [[That's right, exactly.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u311	Thank you, sir. Mr Kornel Morawiecki, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u312	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The law is an important thing, but the law is not sacred. You asked for decency, didn't you? The good of the nation is above the law. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] If this right is disturbing, we must not view it as something that we cannot violate, which we cannot change. The law is... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What are you saying?]] That's what I'm saying. The law is meant to serve us. A law that does not serve the nation, that is lawlessness. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and the Kukiz Posel Club15 stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u313	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much to the marshal for this extremely simple, short and very true opinion, for evaluating the situation. [[He punctuated the whole thing, why would they want that exaltation?]] [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: Mr Marshal...]] Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, a representative of the applicants, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Many questions were just an excuse for unauthorized accusations and invectives, but I will try to answer those questions that I managed to grasp in the thick of my words. In particular, you are asking, and rightly so, what rules have been violated. First of all, the procedure was violated, because instead of proceeding according to a single legal act, a little according to the rules of procedure and a little according to the law. [[Yes, sir.]] Such legal action is unacceptable and must have such an effect as the loss of legal force. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] You are also forgetting, in your concern for other authorities, that Parliament enjoys autonomy and that no one has the right, apart from Parliament, as I said before, to control its actions. I would like to answer the question in this way: Why do we own Parliament... The Constitutional Tribunal. Well, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has already been embezzled. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Court!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'm sorry, the Constitutional Court... [[Voices from the room: Bravo! Bravo!]] [[You guys are acting like Palikots.]] [[Voice from the room: These are Modern Palikots.]] The Constitutional Tribunal has already been taken over. I was talking about it last week. Let me remind you that 15 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal 14 are on the initiative of the Civic Platform. Don't you see that? [[Voice from the room: They see!]] When you ask about the shape of the future parliament... [[Voice from the courtroom: Court!]] ...and whether there's going to be pluralism, that's what we're going to do. [[Voices from the courtroom: Court! Court!]] Excuse me, the Constitutional Court. Don't be surprised, it's because... [[Voice from the room: Late time.]] [[Voice from the room: You had to adopt a resolution...]] If you hadn't asked for different breaks like that, it would have been quicker. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Tomorrow you can.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't tell me.]] I'm looking for those questions. [[Voice from the room: There was no more.]] [[Bravo, Staszek.]] [[Voice from the room: Losers.]] [[Voice from the room: Come on, Stasio.]] [[Voice from the room: The rest were invectives.]] Now. There have been accusations - why we are interrupting the term of judge. First of all, we don't interrupt anything... [[Voice from the room: It hasn't started yet.]] ...because the jury selection process has not been completed. [[That's right, exactly.]] The fact that it was not completed is based on the June 2015 Act. There, in the bill, it is clearly said: The chosen person makes a vow. [[Yes, sir. Yes, sir.]] The judge doesn't take a vow. [[Yes, sir.]] This is not an oversight of that legislature, but aware, as you can see, of the procedure, because in the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control... Actually, let me rephrase that. The President of the Supreme Chamber of Control is taking a vow. Not the candidate, not the person elected president - the President takes the oath. Not the person elected as an ombudsman, and the ombudsman takes the oath. In this case, it is written differently: The person chosen for the judge takes the oath. June's legislator clearly emphasizes that the chosen person is not yet a judge. [[Applause]] The judge's selection process has not ended and, as I have already quoted, the constitutionalists' opinions show, in this case we are dealing with the principle of discounting. The process has not ended, therefore the present Parliament is obliged to carry out this process from the beginning. You're talking in your questions about aggression, revenge, retaliation. That kind of feeling in my group is completely alien to me. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] And I would like to stress that because of aggression and political hatred, a representative of Law and Justice was murdered. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] It's worth remembering that. I think I basically answered all the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: The wiser ones.]] [[Voice from the room: There was no more here.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u315	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft resolutions. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of draft resolutions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of these projects? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No one's checking in. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution from print No 42. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 42 will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 311 Members voted. One Member abstained from voting 270 against - 40. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The Sejm adopted a resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015. 1038. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution from print no. 43. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print 43 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 317 Members voted. 273 Members, against 43 Members, abstained from voting. [[We're gonna win the last three.]] I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015, item. 1039. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution from print No 44. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 44, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 316 Members voted. 273 votes against - 42, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015, item. 1041. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution from print 45. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 45 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 315 Members voted. 272 Members voted against - 42, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015, item. 1042. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution from print 46. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 46 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 316 Members voted. There were 273 Members who voted against - 42, and 1 Member abstained. The Sejm adopted a resolution on the determination of the lack of legal force of the resolution of the Polish Sejm of 8 October 2015 on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, published in the Polish Monitor of 23 October 2015. 1040. The Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs Committee submitted a report on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament contained in print No 47. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, objections were raised to the completion of the agenda for consideration of this report. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. Mr Richard Petru reporting... [[I wanted to justify your objection.]] ...with a formal application. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u316	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Good evening. I would like to justify this objection. Namely, this request came to us at hours. 21. Question: "Have you had the opportunity to read the content of this proposal?" [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] And we don't. And that's what democracy is all about, that you have this proposal, and we don't have it. [[Voice from the room: On the tablets you have.]] That's why we're asking you to... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We're willing to talk to you about this, but we're asking you to... [[Voice from the room: You are modern, on tablets.]] ...so that we have time to look into the conclusions that are suddenly entering the Senior Convention. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to create legal bubbles... [[But you're modern!]] But, listen up. What, you want me to read and vote right away? [[Voice from the hall: But you are modern, modern.]] If we do not want to create legal bases in this parliament, we ask that it be possible to talk about it calmly tomorrow when Poles can see in full order what you are doing here. [[Voice from the room: Trust us, trust us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u317	In the interest of information and reminders, all Members of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Members received a report at the same time. [[That's right, on the tablets.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: Report of the Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, print No 47, will like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 317 Members voted. 273 Members voted against - 42, 2 abstentions. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure and of the Polish Affairs on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm (prints Nos 41 and 47). Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, rapporteur of the committee, has the floor. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Formal conclusion.]] [[Run with the motion.]] I will allow you to make a formal request, Madam President, once the honourable Member has made his statement. There you go. [[Voice from the room: He's gone pretty hard.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u318	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Members' Affairs, I present to the High House a report on the meeting of the Rules of Procedure Committee which has taken place today. It concerned the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1. After the discussion, a legislative amendment was introduced, which was taken over by the chairman of the committee, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki. As far as the original text is concerned, there has been a legislative change. Let me read it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In paragraph 30, paragraph 30 is replaced by the following: The first sentence of the first sentence of the application shall be submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm within the time limit: The following shall be replaced by the following: There was also a second amendment tabled by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, Member of the Civic Platform, in his article. 2 wanted to introduce a provision that the resolution entered into force on the date of the beginning of the next term of office of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. This amendment was rejected. In the shape of Seym printing No 47, I present this project to the High House. [[Very factual, really.]] The Commission requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft resolution from print No 47. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u319	Thank you, sir. The formal proposal was made by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to make a formal application on behalf of the Modern Club for a 10-minute break so that we can read the documents, prepare our position so that we can proceed. [[Voice from the room: There you go.]] [[And then don't complain.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u321	Thank you. Please, I'm declaring a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 min. 58 hours 0 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. I ask Members to take their seats. We continue to consider item 16. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has agreed - actually to remind you - that we will hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u322	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] It was my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament, draft resolution from print no. 47. The draft resolution concerns the amendment of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm by supplementing this article and paragraph. 3rd point for the creation function of the Sejm. So far, Art. 30 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm laid down the procedure for the selection and appointment of the authorities of the Sejm. However, this procedure had significant gaps, especially as regards the deadline for submitting applications with candidates. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Constitutional Tribunal Act shall set a time limit for the submission of an application only in certain circumstances. On the other hand, the legislator did not foresee a situation where the person proposed or chosen, who did not take the oath, resigns from further selection proceedings or dies. This lack of regulation is particularly severe with regard to the members of the Court of State and the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The proposed resolution removes the shortcomings of the Sejm's rules so far, and for this reason Parliamentary Club Law and Justice asks the High House to adopt a draft resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u323	Please. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u324	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! We are dealing with a rapid pace of Parliament's work. This pace shows that if there was a will to carry out electoral promises, there would be no problem with paying 500 PLN per child from 1 January, because Parliament is doing well. Today, after hours. 17 members of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Parliamentary Affairs found out at all that a project had come in. At a rapid pace, the first reading was carried out and the report was provided to the Members, and the Sejm Office is also able to deliver these documents. What's the project about? The draft removes the last minor legal obstacle, which will enable the parliamentary majority to re-establish the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, the five judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Sejm's waltz works fast. You have dealt with the annulment, for the first time in the history of free Poland, with the annulment of the resolution of the Sejm. You will, I understand, want to quickly appoint new judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. To date, the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have laid down precisely what time it is necessary for the Marshal of the Sejm to submit candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, said that this is done 30 days before the end of their term of office, 21 days after the cancellation or expiry of the mandate at the first meeting of the Sejm or, if the body is elected for the first time, at the first possible time. A seemingly procedated resolution corrects the legal gap. As they wrote, the Members of the applicant, Members of the Law and Justice, both the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Constitutional Court Act standard the time limit for submitting an application only under normal circumstances of a vacancy. I think that the word "normal" somehow remained in your justification, because so far we have dealt with a normal way of selecting people for important state positions by the Sejm. Today we are dealing with a situation that is not very normal. It is cynical, very cynical, to justify this proposal, this draft resolution, in which we can read that the legislator did not foresee and regulate in particular the situation when the person proposed or the person already chosen but who has not taken the oath, resigns from further selection proceedings or dies. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, one could say that such a situation could happen, that someone between choosing and vowing will die, and it is indeed unregulated, and perhaps it should be regulated, while, well, let's take it seriously. This bill is being proceded... this resolution is being proceded today at such a rapid pace not to correct this mistake regarding the situation, if someone died or resigned from the mandate between the election and the vows, just so you could, I don't know, appoint judges of the Constitutional Tribunal tomorrow, right? [[Voice from the room: Today.]] Perhaps the marshal will announce that the deadline for the candidacy is until tomorrow. 11, and we pick them at 4:00, right? Ladies and gentlemen! Some serious, well, you have a majority, you can introduce your electoral announcements, you can reform the country as you wish, but within the framework of the constitution and some non-consciousness of the authority of the High House. In view of the mode and the political need to adopt this resolution, although it is really trying to fix to some extent this small legal gap here, but that it is prepared for a specific purpose, it seems that voting for this resolution today would be a hand in the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal, an assassination of the Constitution, so it cannot be voted for and against the adoption of this amendment in the Rules of Procedure will be voted by the Civic Platform Club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u325	Thank you. Mr Richard Petru will speak at the moment. I would like to inform you that four of your fellow Members want to speak within 5 minutes. [[We can do this.]] [[Applause]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u326	High Izbo! This is a blitzkrieg. Blitzkrieg is a concept of instant war, which means it's a war prepared, unannounced... [[Voice from the room: That's already been done.]] ...realized by surprise. [[May bombing.]] It is a theoretical concept, sometimes used in practice. You didn't say you were going to do this, it wasn't in the exposé, it wasn't in the election campaign. I'll just say what's going on, because Poles should understand what this change is all about. Namely, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, so far the Marshal of the Sejm could submit applications for the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, 30 days before the end of his term of office. This new change makes it possible to do it at any time. Therefore, the point is to settle everything before 3 December, when the Constitutional Tribunal will consider whether or not the law is compatible with the Constitution. From this point of view, it would be good for Poles to understand what is happening here. Namely... [[Better late than never.]] ...it's about getting all this done quickly before the tribunal can... [[Voice from the room: End, end.]] ... assess whether this is consistent with the constitution. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u327	Thank you. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u328	I would like to paraphrase the words that came out of this speaker a few decades ago: Ladies and gentlemen, the change that you so desire is also our dream, to us, to the Modern. And this change is precious and desirable. But change, like almost all things in this world, has a high price, but measurable. We in Poland do not know the concept of change at all costs. There is only one thing in the lives of nations, people and countries that is priceless. And that thing is honor. You don't have that kind of honor. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Committee on Ethics!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u329	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I never thought that I would have the opportunity to participate in such a historical moment, at a black moment in the history of Poland. And I never thought I'd quote words... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]] ...a certain Pole, whom you, politicians of Law and Justice, in particular the President, admire. The words are this, he once said something like this: "One of the curses of our life, one of the curses of our state building is that we have divided into several types of Poles, that we speak one Polish language, or even Polish words understand that we have raised Poles among ourselves of different genres. Today, you are sharing Poles with us, but the Modern One is not possible. [[Applause]] [[Ha, ha!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u331	Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, the Modern Club, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Do you know?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u332	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's late night... [[Voice from the room: Ma'am, goodbye.]] ...I see you're all amused. I am not laughing - neither citizens nor citizens in Poland. [[Voice from the hall: This isn't a theater!]] This is theater, unfortunately. [[Voice from the hall: This isn't a theater!]] The State of Parliament of the Republic of Poland has made Theater's a weak, weak farce. [[Applause]] A weak farce. [[Voice from the Chamber: Member!]] [[Don't put your finger on us.]] You're weak actors, I wouldn't hire you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] You could at least be understudy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] May I have your attention, please? Just a moment. Everyone is given freedom... [[Voice from the room: You have two minutes.]] ...artistic art. This is the case with Art. 73 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland. [[What do you mean?]] We also read that everyone has the freedom to use cultural goods, and in accordance with Article. 6 of the Constitution it is the duty of Poland to create the right conditions for their dissemination and equal access to them. In turn, in the article. 54 The basic law protects every statement, also of an artistic nature, on the basis of preventive censorship, i.e. it prohibits its dependence on prior control, i.e. the consent of a state authority. The freedoms mentioned in the Constitution are not a generous gesture of the embodiment, but they have their power in human dignity. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Who's talking about human dignity? Come on, man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u333	Please. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u334	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! There was supposed to be a time when we would, the majority of government will primarily change the rules for Polish families, for those younger, older, for seniors, for better functioning and life in Poland. [[Voice from the room: Yes, it will.]] Today was your chance, and at first... [[Voice from the room: Not yet.]] ...it seemed that you would support the project of the Polish People's Party about early retirement, about the possibility of retirement after 40 years of work. Those were the declarations. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs Mazurek, this was the opinion from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy - that it is worth continuing to work on this project in committee. But you abstained in the vote. [[Voice from the room: Right.]] You rejected this project. [[Voice from the room: No.]] In fact, you've supported the motion to reject this project... [[Applause]] [[We've been holding off.]] ...in spite of the broad and very far-reaching promises of changes in retirement age. You had a chance to change Poland to a better one today. You didn't take advantage of it. You didn't even want to discuss this project and work on the committee. [[You guys didn't approve for eight years.]] [[Voice from the hall: You forgot!]] You did not want to work on a project about freedom of choice for Poles to retire after 40 years of work. [[You turned down a citizen.]] But you're not wasting your time. You don't waste your time, you have your time for changes that concern the Constitutional Court... [[Voice from the room: you were 8 years old.]] ...in the first place, now the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The question is: When will the new appointments be submitted for the judges of the tribunal? Will it be today, tomorrow... [[Wait a minute.]] Or the day after tomorrow? [[Voice from the room: Today!]] [[Voice from the room: In a moment.]] We thought that if we weren't at the Sejm Bureau, we would be losing it because we wouldn't have access to the information. But I guess those Vice-Marshals from the opposition who are at the Sejm Bureau today don't have that knowledge either, because we're constantly surprised by the new projects being thrown in from hour to hour. [[Voice from the room: No.]] We are not able, especially those Members who are the first term of office, to familiarise themselves with these projects. Resolution on the annulment of the term of office of the Judge of the Tribunal, resolution on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. And so all the time, without moving things that are important to people who are waiting for, people who are working, people who are active, pensioners, Polish families. Program 500 PLN. We're hearing more announcements, too. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are you dealing with the wrong projects you promised in the election campaign... [[He said it clearly.]] ...only the ones you always bring in at night? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u335	There you go. I would like to inform you that the Modern Club is still a minute away from the performance. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will fill it out. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u336	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! [[Turn on your watch.]] This is my next speech and kind of an appeal to you for some sort of recollection. We seem to be actually crossing the next line. The question is: Why do you question the authority of the Constitutional Court? [[You heard me.]] Don't forget, in this term of office, you will list the next six judges of the tribunal. These will be the judges who will be chosen by you. If we are giving such a message to the public right now that all the judges we choose, really with a great deal of work, are in the service of politicians, that is a very bad message. The same will apply to those judges you will present for your opinion. I don't doubt their qualifications. I think they're gonna be the best they're gonna have, but let's not question trust in these people because it's just gonna be the candidates you're gonna report. It's happening all over again. I hope we don't have to talk about these candidates either, saying that they're in the service of the PiS and they're political. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the last question to you is: Will we have a Tellerank on Sunday? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u337	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the Civic Platform remains a minute of club time. Mr Jarosław Urbaniak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Members of the applicant in the justification of the project wrote that the Sejm's previous rules did not provide for such a situation that the person chosen by the Sejm of the Republic for some function would die. Somehow, strangely enough, none of the five judges of the Constitutional Tribunal died, no one killed them, but you today are killing a democratic legal state. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u339	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution immediately. We'll proceed to the... [[With a formal application.]] Formal conclusion, here you go. Mr Brejza with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u340	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, I have a formal request for the time of sitting. It is not our fault that Mr. Marshal was rescheduleing, stalling today's debate. We'd like to ask questions... [[The request for a recess will be filed.]] ...that's why I have a formal motion for a break and a convocation of the Senior Convention. Despite the time you've led to this important draft procedure under the cover of the night, I have a request to allow questions to be asked. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u341	High Seym! In the case of a second reading of the law, draft law or draft resolution, it is the authority of the marshal, whether he permits questions or not. Because of, among other things, for this night and for the late hour, and also... [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] [[We've got time.]] ...because in many cases your speeches have deviated from the point of view, I will not announce a break and I do not allow questions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Speak?]] We proceed to the third reading. [[But I have a very important...]] Please take your seats. We proceed to the third reading. [[But on a formal matter, with a formal request.]] The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 47. [[But I have to...]] Mr President, please do not interfere with my deliberations. [[Voice from the Chamber: You are reviewing the Member.]] We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 47, will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] [[Movement in the courtroom, some Members hit the desktops]] [[Voice from the room: Rules!]] [[Voice from the room: Voting!]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 396 Members voted. 274 Members voted against - 121, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. What is it about, my fellow Member? [[With a formal application.]] Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, formal proposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u342	24.30 p.m. . [[Voice from the room: 0.30]] Or 0.30. I would like to remind Members of Law and Justice, Madam Prime Minister in particular, of the speech in this Seym... [[Conclusion.]] ...Mr Ujazdowski. The case concerned a democratic package. [[There'll be a package.]] I'd like you to take a look at this package. So you guys can... [[You turned it down.]] ...remembered because we will remind you every morning and night. [[We remember.]] [[You rejected it.]] You don't remember, you weren't here. [[But I was in the Senate and we sat till morning.]] Sir, don't interrupt me. Marshal, please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u343	But, Madam, please, a formal proposal, or I will have to take your vote. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u344	It's not weird in this room. [[Bravo!]] It's not weird in this courtroom that the marshal doesn't speak... [[Voice from the Chamber: Democratic package.]] ...that the marshal doesn't respect the rights of the opposition... [[Voice from the room: Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u345	Madame, please make a formal request. [[Truth in the eyes of the circle.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u346	But let me explain, I have 56 seconds left. I would very much ask your marshal to take a look at this, too, because it was your motto... [[40.]] ...and during the exposé, Prime Minister Szydło said that you would respect the rights of the opposition. For today you should be ashamed... [[I think it's yours.]] [[30.]] ...because whoever reads the democratic package will see that you have failed to keep your word in this House. You don't keep your word to the Poles. [[22.]] We ask you to come to your senses.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u347	Madam, I ask for a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u348	I've got 19 seconds. [[17.]] Mr. Marshal, a formal request has been made for a recess to continue tomorrow, not under cover of the night. It's an hour. 0.32. [[Room votes: 9, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'd ask your marshal to behave like the party vice president said, because today you're in the middle of a party...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u349	Member, I will be forced to take your vote immediately.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u350	...and we wouldn't want that. I'm sure you're ashamed of it, although today, in front of the president, you don't have the guts to admit it. [[Applause]] [[You've been stressing us out for eight years.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u351	It wasn't a formal conclusion. Unfortunately, I'm very sorry, ma'am, I have to remind you here. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 25 November. I would like to inform you that you and your fellow Members have come forward to make their statements. [[Voice from the room: Ladies and gentlemen.]] Excuse me, of course, ladies and gentlemen. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to appeal for the situation at the Polish Theatre in Wrocław... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...the use of comparisons with the period of the Polish People's Republic has stopped... [[Voice from the room: Censor!]] ...and with a photograph of the grandfathers directed by Kazimierz Dejmek. At that time I participated in social protests, among others. At the Faculty of Physics at the University of Warsaw, I collected signatures under resolution against blocking the possibility of presenting this art. Many others have also taken similar actions, perhaps there is evidence of this at the Institute of National Remembrance. I do not wish that those conditions of protest and, in particular, the art of Adam Mickiewicz compare with the current events and performance in Wrocław. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u353	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Simon Giżyński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u354	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This year the dawn of real and full independence shined on Poles: first on May 24th, on the day of Pentecost of the Holy Spirit, and for the second time on October 25th. But what happened - so great - was with the general participation of the nation, it was a work barely started, only giving Poland and Poles a chance to complete and complete practice independence, to refer to the words and to the warning of the outstanding leader of the contemporary Anglo-Saxon political world - accepted, which is significant, as the first foreign guest by Andrzej Duda, then the President-elect - former Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper: A nation that does not practice its independence, loses it. How wise. The words correspond closely with the work of life of the most important patron celebrated several days ago, November 11th, Independence Day - Marshal Józef Piłsudski, who managed, in his own words, to persuade the nation to pursue independence. Known and inspired by this example, the Polish nation on 24 May and 25 October 2015 of his own free will and own choice took himself to the path of independence. The size and significance of this act symbolizes a certain event from this year's festival of All Saints, on 1 November, when in Cracow, on Wawel, in the crypt of silver bells, in the coffin of Marshal Józef Piłsudski and sarcophagus of President Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda, together with a group of Krakow's academic civic club, sang an anthem of God, something in Poland, joyfully intonating: the Homeland of Free Blessings, Lord. But not all that has been lost is recovered. In 1998, the Council Poland lost its voivodship in Częstochowa. Our homeland was taken from Częstochowa Voivodeship, so that its spiritual capital Częstochowa was deprived of the shelter so necessary and necessary to perform the national administrative and civilization service. This was done intentionally and with all the ruthlessness and thoughtfulness of the then cosmopolitan and liberal elites of power. Since the Częstochowa voivodeship was liquidated in 1998 for purely and exclusively ideological reasons, it is high time that Częstochowa restored the status of the voivodship for reasons as closely as possible, in the name of the Polish state and Polish national interest. This is how the biggest Polish politician of contemporary days - the husband of state, President Jarosław Kaczyński, this is what the inhabitants of Częstochowa, Częstochowa and Polish patriots want. The building of the restored and future Częstochowa voivodship will be the area between the Upper Silesian-Zęgęgian metropolis and the Łódź metropolis: the sacred Polish land, as if remaining in the control of national heroes, so abundantly distributed with the blood of the insurgents of January, soldiers of the National Army, National Armed Forces and the Conspiracy of the Polish Army, the land wrapped in the legend of the armed act of the enchanted soldiers, radiant with the work and victim of the life of General Stanisław Sojczyński. The common fate and ethos of the inhabitants of the lands between the Łódź and Upper Silesia metropolis further strengthens the fact of belonging to, mostly, one administrative unit of the Catholic Church - Archdiocese of Czestochowa. The restoration of Częstochowa voivodship confirmed by the political will of Law and Justice is an urgent and important task for Polish patriots at the beginning of the new term of office of the Sejm. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Gromce Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u355	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Maciejewski, Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, when my party, of course, decided by the voters on 25 October this year. - she has been given the opportunity to decide for herself the fate of our homeland, cordially and warmly thank all those who voted for me. I would also like to thank those who voted for the other candidates on the Law and Justice list. Today's success through the Law and Justice owes only to you, dear voters, and that is why I will do my utmost not to disappoint the trust that you have given me. Thanks to your voices together we will be able to make a profound moral renewal of our country and build a Republic of fulfilled dreams. A republic where evil is called evil and good is called good. We all look forward to a country where law will be effectively enforced and will cease to protect criminals, especially those in high state positions. I believe that this sense of impunity will soon be eliminated, although there are cases where some judges distort the concept of judicial independence and are not independent in their judgments. In this situation, it must be said: it is quite enough, although we are aware that the various socio-political groups that are preying on a weak, corrupt country whose interests are at risk will be campaigning to compromise our reforms. The exposé of the Prime Minister and the debate in which a lot of things have been clarified are very optimistic. I believe that soon we will live in a country based on social solidarity, the rule of law, order, peace and concern for every citizen. The great desire to improve life will be our strength to bravely oppose liberal politics, which led to a sale for the priceless national wealth, unemployment and poverty of the Polish society. Today we are facing a unique opportunity to introduce Poland to the way of efficient governance in the interests of all Poles, especially those expelled, often without their fault, to the margin of social life. The government prime minister Beata Szydło is determined to defend Polish land, Polish industry and Polish national heritage. As a Member of the Republic of Poland, I will strongly support the government to stop the humiliating economic emigration of Poles. For all Poles should have the opportunity to work and develop in their homeland. Dear Elections! Thanks to your support, I received a parliamentary mandate authorising me to make important decisions for all Poles. I am very proud of this fact, and I believe I will not fail your trust. Today Poland needs a stable and predictable administrative and legal system. That is why I am glad that you have enabled me to participate in the process of rebuilding our homeland. I believe that we can do this, and that is why I thank you once again for the support received in the past parliamentary elections. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u357	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u358	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to bring the High Sejm closer to the issue that is important for the local population of railway line No 97 Żywiec - Sucha Beskidzka and the issue of non-cooperation between the local authorities of Małopolska and Śląskie voivodship. The railway line Żywiec - Sucha Beskidzka is located in two voivodships. In order to activate the fixed, very necessary passenger connections, it is necessary to thoroughly revitalize. The urgent need to take these measures with EU funds in the new financial perspective has been raised several times since the start of the programming of the new perspective. In the context of the public consultation, numerous requests were made for this project, which was included in the National Railway Programme. In mid-2014 it was included in the negotiating mandate of the territorial contract of the Silesian Voivodeship with the source of funding from the Operational Programme of the Infrastructure and Environment. However, this source was not accepted by the government. The Management Board of the Silesian Voivodship, instead of changing the source of funding into a regional operational programme, completely removed the investment from its contract. There has been a situation in which the investment was included in the Regional Operational Programme of the Małopolska Voivodship, but there is no continuation on the side of the Silesian Voivodeship. What is more - of which, of course, should be enjoyed - the Silesian party wants to extend the substantive scope of the revitalisation of railway line 190 on section Cieszyn - Goleszow by 11 km, increasing funding by PLN 60 million from the regional operational programme, and yet this section is not included in the National Railway Programme, nor is there a reference in the In response to one of my interpellations, the position of Minister of Development was presented. He confirmed that the regeneration of line 97 requires a decision by the Marshal's Office of the Silesian Voivodeship. First, it made this decision conditional on the inclusion of investments on the Małopolska side in the regional programme. I think I've read it, haven't I? [[Yes.]] Second time, so I got the wrong page. So this was the case and, of course, I would like to appeal from this point to take the procedure for changing the territorial contract for the Śląskie voivodship regarding the extension of the ranking list for the revitalization of line 97 and to cooperate between the Silesian and Małopolska local authorities in this respect. This is extremely important. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Wójcik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u360	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you at first, Marshal, for allowing me to make a statement. This statement concerns the Song and Tańska Silesia Team. Stanisława Hadyna, specifically, is about giving Silesia the status of a state cultural institution. I ask the Minister of Culture to consider granting the status of cultural institutions to the Silesian Song and Dance Team. Stanisław Hadyna. The Silesia team is one of the most recognizable brands in the world. It is not only the care of our centuries-old traditions by a group of enthusiasts, but it is also a symbol of the region from which I arrived, the symbol of Silesia. Currently the team functions as a local government institution of culture and is financed by the funds of the local government of the Śląskie voivodship. Due to the not very good situation of the Śląskie voivodship's budget, operating resources are reduced from year to year, although the team is carrying out its mission practically on the basis of the same human team. For years, efforts have been made to give the Silesian team the status of a state cultural institution. In this respect, proposals have already been submitted twice, which have been supported by the Councillors of the Silesian Sejm. There should be no doubt that the Silesian team promotes culture not only in the region, but also in the whole country and is seen in the world as a card of Poland. Giving the status of a state-owned cultural institution would be an excellent opportunity to promote our identity in these difficult, dynamic times of Polish culture and traditions. This is particularly important for our fellow countrymen living outside the country, especially in the East. Since 1953, the team has seen over 3 million people. Silesia gives 120 concerts a year. An important element of the activity is the educational activity for children and young people from all over the region. The artists of the Silesian band teach our culture, singing and dancing. Recently, the palace in Koscin, where the seat of the team is located, has been beautifully modernised. In any case, I invite all Members to Koszecin. To this end, funds have been obtained from the European Union. This is also a great card the size of this team. It is amazing in all of this that politicians, local government officials like to warm themselves in the warm size of the team, but so far it has not been possible to give the team the status of a state cultural institution, which would be tantamount to the possibility to finance its activities, to increase the real impact and promotion of our best traditions in Poland and abroad. I ask the Minister of Culture to consider giving this status to the team. Not only the band's artists are waiting for this, but also the entire community of my region. Looking at the list of current institutions of culture, state of course, it is impossible to resist the great surprise that there is no Silesian Song and Dance Team on this list. In this case, I will soon submit an interpellation, and at the same time I will present a proposal supported by outstanding representatives of various Śląskie voivodship environments. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u361	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no denying that the eight-year rule of the PO-PSL dinner has brought enormous losses to our country, both economic, social and image. Constant corruption, nepotism and co-moterism have distorted Poland's vision on the international stage, but most of all they have damaged Poles' trust in those who exercise power in our country. Finally, the level of discouragement and tiredness of constantly watching the media manifest political prowess and presenting the interests of the team ruling over the common good reached the zenith. The elections came, and the Polish society said that it was enough and was clearly in favour of the new system solutions proposed by the Law and Justice, giving a real chance for a better tomorrow. The election of the new President of the Republic of Poland in May 2015 was the first signal that a new order was born in our country. Poles of government in their homeland gave Andrzej Duda - a man who perfectly understands the needs of citizens, is competent, courageous and knows what respect for another person is. The voters bet on the President energetic, with a lot of experience, and able to compromise. Both election rounds proved that a representative with stable views was needed, which serves the nation and at the same time is the opposite of Bronisław Komorowski, whose visions of the necessary reforms changed according to image needs, and whose chandelier, phlegmatic and closed presidency left much to be desired. The next October parliamentary elections turned out to be a proverbial dot over The society has already estimated that the election of Andrzej Duda on the head of the state was the right one, and therefore once again at the polls Poles put on representatives of the united right hand. This has led to an independent majority in the Seym and Senate, which in turn gives a real chance to implement good reforms in a smooth manner, in line with the President's programme of changes. Of course, I am aware that this will not be easy to manage, because many of the problems that need to be solved have been swept under the carpet by the outgoing ruling team. Although the media, as you can imagine, will be an unfavorable team of Law and Justice, it is necessary to clean up this mess with determination first, so that we can then get started on changing Poland. However, I am convinced that any reforms planned by the Law and Justice will come into force. Poles deserve to listen to their problems and look for ways to solve them, not to deal with themselves and to reduce the negative effects of the new scandals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-25-sejm-02-1.u363	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9. Have a good night. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 49]]
