ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Mr. Senators, please take your seats at the president's table. High Senate, I propose to supplement the agenda with items: the Act amending the Civil Service Act and the Law on Government Departments and consider it as a third point; the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and consider it as point four. The texts of these laws and the reports of the competent committees have been provided to the senators, as appropriate, in prints Nos 65 and 65 A and 66 and 66 A. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is not only the voice of opposition, but also the voice of concern, deep concern that the Marshal did not wish to consult the Senior Convention on the matter at hand. During our meeting yesterday at the Seniors Convention meeting, the fate of the Sejm's laws, which you are proposing to the Marshal at today's Senate meeting, were unknown. We talked about this. The Senior Convention has not been held. There was no senior convention meeting. Therefore, we had no opportunity, along with Marshal Borusewicz, to express ours, as I say, deep concern about the situation and opposition to this proposal. Moreover, in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, Mr Marshal, it is clear that only in exceptional cases can such projects be placed on the agenda on the basis of the decision of the Senate as a whole. These exceptional cases are obviously not specific, but... recently, our actions are based solely on exceptional cases. It is not an exceptional case, in my opinion, as the head of the club, and the entire club, the introduction of a law which was adopted only yesterday and which actually means the elimination of systemic safeguards regarding pluralism in the media, as is written by numerous European federations of journalists and... With questions about this, the Polish authorities both of whom we are a member and of the European Union are asking the Polish authorities. We find this situation unacceptable. And at the same time, we consider her, Mr. Marshal, to be a violation of our rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u3	Thank you very much. The senior convention was held, I mentioned... and I warned the senior convention members of this possibility... [[Mr. Marshal...]] But there was already a voice of opposition. Because that, I understand, is the voice of opposition, right? No, there can't be a second vote of objection. What do you mean? Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, but in what mode would you like to speak? You're welcome. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome. [[May I?]] I mean, in what mode? [[In the formal application procedure.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u4	I, too, object to the introduction... [[The objection has already been made, thank you very much.]] No, Mr. Marshal. I would also like to say and confirm that the Convention can consider additions when there is a committee report. There were no reports from the committee. Your information was just information. Any supplement...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u5	I'm gonna ask for the rules... Rules of procedure, please. Would any of your senators like to speak? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I was also at this Senior Convention meeting. I believe that these two points that you are currently reporting were discussed at the Senior Convention. I don't know why, gentlemen, maybe you didn't listen very carefully... I'm surprised you're making that conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u7	Then we'll proceed... [[In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u8	I want to correct that information that isn't true. Only proposals which had their legal force were considered at the Senior Convention meeting concerning items which could be put on the agenda in accordance with the rules. Mr. Marshal completed the lege artis yesterday. Lege artis has entered two items on our agenda. That's what happened. We've been sitting in order. Mr. Marshal signalled the possibility, but at the same time he knew exactly that he could not bring into order something that had not yet come out of the Sejm. This is what we have fully respected and therefore the agenda has not been completed. Therefore, according to our interpretation, And I think that this interpretation is in line with both the reality and the laws in force, the Rules of Procedure of this Senate meeting have been exhausted. And that's the only reason why we're asking you to postpone the examination of those points that you mentioned at the moment, i.e. media law and civil service liquidation law for the next Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u9	Mr. Senator, good, but the lege artis I would like to inform the High House, as well as your senator, and your marshal present at the Senior Convention... I'm sure you've heard that I've warned you of this possibility, and according to the rules, it's possible to introduce further points. Mr. Senator himself briefly quoted the relevant paragraph of the Rules of Procedure. And that's what I'm doing right now. Prints have been delivered, all Senators have prints. Because there was a voice of opposition... Do you object, Mr. Senator? Please further interpret your statement and clarify it Is it about one point and the other, or is it about one of those points?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u10	Yes, Mr. Marshal, of course it concerns... [[Both of them?]] ...two of these points. [[Good. Well, then...]] This is a request to move these points to the next Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u11	Then we vote, Mr. Senator. We proceed with the vote on the proposal I have put forward, namely the proposal to include these two items on the agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: But we vote over...]] We are voting on my motion because there was a vote of objection. Please report the results. [[Voice from the room: No quorum.]] [[There's no quorum.]] 49 senators voted, 42 for, 7 against... [[Voting No 7]] [[Voice from the room: No quorum.]] I'm declaring a ten-minute break. [[But the quorum is.]] [[Adjournment from 8 minutes 08 to 8 minutes 18]] I'm reopening the session. Senator Martynowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u12	Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the club, I'm asking you to take a ten-minute break. [[How much?]] Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u13	By 8:30. Dismissed until 8:30. [[Adjournment from 8 minutes 18 to 8 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed to the vote again on the proposal I had made earlier. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of my offer? Let me remind you that my proposal concerns the completion of the agenda by two points: the law on amending the Civil Service Act and certain other laws and considering it as a third point and the law on amending the Radio and Television Act and considering it as a fourth point. Who's in favor of this proposal? Press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 52 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 2 were against it. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has accepted a proposal to supplement the agenda with points: on the law amending the Civil Service Act and certain other laws. and consider it as a third point; and the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television and consider it as point four. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Civil Service Act and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 65 and the committee's report in print No 65 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Flork, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Dear guests! I have the honour to be the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the matter adopted by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland at its seventh meeting on 30 December 2015. The committee meeting started at 1.45 p.m. and ended at 4.15 p.m. today, i.e. 31 December 2015. At the committee meeting there was no representative of the applicants, Mrs Małgorzata Wassermann. The government represented Mrs Beata Kempa, Minister of the Council of Ministers, Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. The participants of the meeting received a letter from the Marshal of the Sejm addressed to the Senate for consideration by the Senate of the Act of 30 December 2015 together with the printing of the Act amending the Civil Service Act and certain other laws. We got these prints without any other additional documents to read the bill. The Commission was chaired by its chairman, Senator Piotr Zientarski. At the beginning, the president referred to Professor Hubert Izdebski's opinion that the law was contrary to Article. 153 constitutions. He then asked a representative of the Legislative Bureau, Mr Michael Gil, for an opinion. The legislator did not prepare an opinion in writing because, as he said, he did not have time for it, he merely presented his comments orally. The committee president said that a written opinion had always been the standard. Unfortunately, this time there was no such opinion. The legislator has only shared a few observations that he has managed to make. He stated that a provision was introduced during the second reading at the stage of Parliament's work, which sets out how to establish an employment relationship with the President of the Social Insurance Institution. This matter was not the subject of the project, therefore there is a high risk of a constitutional violation, a provision that speaks of the bodies empowered to introduce a legislative initiative. He therefore proposed to delete the article. 3 concerning the implementation of these amendments. Then he quoted the article. 153 of the Constitution, which states that the civil service corps operates in order to carry out the tasks of the state in order to be reliable, impartial and politically neutral. I quote art. 153 constitutions. He stated that the Act contained a number of provisions which infringe the provision cited. These are provisions which exclude higher positions in the civil service from competitive recruitment, provisions on the establishment of an employment relationship on the basis of appointment and dismissal, the abolition of the requirement to have adequate experience with the head of civil service, the abolition of the obligation not to be a member of a political party within a period of 5 years, the abolition of the requirement to work in a higher position in the civil service, i.e. the requirements of professional experience, the exclusion of higher posts from periodic evaluations, the provision which requires that, within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law, employment relations with persons who occupy higher positions in the civil service be extinguished. He then submitted some comments, as he called them, of a technical nature. The Act introduced a division into the categories of persons forming a civil service corps. These are civil servants employed under a contract of employment, civil servants employed on the basis of appointment and persons in higher positions in the civil service employed on the basis of appointment. And there was a problem here, and there was a discussion about it... Because it is known that there are civil servants, civil servants, these are those who are employed on the basis of a appointment... As far as civil servants are concerned, I don't know, but they're probably about 8%. the civil service corps. And there are still those in higher positions in the civil service. In this connection, the question arose as to whether civil servants who are going to higher positions in the civil service are losing, so to speak, because they are appointed there, and here they are appointed... There was a discussion about whether this was correct or whether any other solution should be adopted here. In that case, officials would have to decide, knowing that they risk not being appointed for appointment, would not be able to return to appointment. The next issue that the legislator raised was the Civil Service Council. The Civil Service Council was introduced in the act instead of the Civil Service Council. The legislator said that in the article. 10 It should be added that the Civil Service Council is being set up because, as he said, there is no such provision, and this provision should be added. There was one other thing, it is that the amendment concerning the article. 23 is identical to the article that has been in force so far, so it is not known why this entry is included in the Act. He is expendable because he repeats what is now written in the bill. I'm just gonna characterize... There wasn't much at the time, and I'd like you to meet... Ms Beata Kemp then commented on the legislator's comments. She informed that the government had issued its position on the bill and that it was a positive position. The Minister also expressed her position on the competitions: she stated that these competitions were fictional. Next, almost all members of the committee and Senator Rulewski, who is not a member of the committee, spoke in the discussion. Since we had as much time as we had to get acquainted with the bill... The committee meeting started at 01.45, and it ended after 4:00 p.m., which means when we started the meeting at 8:00 a.m., we were already after 20 hours of work. Senator Rulewski has proposed that the committee's meeting be divided into two parts: the first one, the one that took place; and the second one, so that we may have time to read other documents if they were received. He also proposed that the latter part be postponed to a later date. Unfortunately, the proposal was not accepted and there was a further... There's been a vote... Another motion on which there was a vote was a motion to reject the bill in its entirety, and here 6 senators were in favour and 6 senators against. We then voted on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and the situation repeated here. 6 senators were against, 6 senators were against. Therefore, the committee did not take a position on the bill. So much for the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. Now the senators... wait a minute, Mr. Senator, because there may be questions. I don't know if they will, but they can be. At present, senators may place up to a minute of questioning to the Senator of the rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Dobrzyński, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you used that statement to say that we got these documents. I'd like to know what documents. According to your statement, you have a grudge against the Legal Office in the absence of a written opinion. On what grounds do you demand the written opinion of the legislators when the legislator was at the committee meeting? You've also used them twice, I don't know what to call it, well, statements, that's the kind of information you've given about the duration of the committee. What's the point of finding out if it was this morning, or was it at noon, or was it at night? What are you trying to say? And did the committee sit on this subject and want to include in the minutes the duration of the committee? Thank you. [[I put...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u17	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u18	Mr. Senator, you spoke about the opinion and the position of a legislator in agreement with the fact that the bill has constitutional shortcomings. What was the position of a government representative on this matter? Because the senator generally said it was positive, but did you refer to these very serious and numerous charges, the entire list of allegations regarding the constitutionality of the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u20	Senator rapporteur, has the aspect of our commitments in the Treaty on Accession to the European Union been raised as to the creation of an apolitical civil service based on the service that exists in European countries, in the countries of the European Union? Have you considered this subject? And have you considered this attempt to liquidate a civil service based on European standards as a result of undermining the principles that we have adopted with the entry into the structures of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u21	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There you go, does anyone want to... [[Maybe I'll answer you one at a time because I don't have...]] And this, please... [[I'm not taking notes.]] Here's a pen and write it down. Is there any other senators who would like to ask the Senator rapporteur a question? No further questions. These are the three questions, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u22	So I answer. . Yesterday's Senate meeting, as you know, lasted a long time. During this time the Sejm's deliberations were held and the Civil Service Act was adopted, I do not know, probably in the evenings, when there was a vote. She reached the Senate and thanks to the fact that we had been sitting so long at night, we were able to march so to speak, to proceed at night to committee meetings, otherwise we would probably have to meet this morning, because it would be difficult to wake us up if we had finished the plenary session earlier, and not until the morning to proceed on this bill in committee. The legislator, of course, had as much time as he had, and therefore did not have the opportunity to draw up an opinion in writing. He just expressed... [[But there is no such requirement, Senator.]] [[Mr. Senator, don't bother the senator.]] [[But the committee follows the rules, not the will.]] [[But please don't...]] She was so... [[But don't disturb me.]] I'm not a senator... I am a senator of the first term of office, so I do not know how it usually was, but the information the committee chairman was giving indicated that the principle was that it was an opinion in writing. So... [[There's no such requirement.]] [[He wasn't telling the truth.]] I'm just saying what... [[He wasn't telling the truth.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, well, I stressed that the opinion was not in writing, but there was an oral opinion. As for what committee meeting began and which ended, since I am the Senator rapporteur, I have noted the facts, because in my opinion such information is always in the minutes: on this and this day, about this and at this hour something has begun and ended. You may have had other practices so far, but that's how I feel about it. As far as Senator Augustine is concerned, the senator was asking about... Maybe one more time... [[Please, Senator, repeat.]] [[I asked you to refer the Minister to the allegations of unconstitutionality...]] Okay, I remember now. Okay. The Minister referred to the comments which were addressed in the discussion. The Minister said, as I said at the beginning, that the government's position was positive, and the Minister said that all the provisions were in line with the Constitution. That's what the minister said, and that's all I can say to the senator. As far as the third question is concerned, the issues that the senator was talking about were not the subject of discussions at the committee meeting, and we did not discuss them. I'm just presenting what happened at the committee meeting. There were no such conversations.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u23	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Rocki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u24	I would like to ask a question relating to my view the existing discrepancy between the justification of the law and its content. Namely, in the explanatory memorandum it is said that these rules are being created to enable the implementation of tasks related to government policy. On the other hand, the text of the Act refers to a whole corps of civil servants, which also includes the Forest Seed Office or district veterinarians. Has it been explained why, according to the authors of this law, the district veterinarian performs the tasks of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Napieralski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator about the committee's position on this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u27	Good. Are there any more questions for the senator? Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u28	I'm going back to that reporting idea where... As it were, there was no fundamental decision as to whether we were able to proceed. At a committee meeting, and especially now on such resolutions. Will these decisions bear the responsibilities of every senator or senate in company? [[What does that have to do with the report?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u29	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to ask the senator a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u30	About Mr. Rulewski's question Of course, each of us, each of the senators should answer the question of whether these documents we have obtained and whether the time we had to prepare for the discussion about such an important bill... I believe that this is the second, after the Constitutional Court Act, of the most important laws on which we are voting. So, considering that... well, we had hours of the night, but you still have to get home and change; I can only say that I slept about one hour tonight, because that was the time. [[It's too much anyway.]] What did you say? Too much? Thank you. Well, in that case, ladies and gentlemen, that already shows how fast it is. We work and how much time we have. So the answer is clear. We shouldn't... My opinion as a senator is right now that we should have time, a break to get to know it thoroughly, analyze it, gather opinions, get a detailed opinion of the Senate legislators. And in this opinion, the legislator said, And I quote it here. He has only shared with us a few of the observations he has made, and this is therefore not a complete opinion. Because if he had... I don't know how much time he had to draw up that opinion. Two hours, three? Well, he couldn't draw up a full opinion. So I think the answer is clear. And as for the other question, The subject was not discussed.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u32	Mr Senator, did the committee's meeting also mention other opinions other than those mentioned by you in the opinion of the Batory Foundation, prepared by you by Professor Izdebski, or did it mention opinions of other bodies, possibly professional legal authorities, about the constitutionality of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u33	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u34	Yes, indeed, the President also quoted other opinions, perhaps three or four, if I recall, which were in his possession. All the opinions here, of course... After all, it turned out in the vote that the division between the people who voted in favour of the fact that it was a valid law and those who, according to this law, should not be procedated. All the opinions that Senator Zientarski quoted were negative. I didn't really keep up with it because it was night and I had half an hour to write a report and to prepare myself. Therefore, my report is not very precise, but I did not have time for it either. In any event, in fact, Senator Piotr Zientarski also presented other opinions and all were negative, which is why in every opinion was mentioned that the law was violating the constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u35	Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u36	In the statements of government representatives and the ruling coalition, we very often hear that the current civil service regulations have not been effective enough to prevent the politicisation of executive positions in this service. Did the government and drafters of the law show that the new solutions would be better protected against possible politicisation? And what were the arguments?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u37	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u38	Mr. Senator, was there a discussion at the committee's meeting about the positive effects on the functioning of the existing law... [[It's a drag... but he's the chairman of the committee.]] ...in the last 8 years at different levels, in particular. At voivodship level? [[Mr. Chairman, wasn't that at the committee meeting?]] Please? [[Wasn't it at the committee meeting?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: At the committee meeting, I'm all...]] [[But they're delaying.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u39	Please don't disturb me. [[But I have the right to ask a question about that...]] Senator Zientarski asks a question, we don't comment. [[...for information...]] Quiet, please. [[That's why it's taking so long, because you're putting the obstructions in!]] [[...from the committee meeting reached everyone. That's what this is all about.]] Now, Mr. Senator, you asked a question. Please don't disturb me. [[That's why it's taking so long!]] Mr. Senator, peace and quiet, please. [[That's why it takes so long.]] Mr. Senator, please calm down. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask the senator of the rapporteur another question? I don't know if you're Senator Augustine or... Senator Zdrojewska, please. [[You have to put your card in.]] You didn't take the cards. You forgot.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u40	I wasn't at the committee meeting, so I hope you'll let me ask you a question. Dear Senator, I would like to ask whether the questions were asked during the committee meeting or whether there was information from the government or from the person who was the rapporteur concerning the verification in government institutions I don't know, maybe also in voivodship offices and various kinds of state institutions. What the average internship looks like at senior officials. Is it really possible to confirm that all people, as would have been explained by different reasons, had to work very briefly, only one or two last political terms? Or, in many institutions, are we dealing with employees with a great deal of experience, with years of internship in positions, with people who have had hard exams? Could you tell me if you discussed this at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u42	Senator, by informing you of the position of the government represented by the Minister, you said that, in the opinion of the government, these competitions for higher positions in civil service were fictional. Is the Minister... Of course, organizing fictional competitions is a violation of the law, it's a crime. [[And who is Ryszard Kwiatkowski and Jan Bury?]] Did the Minister give any data from the prosecutor's office or from other institutions of the state to which they were reported, I understand, numerous examples of the organisation of fictional competitions? Or maybe she told us how much she or her officials had found out and referred her to the appropriate authorities?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. Does anyone else want to ask a question? No. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, the planned new solutions for higher civil service positions, the third additional group we are talking about... There is to be recruitment on the basis of appointment without competitions, which is a new solution. There's a matter of writing in the Constitution, I think it's, as I recall, an article. 153, who talks about civil service, about apoliticality, and here we have this new solution when you can become an official without a competition. Of course, there is also the issue of apoliticity, and it has also been abolished. When it comes to positive opinions, you asked me that, maybe I'll put you through in a minute. I'd like to say more about this average internship that was asked about... Of course, when it comes to higher office positions... I can tell you on the example of the voivodship office: in higher positions, i.e. directors or deputies, there are either officials or employees. Depending on whether it's an official or a corps worker, it's a matter of the head of the unit when he makes these changes. I can say, based on my experience, because I organized many competitions myself in the provincial office... [[Who was winning?]] ...that the contest... [[But who won?]] And here's where I'm gonna surprise you because... [[The best.]] ...the competitions are free, everyone can come to these competitions. A competition committee, a head of civil service or a delegation of representatives shall be appointed I'm talking about the head of civil service, in my case it was in Warsaw. Or, if that's the case with the directors, he's holding a competition at his place too, so if you think the organizer has any influence on this... Maybe there are cases like this, maybe you know them, and you're based on your observations... [[I know life.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]] [[Quiet, please.]] I say to you that competitions have been a very good solution so far. These cases, some of you mentioned two names here, I'm not gonna repeat them... But this isn't about the civil service. [[But say it again.]] Please? [[But say it again.]] Well, Minister... It wasn't the minister, it was Mr. Kwiatkowski. [[Your member, your nominate.]] [[Voices from the hall: Your member!]] ...but they didn't talk, ladies and gentlemen... It's a whole other thing. We're discussing civil service here. If you want to mix up other vocations, okay... [[And the U.S.S.S.?]] ...but I'm clearly talking about the civil service. [[The voice from the hall: Mr. Senator, even the cleaning women in your reign must have been under the influence of PSL...]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you have experience... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Order, please! Order in the courtroom, please!]] If you have such knowledge that there were competitions somewhere... [[All of Poland knows.]] ...so please inform the appropriate service, because this is a criminal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Please, Mr. Senator, please calm down.]] ...and chased. If you have that knowledge, then go ahead... I can only say for myself, for eight years I have held competitions at the office and in all the competitions were selected candidates... [[The best?]] ...who met the requirements and who were good. Very many candidates have applied for the place. Contest procedures are tests, you have to prove yourself to know. It's not like I'm appointing someone without looking at what its substance is. There are certain requirements to be met. Therefore, it is not easy to win a competition if you are not well prepared in substance, and here was the issue of apoliticity, because you could not become a director of the department if you belonged to a political party. So what you're saying about this setup... If you have such experience, it is your experience... I say that such competitions probably have happened, but if we take into account the number of competitions that take place, and in the case of 2.3% of them it turned out that they were somehow set up... That's criminal, so... [[Two, three percent were cases where...]] [[I'm sorry, Senator, I didn't give you the floor.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, you can't listen to these lies.]] [[But I didn't give you the floor. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.]] Mr. Zientarski asked for positive... I can, on the example of what is now, show that competitions are being held, that civil service is an apolitical service, this is a service that is to be properly prepared. The other thing is what you're saying. It's clear that when you win an election, you want people to be trusted in certain positions. So... [[I'm not talking about the election.]] But I'm explaining to you that the other thing is... Another issue is civil service. Civil service was set up to... this is an apolitical service, a substantive service, so that in the case of the political changes that are taking place, civil servants can carry out their duties all the time. In Poland, like in many European countries and in the world, we rely on well-prepared civil servants. I don't know if you know what a civil servant's exam looks like, what the requirements are, how difficult the exam is. After his opinion, you are a civil servant and you have certain privileges. What you want to do if this bill passes, two weeks vacathio legis, and then a month... And about 1 thousand 600 people in Poland will have contracts terminated from the automatic machine. If civil servants are among them, they will need to be given a different job. Civil servants, the civil service corps at my office in the Voivodeship was very much, because 9%. I know that this average is probably 7% in Poland. We have so many civil servants who have these privileges.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u46	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, rapporteur! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Mr. Senator, in the current legal state, the employment relationship of a member of the civil service corps temporarily arrested is suspended by law. However, a member of the civil service corps is subject to suspension even when disciplinary or criminal proceedings have been initiated against him. This principle shall be suspended in the case of officials performing high functions in the civil service corps. During the committee's meeting, were there any evidence that some of the high officials in the civil service corps were suspended in the exercise of their managerial functions?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u47	Thank you very much. Do any of you senators have any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Lychek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, let me start by saying that I admire you for giving this report so wonderfully, especially as regards competitions. I'd like to ask you what your opinion is about who won these competitions. Here's what I'm gonna say. As far as agricultural agencies are concerned, the restructuring agency, the real estate agency, the Agricultural Market Agency, is how Polish long and wide all competitions were won by representatives of PSL. But in others... For example, there are 20 directors in Anwil in Włocławek and everyone is from the Platform. Do you think these competitions were objective? Is that a good formula? That's not what I think. Thank you. [[Ladies and gentlemen...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u49	I'm sorry, Senator rapporteur, but you're still Senator Jan Dobrzyński. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u50	The same was true, Mr. Senator, Mr. Voivodeship, in Podlaskie Voivodeship. All competitions from this agricultural sphere were won by PSL activists, and in the voivodeship offices were won by all those associated with the Civic Platform. Even among the journalists there were opinions that the cleaning lady in the provincial office had to have some connotations, some family ties with members of the Civic Platform... [[Ask me a question.]] ...or was a member of the Civic Platform. [[And the question, Mr. Senator?]] That's what it looks like here. What do you think, Senator, but honestly?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u51	You will ask the question of Marshal Borusewicz. Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u52	I listened with interest to the question of Senator Dobrzyński, who was a voivode and knows this situation very well. Senator rapporteur, do the heads of agencies, agricultural agencies, Treasury agencies, etc. belong to the civil service? Does that include the bill? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Do cleaning women also belong to the civil servants? I'd like to ask you about other competitions, even the Chopin competition, but I won't ask. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[He'd have to be with the P.O. too.]] [[Mr. Marshal, are these all the questions?]] Yes. Does the Civil Service Act include agencies that have been exchanged, various types of agricultural agencies?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u53	Thank you. And one more question. Senator Slugocki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I was inspired. Mr Dobrzyński's very valuable voice, so naturally. Thank you very much, Senator, for the hint. Imagine I remembered your question in detail, as well as your dignity. Senator rapporteur, do cleaning women belong to the civilian corps? That's the first question. And the second question is this. In the current legal state, are the representatives of the civil service corps to be apolitical? Questions are naturally rhetorical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u55	I ask you, Senator rapporteur, to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u56	Yes, in the current legal state of civil service staff, of course, there is a policy. If this law is adopted by you today, then passed to the President and announced in the Official Journal of the Laws today, it will mean that this apoliticality will no longer apply from tomorrow. I ask you, as regards agencies, all the agencies you have exchanged and the cleaning staff, these are the various laws that govern the appointment of managers, heads of the institution concerned. We're just talking about the civil service, we're not talking about the agencies, we're not talking about the other units. Each law specifies who can be the boss, what requirements need to be met, what conditions to have experience. In this situation, we would have to consider each case individually. This also applies to the cleaning lady, because the cleaning lady must be able to clean, so there are requirements too. You can see if he can clean. If she came to me, I'd see if she could clean. If he can't, you may not accept it. Here you decide because there is no need for a competition, as it is for executive positions and more important positions. You keep thinking, I take it from the way you're discussing things with me... We're in the middle of a discussion, but because we're tired... [[I'm not tired.]] ...we slept a little, our discussion is what it is, we don't follow certain rules. That doesn't change the fact that, of course, you're going to insist that the competitions are unnecessary, that they're set, but you don't have... If you have proof of that, you have to. ♪ Like I said ♪ Please notify the relevant services. Oh, there was a question about the taller one... [[It's about suspension.]] ...the suspension of officials in higher positions. I don't really remember if we talked. It was a night, so two or three hours ago. I'm talking about people, about the number of people... I don't recall, so I don't think anything like that ever happened. [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u57	Will you answer me one at a time... [[Ask around.]] ...for all the questions? [[No, I've already answered all the questions in a group.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u58	Mr. Senator, don't you think it would be necessary, however, to trace the statistics on those who have been suspended? So that this provision can be amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u59	I think it's unconstitutional. Because you can't do that that we're going to divide civil servants into better and worse workers now. This is the third group of civil servants, according to the law. So, in my opinion, there is no doubt that what we are talking about here is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u60	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Rafał Ambrozik. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the hall: Another question about the champ competition.]] [[There was still such a wise question about the Chopin competition.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Well, yeah, we can have a laugh together.]] [[But it's for you, Mr...]] [[Why don't we sing another song or play something, huh? It's New Year's Eve, it's a nice day, maybe somebody's gonna play for us.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down... [[Senator, please calm the senator...]] Senator Rafał Ambrozik is asking a question. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question...]] [[Mr. Senator is still in the way, yeah.]] [[But Marshal Borusewicz asked a question. Answer me.]] Mr. Senator, you're not in session. I'm asking you to calm down. [[But it was for you, Mr. Senator Dobrzyński, that was a question.]] I'm asking you to calm down. You're asking Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question: to what extent has the administrative, official and, to what extent, the corps of civil servants grown over the last eight years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u62	In general, the office apparatus is a civilian corps. Almost everyone in the office, apart from the cleaners or the drivers, is a civilian corps employee. So we're talking about a civil service camera. I can tell you about this issue, if you would like, on the example of an office in which I was a voivode for 8 years. In the beginning, eight years ago, employment was about 800 employees. The province has a wide range of tasks that it performs. Part of the task was transferred to the marshal, part of the extra... But there were budget bets, there were auxiliary farms, and we took them out. I've been taking workers from auxiliary farms. There were, like, 130 employees there, and I took 30. I took out the public health center, and I had to take in some of the workers, 30 of them. And the employment was still at the same level as 8 years before, even though I had received additional workers. This number has been increased by 96 employees, because we introduced in Poland And that was, frankly, to a large extent, my initiative, the emergency call centers, I mean number 112. If you call now, they'll locate you, determine where you are, where you're at. And these employees, the 112 operators, are employed by the voivodship. So it was in this case that the workers arrived. And so it will be with medical rescue if it continues what I have proposed: that those who accept phone calls, in terms of medical rescue, be employed in the voivodeship, i.e. that it is the state administration. Because tonight, whoever wins the contest puts their operators where we pick up the number 999. And the point is that this system is a little bit different, so it's based on employees who don't change, so that it doesn't happen that after every contest there's a change. And if you want to invest in knowledge, train, then it's worth keeping your employees from changing. So there's probably gonna be a change here, too. But in general I'm answering your question. It can be different in different offices. I believe the Minister said yesterday that some 500 people are employed at the Prime Minister's office. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a lot of things. In the various ministries... In the smaller number of employees, there are more employees in the larger number of employees. At the voivodship offices... In the largest office there are probably about 1000 people employed, Mazowiecki, Wielkopolska and Silesia offices are the largest offices in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u63	Thank you very much. Now you ask Senator Jan Dobrzyński a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I ask you to draw the rapporteur's attention to answer all the questions. [[But he's not a marshal for you.]] [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]] You may not like Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, but you can judge his work differently... [[Mr. Senator, please...]] ...but you can't... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...but you can't post an ex-Marshal. [[Mr. Senator...]] And I'd like you to answer that question that you asked the marshal. And second question, Mrs. Marshal... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] And second question. Mr. Senator, please state specifically which provision of the Constitution this law disregards or where it is incompatible with the Constitution. Tell me exactly what's going on. Because you guys are still talking about the constitution, and probably... [[I read to you...]] ...you didn't read her.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u65	In a moment, Mr. Senator, rapporteur. I also ask you to ask Senator Adam Gawada.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have this question: why isn't Senator rapporteur answering all the questions? This is particularly about what happened at the committee meeting. Because we weren't at the committee meeting. I'm not a member of the committee. So we have the right to know what happened at the meeting. Let me remind you that the senator, Marshal Borusewicz, asked a question. And you didn't answer that question. Second question. On what grounds And was this the subject of the committee's deliberations? You said that after 1 January, civil service would be non-political? Please tell me whether this was the subject of a committee meeting and on what basis you made such a request. And the third question. Was this committee the subject of an analysis of the selection of members of the Civil Service Corps on the example of Mr Bure and Mr Kwiatkowski? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u67	Thank you. And I'm asking you a question from Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I declare myself a proponent of competitions, I can point out places where they are honestly and well implemented in my opinion. Now, back to our discussion, I would like to remind you that it really deals with the issue of about 1,400 and 1,500 people. And the question arises as to whether people who perform high state functions are voivodeships or ministers, cannot have in their surroundings those to whom they have full confidence. And didn't the obligation of competitions give rise to such a situation that political offices were growing, that there were also p.o. solutions, performing responsibilities that have been practiced and applied for years? In short, haven't the competitions for this narrow group of people led to certain pathologies that I mentioned, and shouldn't it finally be said openly that this needs to be changed for these reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u69	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u70	As far as Bury and Kwiatkowski are concerned, for the third time, I am saying that, as I recall, this case was not about civil servants. I told you there's a lot of competitions, and if that's the kind of conversation you're having, then the prosecutor is here to determine if the law has been violated. You asked me about apoliticity. At the committee meeting, there was a speech about it, and I'm gonna say right away... I will also return to the question of unconstitutionality. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it's in the constitution. I didn't bring her here, she's lying on her desk, but I was just quoting her the requirements of a civil servant. And there's, among other things. an apoliticity record. Therefore, we also discussed and discussed this at the committee meeting. And among others. The fact that you're introducing... I mean, it was the Sejm who introduced a provision in the bill that says that people with political legitimacy can also be appointed to these most important positions. Since the Constitution refers to civil service and this third group of employees is also civil service, it is to be presumed, as the legislator stressed at the committee's meeting, that this is unconstitutional. And the question is... I think we're going back to your Marshal's question, what's the composition of the Chopin contest, right? Is that what this was about? I don't know. I don't know. It's obvious that... [[But it wasn't a question for you. It was a question for Senator Dobrzyński.]] [[He takes you seriously...]] [[I take you seriously.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. Senator!]] [[I take you seriously.]] Well, in that case... [[I'm asking you to calm down.]] Therefore, I am unseriously replying to you that we are discussing civil service, about a very important topic, in my opinion, about the administrative apparatus in our country, and therefore the question about the Chopin competition is certainly inappropriate, as everyone has noticed. [[I agree with you here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u71	Senator rapporteur, thank you for answering my questions. And now you're asking Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I would encourage your rapporteur to be more bold when it comes to answering stupid questions. But I'd like to ask you if it's true that it's art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. I repeat: Article 1 of the Constitution. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 of the Constitution says: "In order to ensure the professional, reliable, impartial and politically neutral performance of the tasks of the State, the civil service corps operates in government offices. And is it true that art. 60 of the Constitution says: "Polish citizens who exercise full public rights have the right to access public service on equal terms? And is it true that you believe that as rapporteur The two constitutional provisions are being violated, firstly, through provisions introducing inequality of citizens in access to civil service and, secondly, by eliminating civil service based on the principles of impartiality, integrity and political neutrality? Is it true, once again, that I repeat my question that these two articles of the Constitution are being broken by the Parliamentary submission?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u73	Thank you very much. Sorry, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u74	Mr. Voivode... Mr. Senator, we're from the same region, so if you'll excuse me. I have so far understood that this apolitical approach to higher political positions was a great incentive for officials not to engage politically because they had to be outside any political party for several years. Could you tell me if this mechanism actually worked? How many years has it taken so far to be partyless to even run in a competition like this? Did the official who wanted to be in the civilian corps have to stay away from any political party many years earlier? Was that the mechanism?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u75	Thank you. You have another question, Senator Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u76	About that question you were talking about, Senator Augustine. That is a fundamental question, in my opinion. Mr. Senator, will an activist of the Civic Platform or the PSL, of course, a member of these parties, suspending their activity or participation, or will you consider membership the day before you enter the competition as apolitical? [[Voice from the room: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, the rapporteur...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u78	Senator Klich's question about the article. 153 and that second article... Of course, if we look at what it looks like today, it is clear: the law is not broken in any way. But if I repeat it This law will enter into force and be voted out, there is no doubt that we will violate this constitutional provision. It's just a matter of whether the Constitutional Tribunal will have the opportunity, because here's a big question mark... what's going on right now, which is the complete confusion we have in the country with the Constitutional Tribunal, with this control, with this fuse that's been turned off... So, what's next? Will the entry into force of this law give us the opportunity to check whether it is in agreement with the Constitution? If the Constitutional Tribunal is to deal with cases in the order of entry and composition of thirteen judges, and it will have to be composed of thirteen, then, as I said in this tribune... It's gonna be hard to complete a jury because it's an injury, because it's a disease, because it's other cases. So, as I said, in my opinion, we have a complete paralysis of the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, so it will not be possible to determine whether the provisions of this law are constitutional or unconstitutional. [[At this stage, I am satisfied with the rapporteur's reply. Thank you very much.]] [[You're welcome to answer more questions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, as far as this political objective is concerned, I will say yes. Yesterday, you said that it was about setting up people who would implement such assumptions and the goal of Poland to develop better, faster, that this is the main goal, and that this corps of the Civil Service, these higher posts, would be filled without competitions. I also said yesterday at the committee meeting that Poland has so far, over the years, twenty-five years, well, and over the last eight years it has developed very well. We are the best in Europe when it comes to... [[Voices from the hall: Yes...]] [[Voices from the room: No...]] Yeah, it was. For the last eight years, in terms of GDP, in terms of an important issue, this is the unemployment rate. Please take into account that the unemployment rate as it is today was, I don't know, a dozen years ago. So Poland is developing really well against other countries. And you also have to look at the external circumstances. So... [[Voices from the O.R.:]] [[Get to the point, Senator, get to the point. Please answer the question of apoliticity.]] So I'm answering that question about the apoliticity that came up. There's no problem here that for the country to grow, you have to put up with this apoliticality. Really, so far it didn't bother anyone, civil service didn't bother anyone, it was also possible to develop, it was possible to conduct competitions. You don't think so. You have the right. [[I didn't get the answer to my question, Mrs. Marshal.]] [[...on my question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u79	Gentlemen were asking about apoliticity. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room:... repeat...]] [[Yes, say it again.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u80	Mr. Senator, will an activist of the Civic Platform or PSL, a member of one or the other party suspending his activities the day before you enter the competition be considered apolitical? Please explain your answer, say yes or no, because I think you have an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u81	I don't remember, and I don't know cases like this that someone suspends membership, and it seems to me that suspension of membership isn't enough to give up membership. I don't think I'm 100%. Sure, but I'll check it out. So you don't have to suspend politics here, you just have to give up... As far as civilian service is concerned, there's a requirement that five years earlier... If you'd resigned five years earlier, I'm sure you would. I'd have you. If you'd given up your law and justice membership five years earlier and took part in a competition in my office, you'd have a chance to win this competition and become a director.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u82	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, then Senator Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u83	Thank you very much. Well, maybe I'll just... Because we don't really know the answer all the time, and that's what's bothering us. And listening to some senators, I noticed that not all of them have full orientation as to what a typical way of a senior official looks like. Let's assume, the director general of the office, what education he's supposed to have, what path he's going to take, and how long before he has to plan that he doesn't belong to any party. If you would kindly describe what the average career path of a civil servant is like, for example, one of the highest degrees in civil service. Director General... please tell us how old and how long their service to the state lasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u84	Thank you. Please, Senator Slugocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u85	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, rapporteur! You will admit that the way civil servants operate is also very important to protect the right to good administration. This right to good administration is linked to the procedural sphere of public administration. In this sense, it consists of a set of individual powers, a party to administrative proceedings, in proceedings before public administrations. And in this context, I have the following question. Is such a defined right to good administration reflected in particular in the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u86	Thank you very much. And I ask you to ask Senator Anthony Szymanski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am still returning to the question of what we have just discussed, namely the apoliticality of civil servants and this requirement, which speaks about 5 years and which is abolished by the new law. Shouldn't this abolition be constitutionally motivated by the fact that they should be equal... that the current solution violates equal treatment and is discriminatory? I mean, it makes life difficult for people out there to express their activity, and sometimes this activity was extremely modest. As I understand it, when they apply for admission to the civil service, they resign from participation in the group. And this long-term period excludes them from their activities for the sake of the common good. From a constitutional point of view, this obligation raises my fundamental doubts.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u88	Thank you very much. [[Yes.]] I'd like to see the Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u89	Yes, Mr. Senator, this is obviously a problem to solve. In order for this to be constitutional, the constitution should be changed. So if there's no record in the Constitution of the civil service's apoliticality and he's in the constitution, then it'll be clear. If you think this is the right direction, then all you have to do is make a change to the constitution so that it's in line with the constitution, and it'll be clear. Only you know how the constitution is adopted, what the procedure looks like. It is certainly not such a simple and rapid change, all the more so that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland was adopted in a referendum. So here's what I'm going to say, something even more important than the bill. Mrs Zdrojewska asked about the requirements for civil servants in higher positions, how it looks. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the National School of Public Administration, KSAP. You can graduate this school. After this school, you can become a civil servant. You can take exams for a civil servant. They're very difficult. At my office, I had one pass in a year, sometimes two pass in a year. So these are very difficult exams. There are requirements appropriate to work placements, as regards language skills, because you have to either take a language exam or prove to be an appropriate document in this regard. So there are many, many requirements to become a civil servant. And to stay, for example. the Director-General of the Office, it is necessary to meet further requirements which concern the Director-General, such as the requirement to work in a specific position, apoliticality, that is, what we talked about, etc. So you have to meet all these requirements. This isn't an easy procedure. So that we must value civil servants. we must continue to distinguish between civil servants and civil servants, because Once again, I would like to stress this. Civilian officials are 7% or 8% for all civil servants. I don't know if that's an adequate answer. As for this good administration in the European Union, there is no doubt that in the European Union it is ensured that the administration... As you have the opportunity and you are in other countries, you are in offices, magistrates and others, and you see that there is also a civil service, an independent service that performs its tasks, and politicians are involved at an appropriate level of activity.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking Senator Mieczysław Augustyn for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u91	Mr. Senator, Senator Szymanski pointed out that there were various ways of avoiding the competition route, e.g. on the appointment to perform duties or, let's call it, bet on people in political offices. Is it really your experience that this applies to civil servants? And if so, is there anything in the solutions proposed in this law that would prevent these pathologists, e.g. prohibition of employment on the labour market in the civil service for a certain period of time, or do we not know what number of people are employed in political offices? Is there such a thing in this bill? Or maybe the only remedy to be apolitical is to put up with apoliticality?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u92	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that we are asking questions that last no more than 1 minute. Senator Andrzej Stanisławek's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u93	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. You said there were about 1,600 members of the civilian service. Is that the number of employees, or is that the number of posts? And how many of these civil servants are in charge? And second question. Is it a way of avoiding the constitution, namely, breaking it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u94	Thank you. Senator Piotr Wach's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u95	Thank you kindly. My question is this. This is not my field, but please, based on your experience, kindly state what you think is the aim of apoliticity, which is enshrined in the Constitution. Is this about a certain It's a subtle thing. Is independence towards the political head or appointed head of government, or is it more about stability, that workers are constantly not changing, or that they are qualified in substance? It seems to me that here's the most delicate thing, but I don't know, there's a certain independence, a certain distance. 'Cause sometimes you have to say to the political leader that something is against the rules, or you have to make inconvenient suggestions. That's the kind of answer I'm asking for, also based on your experience.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u96	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u97	When it comes to political offices, I ask you, these are political offices at the level of ministries, in offices, e.g. in voivodship offices, there are no political offices, while there are assistants, advisors and there are a number of them. As far as political offices are concerned, I don't know the right law, but I think there's a certain number of people out there who might be in the political office. With regard to assistants, advisors, whether in the local government or in the regional office, there may be 3 and 7 such people depending on the city. These are the people who... if for example. The voivode will hire an advisor, and he will finish his job when the voivode is dismissed. So much for political offices. The theme of the competitions. Of course, as far as these responsibilities are concerned, they also have the right to compete in competitions. The Minister gave such an example that a large part, a group of those in charge then won competitions. The minister, on some example, said 60%. Well, ladies and gentlemen, every person in charge also has the right to enter the competition. Maybe she's good, maybe she has some knowledge, maybe that's why she was a duty person. So I wouldn't generalize. She probably has a little more knowledge, because if she does this function, maybe she has more experience, maybe it's easier for her to run in the competition. As far as civil service is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, it is in Poland. This information is no longer available. 120 or 130 thousand, the minister was talking about 120,000 employees in the civil service corps yesterday. And in the case of these 1,600 people, we're just talking about higher positions, more or less country-wide. So much would apply to this change after the introduction of this law, about 1600 people would automatically have their employment contracts dissolved. That doesn't mean at all, as you stressed, that this person cannot remain in office. If chosen, of course, he can continue to work in this position. And apoliticity. Of course, it was about the distance you were talking about, about the merology, so that an apolitical employee could tell his superior what he thought about the case, and so on, so that it wasn't such political subjection. So this apoliticity... Well, we probably weren't exploring America here. We are talking about democracy that this is a good way of ruling, and some say that another solution would be better, but no one has found this better solution, namely democracy is the best solution. As far as civil servants are concerned, this is the same here. This is the solution adopted in most countries, I do not know if in all possible countries I have studied this and it is difficult for me to say whether it is so, because you know what committee meeting it was about and what we were able to find out at this committee meeting at night and what we agreed on. It just happened to me to be a senator rapporteur because someone had to be a senator, and there wasn't very eager, because it's difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss this hour at night, and then to be the senator rapporteur after an unsleepy night. That's what happened to me. But that's more or less the purpose of apoliticality, and I think it worked well. If there were problems somewhere, you'd have to wonder if something couldn't be changed or something couldn't be improved. Because sometimes when something gets torn down, then it's hard to build anything or after a while it's gonna be hard to get all these cubes together and sort out another order, some sort of order that would be. Therefore, we may need to consider when such fundamental revolutionary changes are made. It is always better to improve, to change, to analyze, to have certain data that is used to draw conclusions, to analyze and go in this direction. And of course here, after the Constitutional Court, we have a second law that changes the functioning of the civil service in a strong and fundamental way. It is likely to be expected that today there will be another, third, law, also about the same scale of validity, to be considered.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u98	Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. A list of senators who wanted to ask a question... [[I'm sorry, but I didn't get the answer to the question. I'm so sorry. I asked the specific question whether the appointment to the post of duty...]] Please repeat the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u99	Isn't it a violation of the Constitution to appoint as a performer of responsibilities, namely to circumvent the law? 'Cause this breakup is being abused all the time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u100	I answered. [[That's why I'm asking you this question.]] I answered that question. I was talking about the responsibilities. Of course, there are people who do their duty. They can take part in the contest. If they won, they won. There's no breaking in here... [[But the vocation itself...]] Please? [[It's just a call-in mechanism.]] Ah, appointment. Depending on what position, can you call it or not? I don't know what you're talking about. As far as civil service is concerned, there are mandatory competitions, so today there is no appointment. If you introduce this bill of yours, you will invoke it. There's no appointment today.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u101	Thank you. Senator Ambrosik. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? Senator Ambrosik, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, a report by the Supreme Audit Chamber on the civilian corps appeared in 2011. There was a survey on the possibility of professional development of members of the civilian corps. This survey was completed by nearly 3,000 members of the corps, some employees, some officials. We can tell here that 28% surveyed assessed the promotion system as fair and transparent, in the assessment of 40% This system is unfair and nearly half have found it opaque. In the opinion of the respondents, the factors determining the injustice of the promotion system are unclear principles and knowledge and agreements. Please respond to this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u103	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u104	I don't think the state's changing anything very much, because civil service is still there. So that nothing changes in this respect. This is just a matter of consideration when it comes to promotion in the civil service, to which point it is promoted. There are certain groups. As far as civil service is concerned, e.g. Director General of the Office... There's, like, seven or nine groups out there. In order to reach this 7 or 8 group... every now and then, I don't know, maybe every 3 years you can move from group to group, but you have to prove yourself. So it's very difficult to get to the last group. In my experience... I know that at my office, the Director-General won't make it to retirement to get to the last group. But if there's a problem with that, we should take action on the promotion of the civilian corps. Because such voices are heard that this promotion is limited. So, of course, it would be worth thinking about and talking about what needs to be changed, so that young people, in particular, can be promoted more quickly because that is what we care about.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u105	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak again? No. Thank you, Senator Rapporteur. [[Respect.]] [[Applause]] The draft law was introduced by Members. To present the position of the government Okay, I'm gonna ask you to calm down. In the course of parliamentary work, Ms Beata Kempa has been authorised by the Minister of the Council of Ministers. Hello, Minister, very cordially. Would a government representative like to speak? I'd like to invite the Minister to the stand. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u106	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I would like to speak because many statements and statements, as well as the issues that have come to pass here, have missed the truth and have also missed the legal reality that we are dealing with when it comes to civil service. This is important because continuing to get into this situation can make you think that we are talking about some files that do not exist at all, or things that do not happen today when it comes to the issue of procedure. I want to make it clear here that, for example, The discussion on apoliticity, which I will go to in a moment, has been completely violated here. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's committee meeting, although late, but we are not avoiding work... [[Today.]] Today, well, it could be today. It was done in a good atmosphere. Although we differed in our views, I think the atmosphere, as far as the substance level is concerned, was very good, as I hereby state. Unfortunately, rapporteur, I am sorry, the rapporteur has not been able to write reports for the honourable senators since 4 a.m., although I think there was still time for this. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say clearly and clearly that when it comes to this apoliticality of all members of the civil service corps, it is in force. Today's law makes it clear that a member of the civil service corps cannot be guided by individual or group interests in the performance of his duties. That's what Art talks about. 78, whose attention! We're not changing it, so it's still in force. I'll also quote my lips. 2 of this article: a member of the Civil Service Corps must not publicly manifest political views. This will also apply. Finally, a member of the Civil Service Corps must not combine employment in the civil service with the Councillor's mandate. And your lips. 5, very important: a civil servant has no right to form or participate in political parties. Ladies and gentlemen, these are undisputed facts. We don't change this article, he stays. I understand that your doubts have arisen in connection with the change proposed by the applicant regarding the Head of Civil Service, but this is because you need to read the project well and understandably. As for the Head of Civil Service, I would like to explain immediately, in order to anticipate any questions you may have, to dispel any doubts before this question is asked that yes, we make such a provision that the Head of Civil Service, at the time of taking up office, will say simply: It cannot be part of a political party, which means we are abolishing the requirement for this period of 5 years. I am the only one asking what right, why the legal situation of the future, potential civil servant, is to be worse than e.g. the situation of the Ombudsman or the situation, I do not know, the President of NIK. There is no requirement that you cannot be a member of a political party within a period of 5 years. In this situation, we are abolishing the element of discrimination in this regard. We live in a free country and we can have political views. As regards membership of a party at the time of taking up office, this is a statutory requirement. I think this is the most rational solution in this matter. This is the first thing that really touched me here, because I thought the discussion was going in the direction of a completely undesirable one, and it was certainly due to the fact that this article should be cited. 78 Civil Service Act. This is the first, basic issue. The requirement of apoliticity remains and is, as a rule, a sine qua non of whether or not someone will be an official, a civil servant. And a few points, if your marshal, the High House, will allow, as an introduction, because they are extremely important. The position of the government, which was adopted in accordance with the provisions of the Council of Ministers Act and the Rules of Procedure of the Government, is a positive position. And now a few issues arising from this experience, because you most often ask about this experience. And rightly so, because whether a bill has any shortcomings or is, for example, ossified and needs to be changed is the result of practice. I think these questions are absolutely right. I am therefore in a hurry to respond to you on the basis of my practice as a member of the government over the last months, but also the practice I had in 2005-2007. There was a statement here that the competitions It aroused the greatest emotions. In the case of civil servants who are to exercise managerial functions, they are fictional or fictional. That's the fundamental difference. I always know what words I use. If they're fictional, I'll agree with Senator Augustine... If it's a question of pathology in the competitions, we have to notify the D.A. Okay, we're in full agreement. On the other hand, assessing whether the legal solution as a whole is fiction or not Whether it serves the proper functioning of the civil service or not, this is a category that we are allowed to discuss both in the political forum and in any other forum. Well, I say that this legal solution is a fictional solution from the point of view of the practice that it is. I would like to say to you that the civil service corps currently has 120 000 employees and officials. And it is not true, which is often raised in the public debate on this law, that this body disappears as a result of the introduction of new provisions. Again, it's not true. Just as it is not true that of these 120,000 1,600 civil servants are officials in higher positions. And this solution concerns this group. And now, what's the point? According to the new law, these positions, these 1,600 posts, can also be held by officials from this civil service corps. I will say more: it is already today that a percentage of these officials are asked to cooperate in higher official positions. Because they are professional, because they are very well prepared, because they are indeed a guarantee of very professional management of the department concerned, and the level of their qualifications is so high that the minister thought that they should be offered cooperation. And now, what happened on the basis of that law that was in force? Even if I found people like that as the head of the firm... For example, at this moment I found three new potential directors of departments, very important departments in the Prime Minister's firm. And what do I have to do now so that they can serve their work very quickly and effectively as, I repeat, members of the civilian corps? Well, on the basis of this bill, it's imperative that this person cooperates with me first... I'm explaining it in a very simple way, you can say, a bit of a paradigm way, but I think that's the point, because there's too much noise around this bill. This noise is made by people who, in my opinion, have not read the bill or understand this mechanism. I'm not making a charge of it. This can simply be due to the fact that there has never been contact with this type of procedure. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's be in agreement with this morgue bill, which until yesterday was in force... [[Voice from the room: It was not ossified. Besides, it still applies...]] It still applies, I'm sorry, until I publish... That's it. That's it. That's it. But yesterday it became a fact because the Sejm passed a new bill that is in the Senate today... Well, ladies and gentlemen, first such a person shall be appointed as Deputy Director of the Department or Director-General and a competition which usually lasts three months shall be drawn up. Is it fiction? It's fiction, because he, first of all, is the director, except he's got to be the deputy director first to sign up the competition. Statistics show that these competitions win over 60% or close to 70% That's the people. It shows life. So I'm asking you why do this, if you can call him right away, and if he doesn't respond to the highest qualifications, the requirements, he won't keep pace, he won't put his hand in the hand of change, he'll just cancel. Then we make things clear and honest. Not much, the guarantee resulting from the Civil Service Act remains for such a person, an appointed official, i.e. the one who comes to the highest degree. We have to guarantee him, we have to offer him another position. Only when he does not accept this proposal will there be a mechanism to terminate the terms of the agreement. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say once again that all these concerns you have may be due to insufficient knowledge of the mechanism that operates or will operate under the new law. And just so we're clear. But it is also true that this solution is intended to serve another purpose. However, as I said, very many members of the civilian corps of these highest qualifications are already getting proposals for this transition for the time being, you can say, not a very perfect procedure. And this is the bypass I was talking about at the committee meeting. But it is generally important to say that in our country we should proceed with an evaluation of the administration, an evaluation of its functioning. It's about time. That's not enough, it's not our will, that's what the citizens are asking us to do, and in this situation we're going to make that assessment. Today, the issue of one of the agencies was raised, and I also cited this example at the committee meeting. These are shocking data, but this is already being written by the media and no one has questioned and reported these statistics, their credibility in doubt, did not refer the case to the court, so I suppose they are as true as possible. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in one of the agencies for about 3629 employees of 1707 people, i.e. more than half of them, it is strange that they have the same names. [[In what way?]] So there is a separate question of how to eliminate pathologies, which unfortunately have grown. [[Voice from the room: Right, eliminate.]] If you don't mind, please... I will be really very open and ready to answer questions, but I hope that in the Senate, Mrs Marshal, there are rules that should apply to every and especially to such a respectable chamber as the Senate. Well, ladies and gentlemen, another issue is that for many years in various laws, as well as regulations, various types of added solutions have grown, and in fact these laws have become either ossified and already completely, you can say, threaten the state's capacity and capacity of administration, or even puriozal, as is the case for example. with the issue of salaries. Please note And it has to be said clearly and clearly that it is not normal, regardless of which option governs, at this point it is not important When the director of the department or the director of the subordinate unit earns more than the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland or the President of the Republic of Poland, something is wrong. And I think you can see that it is high time to evaluate such solutions as well. At the same time, we do not make a plea that these people, when they receive this remuneration, act badly. No, I'm just talking about the mechanism and what has been disorderly for many years and has become pathology. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Coming back... Here I wanted to explain the mechanism of the competitions, why we wanted to leave them and make a clear point. But here's the thing: the appeal. Mr. Senator Slugocki You also asked about it yesterday, I see that today you have the same doubts, but well, we're here to explain them to ourselves. On the other hand, he took the issue of appeal, or perhaps more appeal as a result of e.g. the circumstances that are related to the temporary arrest... I'll tell you what... 'Cause you're here, too, as if... I'm really not making a plea, but I have this feeling that you're confusing the suspension with the appeal. If in the case of a civil servant we have And that's what's left of it. The issue of suspension, e.g. he will be temporarily arrested, it is already in the case of an official who has a higher position, so he is more on a candlestick, which as if he shows more what the Polish state looks like, we introduce such a solution, that if there is such a suspicion, we can always cancel such a person. After all, today the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland can also appoint a minister and at any time cancel, and no one cries over spilled milk, does not wonder what this man will do the next day or in two days. In the case of a lower-level official, there is still a valve that can be suspended. But imagine this situation, and it's hypothetically possible, and I'm about to tell you exactly what happened in 2009... because you're going to complain about it, and you're asking why this person is to be called off, because we have a presumption of innocence, and then it should just be suspended... No, if he's performing higher functions, he should be out of the loop on all suspicions. And what if such an official is e.g. A temporary arrest, and the circumstances of the case indicate that this is a pedophilia case? So, you want to continue to be suspended, as a clerk, you can say, almost the highest rank? But should we put in place such a solution that the head of the unit will have the opportunity to revoke such a person? And, uh, I'll tell you more, you didn't have any scruples without following any procedure... You were also talking about the principle of presumption of innocence before. And what did you do with the head of the CBA, Mariusz Kaminski? In the absence of the procedure, you have dismissed the head who, in addition, had the statutory term of office, i.e. the relationship, which is particularly protected in this situation. You didn't have any resistance, even though later it turned out that the case was what it was like... The case was evidently political, evidently political, and then you broke all the bans. We want to end this fiction and give this opportunity to the manager or the minister, the head of the individual, to cut through this situation. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, the question has also been asked... So that we do not confuse the issue of the civilian corps, the investigation in this corps to specific degrees of development, because it remains and is unchanged. An employee may later become an official, an official may be an appointed official... I will say more, in the years 2005-2007 we allowed this path of promotion, because so-called. the limits that we are required to provide under the Act... Every government, at any time, whatever it may be, must set 3-year limits in the Budget Act for appointed officials, i.e. how many people after this complicated procedure can become appointed officials, whose employment relationship is better protected, but who also has a duty to be more available. And we allowed this year around 1400, 1500 civil servants. What's it like today? You've only made it possible for 200 people. Only 200 people. This was the case, for example. for the current year. We've taken over the budget bill as we've taken over, but from next year we're going to make it possible again... Today, you are taking great care of the officials, but you have not given them the opportunity to reach a greater degree of promotion, which would satisfy their contribution to work and also contribute to personal development. And these are undeniable facts. So much for entry, I think, Mrs. Marshal. The rest of the questions will come out. Let me just say that, in addition to the opinion which one of your senators was kind to ask during this debate, during the round of questions to the Senator, there is the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, and this opinion is neither devastating nor evil. This is an absolutely reasonable opinion, and we followed it during the process of the bill. I would like to say that the Act in its original form... Draft Act No. 119, e.g. He deleted the Civil Service Council. Following the good advice of the professor in this opinion, Members proposed an amendment. Your opinion was made by Dr. Hab. Maria Gintowt-Jankowicz. And they've introduced... They had every right to do that. As they were entitled to a legislative initiative, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, they were also entitled to amend the law. And the amendment was introduced by the Civil Service Council. Not much, there's no political factor there. And in the case of the Civil Service Council, parliamentary clubs had the right to report their members there. It's not like that today. So that the remarks that we're politicalizing civilian service... Really, you have to have a lot of bad will to find such records in this project. It's the opposite. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, there was also, you can say, an opinion that emerged as a result of the initiative of the government itself... I am talking here about the Association of Graduates of the National School of Public Administration, a school that I personally, as a constitutional minister, value very much, and I also valued it earlier, as a Member and as a citizen in general. Graduates themselves graduates, i.e. those who are in my opinion best prepared to evaluate the functioning of the administration And they even provide some elements, which are also included in the new law discussed here, in the draft new law, and now in the law that has passed to the Senate, have been largely taken into account. And the last answer... There was this, you might say, belief that what a civil servant doctor has to do with, apparently, veterinary. Well, it does, of course it does. Because there's also a body and there's requirements. Today, they say you're out of line. That's not true. It is the pragmatic laws, scattered after many acts, that lay down these requirements. And a boss like that has to meet these demands, answer, from the bill... to have the right to perform the function at all. So much so, Mrs. Marshal, as an introduction. Of course, I am ready to answer all your doubts and questions. I hope I can do this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u107	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jan Rulewski was the first person to be asked the question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u108	Minister, you seem to be, as I say, very modest about the story of the bill under discussion here. In particular, you have accused the issue of appointing senior workers on the basis of trust. And my question is this. Even if you take into account your views on the extent to which you are concerned... Why did you lower your requirements? You or your fellow Members, but you are the defender of this position... Why did you overwhelm these people with benefits, privileges and at the same time lower requirements? So does this trust mean that people will be able to come to the service we are talking about as a tram, without a ticket, as a stowaway?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u109	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz. [[No, thank you.]] You're thanking me, aren't you? Okay, this is Senator Andrzej Stanisławek. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u110	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have not received the answer to my question from the Senator rapporteur, so I would like to ask the same question to the Minister. How many of the 1 000 600 members in civil service posts can be presently performing their duties, i.e. they are called out of competitions? And isn't skipping competitions for positions, and just appointing responsibilities, breaking the constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u111	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u112	Can I do it now? [[Yes.]] Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. In answer to Senator Rulewski's question and doubts, I would like to say this: without repeating a lecture on the specifics of the civil service and who can be the appointed official, who is... [[Higher.]] If you don't mind... Yes, yes, of course, Mr. Senator, and also a higher one. I said that, on the one hand, we can draw from the rich stock of the civil service corps, which we also do here. On the other hand, we must pay attention to the fact that I have not spoken about, and which is extremely important, because we are not standing in a place as a country, of which we should absolutely enjoy and be proud. In recent years, the law on administrative departments has changed, as you remember, and new administrative departments have been created in this law on departments. Such a department is e.g. Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, a very important Ministry and a very important department that can contribute to even better development of our country. And that's what's going on here? In addition to the medium layer, the medium body In addition, these people have been transferred from various ministries so that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs can become operational, and higher-level staff are needed, including those of a very specialised nature. There is a need to have extremely specialised knowledge in this area, and such people are not yet, to the end, found in civil service resources. But that's what we're going to work on. And ours, or at least my conversation. At the last meeting of the National School of Public Administration, the Council of the National School of Public Administration went in this direction. The school is open to meet the new requirements of life and to prepare such officials. We need another one today, Senator. And I'm going to say it again here, in a public forum. 'Cause I already said it in committee. You also fought to make this access to different professions much wider. And this is a bill that I would call an absolute deregulation act, because we don't just close ourselves in one shell, within one formation, one service, but we open up. And I ask, Mr. Senator: why should we underestimate people, especially young people who are after many universities today? And they end it in our country. "Speaking great languages, with incredible energy and incredible potential..." But, Mr. Senator, we've shut them down for many years, also since 1989. Why are they building their careers outside our country today? Why are they producing other countries' GDP? Why can't they make their dreams come true here? [[Applause]] [[Oh, come on.]] And that's why, Mr. Senator, let's be here together, let's bow to these young people, because it's possible under this law. Let's trust them. I would be really far from saying these are random people, that they're tram people or that they're people who don't work. Each head of the unit is responsible for the level of operation of this unit, so I can't imagine that I would also accept random persons or cause the director of the department, a very important department, one, two or three, or the CEO of the unit to be a person without experience, because it would be as if I would also be exposed to a certain responsibility. So let's really trust those who choose these staffs. We want professional staff, but we also want mobile staff at the highest level. We trust these young people, and we want to trust them, and we want to open them up to them. If the civilian corps... And as far as I know today, he also wants to undergo various kinds of trainings, these people even ask for them, and the National School of Public Administration is ready to expand its profile, its offer. So since we're opening up this possibility, we're really doing well for different services and different people in this area. That's why in my opinion, Senator. And I will repeat it because I really believe that the Polish Sejm and the Polish Senate should have such ambition today The Polish constitution, which we so often refer to, needs to be verified, and rightly so, because it is in the hierarchy of law the highest legal act, to verify the article. 17 of this constitution, which is the powerful influence of corporations today on our lives. It's such a big influence that I think he's taking us back, not leading us forward and not bowing to young citizens. In general, I think that we should implement a resolution, a resolution of the Sejm, which was taken when the constitution was adopted. There, probably after 10 or 15 years, a comprehensive assessment of the functioning of this constitution in the Polish legal system was to be carried out. It wasn't done. Today maybe... I will allow it, because I am also a Member of the Sejm, the Constitutional Minister, and I will say that if today the President of the Constitutional Tribunal or the First President of the Supreme Court has doubts, which I apologize very much. He is able to dismantle within 5 minutes the court's application concerning the law under which the law is to act... Presidents of the courts, judges, prosecutors, ministers, civil service corps officials and not only, the elders, mayors, attention! They apply the law which the Sejm and the Senate adopt. If the bill is published, it applies. I repeat, every applicant would have a negative two and wouldn't have passed any exam if he had applied the wrong law or the wrong one. If anybody has that kind of doubt, they should think about it. Ladies and gentlemen, we should take this, and this is also the spirit of this bill. And as for all the pathologies that are and have grown, they just need to be fought. And it's not difficult, ladies and gentlemen. This requires only will, determination, proper approach and standing in the truth, not in a lie. Because we can turn around in this sauce, tell stories, demand different kinds of opinions, like not this one, it's another, as it doesn't suit us, yet a thousand others, except that we, so to speak, are trampling in the same place and not developing the professionalization of the service, including these positions. And what we're really causing is that the sense of an ordinary citizen. And that's what we're talking about mostly, that's what we're talking about. The sense of the ordinary citizen that the state is ahead of him, and the administration is efficient, finally efficient and effective... And that's also what this bill is all about. As for this statistics, which you kindly asked Senator Stanisławek, I will say so, Senator, so we know what we're talking about. You're talking about responsibilities, and this is completely different from the mechanism that I was talking about, which is when you set up, for example. replacing the Director-General or replacing the Director-General of the Department. It's a different category than duty. If you're strict He asks about the responsibilities, we have the statistics that we have now managed to download in this difficult situation. Well, in 2012 there were 98 responsibilities. This also shows that the competitions simply did not work or last too long, and it was necessary to quickly establish the performer so that the entity could act so that it could, for example. in time to prepare payouts for people to perform these simplest tasks. Because acting, as the name suggests, may have a problem with the strategy, with giving long-term activities to the individual. You need someone to come up with a contest. One more basic point to a possible discussion, perhaps overlooking certain doubts. The new law does not prohibit the publication of a competition, it does not eliminate this possibility. The head of the unit can schedule a contest. Why not? Show me an element in the bill that would prohibit the competition from being published. So I think that as far as this situation is concerned, all your doubts have already been resolved. Which is why before these kinds of charges arise, I'm asking you to... Of course, it's not easy matter. On this subject, full agreement And you need to get into it a little bit, but before you formulate such enough, ladies and gentlemen, general courts... If we're being watched by professionals or civil servants even at this lower level, they seem to be smiling a little bit when it comes to knowledge of matter. And that's what we'd like to avoid as the chosen nation. I hope so. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. [[In Ripost mode.]] In Ripost mode. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u114	Minister, you have so far been known, at least from media reception, as a person who had the ambition of combining ethical and political principles. This is a big challenge. However, I would ask you not to dismiss me from this good promise... You haven't answered my question, very important. I asked why, by accepting your philosophy, your axiology of appointing senior civil servants based solely on trust, you have lowered the requirements for these people, and at the same time you are pushing for the direction of granting privileges. And so, first of all, these people, as you define them, will be marked with a census of trust, as if there was no such trust in the others. Secondly, any requirements concerning internship or even education have been deleted, at least as regards the position of director. Next: the obligation to acquire knowledge in this civil service has been deleted. Next: additional salary added, functional supplement. This mode of appointment and cancellation is also special. In other words, Minister, you support the direction I don't think that's right for you. The creation of caste in caste. [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: Mr Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u115	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u116	Do you mind if I... Thank you very much for the first words that were an extraordinary compliment to me, but I would like to say and dispel your doubts that it is not that we want to create or that I want to create God forbid, I'm just a minor member of the government The caste In a caste. Here's what I'm gonna tell you: this caste in caste already exists now. And we want to achieve a completely opposite effect. I repeat once again: a little more trust in our Polish people, especially young people, citizens. Imagine this situation, and it's not hard to imagine, Mr. Senator. The young Pole, who has finished two, and often three faculty, is in the course of further postgraduate studies. The fact that he speaks great languages... is now the standard among young people. It's not like... That's standard. In addition to all this, he has so many internships during his studies and he takes up so many different kinds of projects... Often these people, who are twenty-six years old, have already started their doctoral cords. And I'm asking, Mr. Senator, why shouldn't I trust such a man just because he doesn't meet, for example, the requirement of five years of being in charge. I'll tell you more, he didn't have the opportunity to be in this leadership position, for example, he had no back or no friend, or he didn't sympathize with the political party. We want to make things right. And I firmly believe, Senator, that you also want to make things right and give these young people a chance. Because before 1989, I think that's what it was about. "To give young people a chance, "to those who wanted freedom and who, not merely belonging to the right and united, had no such opportunity. Only that after 25 years we still find that those who do not belong to the only Platform or the only PSL, simply do not have this possibility, and are really much better prepared than even us ministers. And I'm pretty clear on that. And I want to stand up for it. It will be a great joy for me to cooperate with such people, because they are the driving force behind our economic development. They're the bike. Today they're abroad with these open doctoral cables. And anyone who goes to them hears one thing... With tears in their eyes they say, Minister, we don't even sell 1% here. Your knowledge. No job disgraces us, and we're functioning on this dishwasher. Only I ask: why not here and why not in the highest positions? They deserve it. Civilian corps officials deserve this, too. And that's what we're doing. Today these four great directors that I found, and who were out there somewhere after these offices, in short, functioned and worked very well... For me today, it is my greatest joy and privilege to cooperate with these civil servants. And I intend to continue to do so, also under the new law. They're gonna get an offer like that right away. And that's why before we go to these really slimy courts... I encourage this House that I really thought yesterday was... It's been said that this is the House of Ponder. No, last night's committee meeting led me away from that belief. It was a very good discussion, very good discussion. And I encourage you to support this bill. In particular, a great bow towards very well-prepared staff today, which do not have a chance to break through simply because of pathology that exists, simply pathology. Let's cut down on these pathologies. I ask the senators very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u117	Thank you very much, Minister. Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...there are still questions. You're still the senators enrolled in the questioning.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u118	I'm very sorry, but the Minister didn't answer my second question. On the first. Yes, thank you very much, but I didn't get an answer to the other one. I asked if skipping the competition, appointing a position for which there should be a competition performing duties... Those in charge, by bending the law, carry out these duties for even a few years. Isn't that a constitutional violation?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u119	It's definitely pathology, Senator. She says that... well, there's a very long contest procedure, and there's a question of these decisions. That's the kind of very rigid framework that has been set up under the new law... Perhaps her spirit, the idea was good once, because there were other realities, but today we see that life has moved forward and we stand back. And that's why there's these responsibilities-related situations. The only question is: does the pragmatic law allow this or not? And that's where it's from. A record that was questioned yesterday only by, I repeat, a legislator... I'll be honest with you, I had this feeling yesterday. I'm a brave person and I'm allowed to talk about feelings too, and I still want to believe that I live in a free country. That the legislator had taken a strong role as a possible senator yesterday, he became a very strong Senator. You can have ambition if you want to, let it stand. And here, as we know, the rules are very serious and very sharp, there are one-mandate districts He always has the right to do that. There's been a defense lately, a great defense of the Constitutional Court... And I ask: if already a priori is determined that something is contrary to the constitution before it is passed, then why this House? What's the point of this House now that we're saying something is against the constitution? Of course, you can always have doubts. So if the pragmatic law allows the performer to perform his duties, that's usually the case. But it can't be that it's a permanent situation or that it's turning into a permanent situation. But where there is no such requirement, as I say, this particular bypass, when it comes to civil service, is done. He's within the limits... maybe we should say he's within the limits of the law. But just because we cannot deal with the issue of improving the efficiency of administration, such things are done. So this bill is because it doesn't cause this or force the unit's managers to act at the border of the law. And they have to, because they just don't have any other option, because there's obstruction, because there's action, very gently speaking, functional. I mean, in the United States, it's like this. And we should strive for certain standards, although I do not like everything, what is there, my Polish backyard in many cases I like more and some solutions to the Slavs do not fit... It's a slight digression by the title of our New Year's Eve meeting. Anyway, in the United States, the boss comes and at least lists the steering corps. Because if he's going to pursue a strategy that he's set up with a nation or society, he's got to have people at his disposal to ensure that this implementation is fast, undisturbed, because that's what citizens expect. And all the brakes and mechanisms in this matter simply need to be removed. And here's the thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. The list of senators who want to ask you questions isn't over yet, so please stay. You're asking Senator Piotr Zientarski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u121	Minister, two questions in this round. First. It is undoubtedly constitutional matter, all opinions clearly speak about it. I ask: why do you not take into account, among other things, the opinion of the Attorney General, who clearly claims that the execution of these tasks in a politically neutral manner is the main ratio of civil service legis? And here you are quoted Professor Banashak, the person whom Mr Ziobro referred to as the only constitutionalist here last week. And you also refer to him as the Attorney General. However, you do not take completely into account a clear statement of non-constitutionality, let alone other opinions. I'll talk to you about it in a minute. And second question. Who's calling... Because the Minister said that the Civil Service Council was political because candidates were submitted by individual clubs in the Sejm. In that case, what kind of apolitical authority is reporting candidates for duty at the moment... [[Advice.]] ...the Civil Service Council, so to speak, transformed? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u122	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Szymanski for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u123	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It has been made clear that the withdrawal from competitions under this law concerns around 1400 and 1500 people. At the same time, many opponents of this law, as well as some media, force such an opinion that the government has no objections to competitions, that competitions are not a good solution. And you're trying to expand it unauthorizedly. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for an opinion on this matter. What's the position, if that's the case, of you or the government for the competitions? I see the fact that in many areas, for example in the courtroom, competitions for a probationary position are working out and improving the state of the case; I think that is also the case in many other services. What is your position on this matter?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u124	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u125	Thank you very much. Maybe I can answer Senator Zientarski first. Mr. Senator, maybe I'll answer the second question first. Art. 19 of the new law on civil service, this novel sets out the procedure for setting up a council, the composition of the appointed council. And I didn't use the phrase that the previous council was political; that's a thought shortcut. Perhaps that's what you understand, but that's a misunderstood. [[That's what I said.]] Good. I'll explain that again, no problem. I may seem impatient, but I think I have a lot of patience today. Well, Mr Senator, Mr President, the composition of the council and its character, which has been so far... They could have been assigned to this squad... The members of the Council may have come from appointments or appointments; they are members who were members of parliamentary clubs. And that's why I'm here as if I showed you the key. This council has always acted with the President of the Council of Ministers, because it is simply the President of the Council of Ministers who is responsible for civil service and its state. And it's obvious that the location of it here has to be. Civil service is not a state in the state and cannot be. That's what this bill is for, too, so it wouldn't be a state. And in this situation, of course, there is a certain provision, but the council is an advisory and advisory body, and that is the nature of the council we are essentially maintaining. The Council has a total number of 7 and 9 members, which is Article. 20. The President of the Council of Ministers shall appoint the members of the Board from among the persons corresponding to the conditions laid down in Article. The 4th point of the first paragraph, whose knowledge, experience, authority, guarantees the proper performance of the Board's tasks. Knowledge, experience, authority Here we have an answer to the question of the qualifications of those who will sit on the Council. [[So you think that different political clubs in the Seym are more political than one prime minister?]] No, but after all... But, Senator, where there's a ban, for example. Did the President of the Council of Ministers consult parliamentary clubs? He can do it. The bill doesn't prohibit it. So if there's a charge or there's a lot of pressure, the President of the Council of Ministers will be able to talk. We are creating here, as you can see, Senator, a more universal solution to those that are too casuistic in our view, and as if they are closing the possibilities also to the President of the Council of Ministers. [[You don't believe what you're saying yourself, Minister.]] So, in this situation, please note that this interpretation may be going both ways, Mr Senator, and you can sometimes deny yourself in your own statements. And that's the first line. First question... If the senator would be kind enough to repeat it because I'm already 50 years old, and I can... [[Mr. Senator Zientarski...]] [[I asked for a clear opinion of the Attorney General...]] Yes, yes, well, of course. [[...and referring to Professor Banashak's authority...]] Of course, of course. [[...who was summoned by Minister Ziobro only to support his claims.]] Sure. I would encourage one thing, I would always encourage my fellow politicians... opinions of all kinds of bodies, which are extremely important, valuable, are not binding opinions. That's the view of the case. They don't tie us up. The nation has chosen us... [[Isn't the Court's judgment binding?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...and the sovereign has entrusted us with such power that we can make laws. If we think that some system isn't working and we're convinced of it... But there are also positive opinions, because as we know, we use different opinions, although we are guided by decisions about solutions, also with our own mind and experience. And sometimes it is, Mr. Senator... I will repeat this with one of the gentlemen whom I appreciate very much, who is the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, and who once said clearly and clearly that as deeply as the Constitutional Tribunal respects, it does not agree with one of its solutions. I will paraphrase this saying: as deeply as I respect some offices and some people who construct such opinions, sometimes I just disagree with them just as deeply. Although we take note of these opinions, they are and certainly are an opinion on the matter, perhaps they are also a contribution to many works, to the development of science in our country. [[They're for use.]] This is absolutely legitimate and possible. But they're not binding, Mr. Senator, we can't tie our hands and impose certain solutions. In our view, Members or other bodies with legislative initiatives have proposed specific solutions so that we can discuss them and accept them or not. And the second question that... [[Senator Szymanski's question about the competitions.]] Senator Szymanski's question. Mr. Senator, full agreement on the question of this competition. For example, there's an office like the Public Procurement Office. And I, as Minister, would indeed be afraid not to announce the competition. It is so specialized knowledge and so important knowledge that it is good that such a competition under the law is distributed. And, for example, Now, a contest like this is set up. And there are places where this competition is really needed, because it's about getting to many people. But there are situations where these competitions are actually, as I said, just a pure fiction inscribed in the expressis verbis act. However, the fact that the bill does not prohibit the publication of the competition, makes it possible for me, if I wish, to write it down, to set up a committee, to invite a wide circle of people to take part in such a competition. It is only a matter of flexibility and a matter of very efficient management, in this case the management of government staff. Once again, it is the citizen's intention to feel that we are being handled efficiently. It's the voter's job to feel that the program he's agreed to with those who won the election is being run smoothly. And that's the goal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Marek Rocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u127	Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for correcting the information that the Senators of the PiS had just provided. Senator Dobrzyński, if I have noted correctly, said that 60% Instead of going through the procedure, you corrected it by saying it was 60 people, which is less than 0.5%. I think that's important information. And my question is that part of what you said, in which you said that some people in higher positions have too much to pay, that this problem needs to be solved and seen. Do you think that granting these people a function supplement, as proposed by the law, solves the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u128	Thank you very much. You will ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, just now delivered by you as a lawyer and constitutional minister, I must say, I am very relieved because I am also in favour of the American solution. I also agree with the taboon of young educated people. I urge you to accompany the Prime Minister and inform the public of this because, for the time being, he is convinced that a group waiting or crawling in the place of PiS sympathizers is waiting for these positions. But I believe your words. I'm sure this isn't our last meeting, and, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to remind you of this Americanization and this young wave of well-educated people. I am an entrepreneur and creating several companies, for many, many years I have also surrounded myself with wise young people who have brought added value. If that's the case, I'll be the first to congratulate you. I believe deeply that you're not saying that because you're trying to calm us down, but because you're saying that. But I'd like to ask the Minister a question. You are a lawyer and you probably know that the Civil Service Council and the Supreme Bar Council have already expressed a very critical attitude towards the bill. And, by the way, I'd like to ask you one brief question. The two institutions accuse you of trying to politicise the civil service, and the new project does not legally allow you to suspend persons who are in positions and are subject to disciplinary or criminal proceedings against them. I'd love to get an answer from you because it's important.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u130	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u131	I can do it now. Yes? Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Maybe I'll answer Senator Rocke first. Mr. Senator, the Senator of Law and Justice has made no mistake, but again this data is due to a misunderstanding or a shortcut of thought, or a shift of thought from some sort of service to some sort of service. I'm in a hurry to explain. Well, that's 60%. Which the senator gave... He was right, because over 60% are the people who win the competitions, and before that, they were replacing the directors... [[That's not what he said.]] That's how I understood it. And as for 6%... 6% This is a participation in the civil service corps of appointed officials. That's the 6%. Perhaps these percentages... Maybe we're tired, too, and before New Year's Eve... [[I'm sure, I'm sure.]] Then let's not use shortcuts. That's all right, Mr. Senator, I assure you. So no one here made a mistake. As for the issue of earnings, which Mr. Senator was kind enough to articulate... That's the big problem I signaled earlier. Let us not hide it, it is not right, and it is not a fact from which we could be responsible for the functioning of the state self-satisfied, it is not. Of course, the state's finances always determine pay issues, including the level of remuneration of the civil service corps or the level of remuneration in the administration. Just, listen up, we'll call the Prime Minister's Chancellery. and this will become a fact in the new year The evaluation centre of administration, because, as I said, it is the decision-making of certain laws, firstly, pragmatic, secondly, wages, thirdly, various types of regulations, fourthly, staff decisions that make many places see a lot of problems to solve. I don't want to use the word "pathology," although it should be considered... Look at this, for example. As a result of this growing, things happen. The Prime Minister works at the office, he is employed about 500, depending on the moment... Well, let's say about five hundred and twenty-seven people, and in one of the voivodeship offices over 1000 people. Well, is this, given the scope of the action, a normal situation or not? Should this be arranged or not? Well, I guess we all think it's rational. Again, I don't want to make any specific accusations here. He wants to show you the process, what's been going on for many years and what's going to happen today. It is similar with these salaries. If a department director or a director of a unit that is subject to the Prime Minister, he earns e.g. Almost twice as much as the Prime Minister or the President of the Republic of Poland... This situation will probably have to be dealt with and probably approached, although, to be clear, from the point of view of the Prime Minister, this is not the most important problem. It is a person who serves Poland and certainly would not want to... But as head of the firm, I think I have the right to raise that problem. And finally, the question of... And that's probably gonna be the issues we're gonna face. Functional additives. There have always been functional allowances, motivational allowances, there have always been such elements that were supposed to reward for very good work, of course they were used differently. There were also prizes, variously described by the media, by tabloids, variously rated. These instruments were, are, and will be, Mr. Senator, but it's only a matter of establishing a certain gradation. Well, every government is afraid of that because the possible very selective treatment of these issues by the media causes that later reception is unambiguous. This problem is clearly signalled today, although it is not the most important problem. Finally, to answer Senator Komarnicki's question... Well, I'm glad we agree. I hope that when we meet, I can tell you that also from the civil service corps, not only from so-called... people from other entities, including those from the civil service corps, will perform these high management functions in the administration. This is the process we're starting. Surely every law will be subject to our assessment and should be subject to such an assessment. And finally, when it comes to opinions, Once again, the question of these opinions has been asked. Once again, as far as the Supreme Bar Council is concerned... I respect her opinion, but it's a corporate opinion. It's a corporate opinion. There's always been, there's and there's going to be corporate thinking. I don't make a charge of it either, it's just been like this for years. However, this is... Once again, I will be clear and clear: when making decisions, I encourage you to put your own thoughts on what the voters are telling us, but above all your own experience... These are only opinions that are not binding. Civil Service Council. Well, naturally, since it was to be deleted in the parliamentary proposal... I think it is naturally conditioned that you defend yourself and will criticize this issue. As for the suspension of a person... I've already done a lecture here once. Perhaps your senator wasn't there at the time. But if the senator wants it, you're welcome, I'll tell him again. The head of the unit who appoints a person to a senior management position shall have the right to be able to appeal such a person, I repeat: the appeal of such person In the event that this person does not give warranties... At least in this case, there will be a temporary arrest. And we respect that there is a presumption of innocence. But what, Mr. Senator, in a situation where you'd be the boss, you'd have this high-ranking officer, and the circumstances of the case would suggest that, for example. The case is about pedophilia? Would you hold a high-ranking officer like that? I'm sorry, this is a purely rhetorical question, not to the senator, because he respects the order of things here, and I know my role in this matter. This is an example that indicates that this flexibility has to be. These people agree to this, too. They go to this form of employment, not another form of employment. That they are appointed and dismissed. It's just like the Minister. It's true, isn't it? The Prime Minister calls him, and he can call him off at any time, he doesn't even have to give the reason for the appeal. And we accept it, we leave, and we thank each other beautifully, and we don't take offense to each other. So this should also apply to officials in this highest layer, which should meet the highest standards. And so much for answers. And as for the civil servants at the bottom of the civil service, the suspension rule remains, we do not repeal this principle as if we leave it. Well, if we were to introduce this principle to officials... I can already imagine the commotion that would have been here in this High House. But no, we respect and leave these solutions. Although I personally believe that when it comes to standards that should be in the civil service, it should be different. But that's what the legislator wanted, and I respect that. [[Thank you very much...]] [[Thank you. We're fighting less than the Sejm, I assure you, Minister.]] Mr. Senator, since yesterday, since the committee meeting, I have been very sympathetic to you. Although maybe I don't seem like a nice person to feel that way... It was said that this was a room of reflection, and since yesterday I sympatheticly want to say that we had really... that we were very different, but the discussion was at a very high level, even though it was 4:00 a.m. in the morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u132	We're happy to hear that, Minister. You ask Senator Jerzy Wcisła a question, and then you will be Senator Czesław Ryszka. [[Minister, I hope...]] [[Voices from the room: Microphone! Microphone!]] Your microphone's off, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u133	Oh, yeah, I'm sorry. Technology makes it harder for me to get in touch with the Minister. Minister, I hope this is the likeness you have just made, which is the legislator to the senator, this is a flattering opinion, given your frequent assurances that you are working so well with the Senate. And I am also talking about this because the question I would like to ask concerns the work of a legislator. During the committee meeting, the legislator presented a large number of doubts, and these are questions of high caliber, with regard to the bill. I would like to ask when we will receive the government's opinion on these doubts which you have presented to the legislator. I hope so. And I appeal to your words here that it is a pity that the rapporteur did not make it between 4:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. prepare a written report that the government of good change will also prepare such legal information... written information about the doubts raised by the legislator and that information about these doubts will be sent to us before voting on the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u134	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Senator Czesław Ryszka. Please allow questions to last no longer than one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. In recent times, Minister, such statements have been made very often that the Law and Justice, the Government, Members of Parliament are breaking the Constitution. The rapporteur, Senator Florek, also so dramatically concluded his speech or stressed those words in his report, saying that the law is breaking the constitution. Of course, he did not indicate which article of the Constitution is broken here. I would very much ask you to dispel my anxiety and to indicate, if any, which of the articles of the Constitution is being violated by an act of lower order, which is the bill being processed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u136	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I refer to Senator Wczyła's questions here. Maybe I'll start with the first question about your legislator. I got that impression, and it's irresistible... I don't recall. in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland so deeply entered the substantive matter There, legislative issues, the principles of legislative technology, i.e. all the issues to which legislative offices are obliged, have always been addressed. I find it quite risky to enter the merit and instruct Members or Senators that they can change their decision in substance. This is my assessment, I have the right to it, I repeat, we live in a free country. I had the impression that the legislator wanted to judge the case even for the Constitutional Tribunal itself. Maybe it's wrong, but that's the impression I got. This cannot be the case, because, I repeat, if everyone here a priori claims that the constitution is being violated and clearly states it, then why should the Constitutional Tribunal confirm it yet. If they've decided that the constitutions have been broken, I don't understand why we need to discuss them further. Well, it can't be that way, although doubt has the right to have everyone. I, too, as constitutional minister, had doubts and had the right to ask the President of the Constitutional Tribunal whether the composition in which the Constitutional Tribunal adjudicated was appropriate. Doubts can be given to anyone. And someone who judged my statement didn't read the letter, and didn't see that it was doubts, not all those other issues that I was accused of. Here is the issue of our precision in action, I always encourage it, and the precision of speaking. To tell you the truth, I was really amazed last night and I was, uh... If I were a senator of the Republic of Poland, then, in short, I simply would not wish for such suggestions, because we all have our own brains and we know why we were chosen, we know who trusted us, and, in short, what our place is in the ranks, whether we are an advisory and opinion body, or... As I say, the road is always free. I repeat the same to the judges: if they want to participate in political life, who will not. No problem, you can file a judge's office, run for the Senate elections in a one-mandate district, face up there and then use your experience in politics, for the service of the Republic of Poland. No problem. Mr. Senator, as to the issue of government position, I am also obliged here to present this position... It's in writing, it's written. I can even read them whole, if the senator wishes, but I think that it is so simple in its view that... We agree with these changes, we are absolutely positive about the changes that have been proposed, and we have also approved the amendment concerning the Civil Service Council, which is to restore a certain opinion-advisory structure. As far as the issue of speaking on tonight's committee meeting in the Senate is concerned, I would say that I do not see the possibility that the government should gather extraordinarily and respond to the issues that have been raised at the committee's meeting. Mr. Senator always has an option. Here's my humble hint, because I hope you have qualified services here, if you have doubts, to address the government. And please, I'm sure we'll respond fully to this interpellation. We have adopted the position of the government under the Act on the Council of Ministers and under the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and I do not see the need for us to re-state the position of the Government, because the shape of the law does not differ from that on which we have acted as a government, i.e. printing No 119, which was so assigned in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. This is the mechanism that I naturally encourage you to use. Here I do not see the possibility or even the need and possibility in the sense of the working mode of the Council of Ministers to... This mode is maintained in accordance with, I repeat, the rules of pragmatism in this area. [[Thank you very much, Minister. About taking...]] Oh, and Senator Ryszka, I'm sorry. [[Oh, yes, please.]] Senator Ryszka asked such a fundamental question, which, in my opinion, sounds good. Very often, in this rather hot political discussion or political discourse, there are tendencies to force a potential recipient to believe that the constitution is being violated, that democracy is being broken, that terrible things are happening so that there will be, I don't know, a coup or other issues in a moment. And it builds such a belief... This is, of course, political rhetoric. I don't see... If the government of the Republic of Poland, accepting its position, notes that the parliamentary project is breaking the constitution or that there are very serious doubts about the violation of the Constitution, then... Such issues are discussed in the position. Here, of course, about this parliamentary project we did not have such doubts and such conviction. All these allegations that have been made here, all these statements, even bordering with certainty, and even in some ways constituting, like the Constitutional Tribunal, that the constitution is broken, I fall into the category of acute political polemics. However, I think that such a controversy will no longer take place, because I have tried so extensively to explain the provisions of the new law so that you would not have any doubts anymore, because I think it was due to the fact that maybe some issues have not been fully... I do not want to make a plea that they have not been read, but maybe they have not been fully understood, but we all have a full right to do so. So this is absolutely strict rhetoric. political, calculated on a political, populist effect, but it does not prejudice in any way that the constitution, law or democracy has been brutally broken. In my opinion, on the contrary, these laws will serve young people, and hopefully they will.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Krystian Probie.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u139	Mrs Marshal, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have all heard here the statement by the Minister that one of the aims of the bill is to obtain our young generation, that this young generation should produce GDP in our country, and that is of all means glorious. I have a question for the Minister: is there a little bit of an older generation, for example, in your interest in recruiting workers for civil service work? People with gray hair like mine? If there were makeup like that, I'd be using 25+ cosmetics... Thank you very much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Minister of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: Thank you, Senator. I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u140	Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u141	The Minister urges me to express my views, and I would like to begin by expressing my opinion that the kind of certainty with which you judge judges of the Court, legal corporations, our legislators, even us, whether we have read something or not, is probably called a nerve. And now I'm going to the point. The Senate is particularly sensitive in respect of constitutional observance. We have committed ourselves to implementing the judgments of the Court. That is why we are so sensitive to any attention and we are grateful to the legislators if they signal constitutional doubts. This isn't a clearance violation. I'd like you to finally, instead of wandering around in the clouds and talking about the spirit, come back to earth and say a few words about how you deal with specific allegations of unconstitutionality, with the revocation of laws, as is appropriate for the lawyer that you are. [[Thank you very much...]] And then there's the second line. I'll finish with the question. Namely, you say this bill is supposed to give the young people a chance. However, the value of the civil service is that there is certainty of professional promotion. Well, if we say so, from outside the queue of this promotion, we're gonna pick the one that suits us, and we're gonna let it happen from a political key, so completely outside this queue, from outside the corps, we're gonna tear down the extremely important value of the civil service. Because those who... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] ...they've finished school, passed their exams... [[Question, please.]] I'm just finishing with a question... [[Voice from the Chamber: Is this a discussion? Is that a question?!]] [[Ask me a question.]] Even if they are young, how can they be sure that they will ever be promoted if the party nominees have an open path to promotion?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u142	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u143	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. It was nice, but it's over. Mr. Senator, I'm used to any impertinence from your politicians towards women, but I assure you I have very hard skin and I can withstand such impertinences as well. Well, Mr. Senator, I want to be clear and clear, and I also wrote on the Senate committee that I have deep respect for the Senate for doing what he did in his previous term of office... I spoke very often on this issue, for example. in the Polish Sejm in the Commission for State Control or in the Legislative Commission, it is recorded, it is easy to come to this. Well, I have always thought that when it comes to the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, it should be settled in our country who should have a legislative initiative to execute the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, and also to indicate the expressis verbis, who should have a legislative initiative in our country to carry out, for example, the de lege ferenda proposals which are led by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Because it's out-of-regulation, and it's really the custom today that some of these duties are being taken over by the Senate. [[It's not a custom, it's a rule book.]] Yes, it's the rules, but it's actually customary, because it's selective, Mr. Senator, to look after certain issues, but it's more about solving this issue in a systematic way, perhaps at the statutory level, that we should have such ambition. But it's all ahead of us. And here I express my respect, because many judgments have been executed in this way, and keeping deadlines thanks to the High House has led us to have no, I don't know, gaps in the law or anything else. We can discuss quality, but rather always the level and quality were very high in my opinion. So let's respect each other. These statements are, they are recorded, you can always reach them. However, I repeat this once again, and I will always repeat it from every speaker, whether it be the Sejm, the Senate, or it will be the Constitutional Tribunal I have acted before the Constitutional Tribunal very often as a representative of the Sejm at various kinds of hearings That we live in a free country and we are allowed to have opinions. It's not enough, after 1989, that we can finally have them without any particular concern about our health and the lives of our loved ones... Well, although recently articleting by members of the Civic Platform, I hope that there have already been criminal threats against members of the government, because yesterday on Twitter we were dealing with this, is now, as we can see, serious. I hope... [[Mrs. Pavlowicz.]] No, no. Yesterday, Mr. Senator... You may be busy and you haven't had the chance to see it, but everyone who's online has seen what we've been dealing with. And those threats are obvious. [[Mrs. Pavlowicz...]] [[Mr. Senator...]] I'm not going to give in to these threats. These are concrete threats of death, written by, I hope, a former member of the Civic Platform, and by the state-owned councillor. I'm not gonna give in to these threats, and I'm gonna... If I believe that certain rules relating to the performance of certain functions are being exceeded, I will simply say this, whether I am fired by your senator or not. Mr. Senator, about... [[Specifically.]] ... constitutional reservations... [[It's a specific record.]] ...that's what I'm saying again. I'm going to say very specific. That I personally with all these opinions about doubts, because these are not even accusations, constitutionally disagree. I consider, on the basis of the position of the government of the Republic of Poland... The government did not see the constitutional flaws of this project, and in the position of the government we do not see such flaws. So also with those that are indicated in various kinds of opinions, I can argue, but I think these are the arguments. Already at a pretty high level. I can't see those flaws that are quoted.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm asking you to do the job... [[But I asked two questions. Mrs. Marshal, I asked two questions, and I got one answer.]] [[Minister. Member of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: If the senator is not satisfied, please kindly tell me what other answer I have to give.]] Maybe the Minister in writing will give you that answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u145	I asked the Minister whether the opportunity that arises from this law to ignore the necessary path of professional promotion, in order to be promoted above, would not, in your opinion, be a terrible signal for young people who, by giving up their political career because it takes five years to be partyless, want to devote themselves to civil service.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u146	Mr. Senator, however, even though you've expelled me, I encourage you to read the Civil Service Act and the novel that we're investigating yesterday. Well, let me remind you again that art. The 78th Civil Service Act, which we don't change, doesn't say anything about a five-year internship... sorry, five-year non-membership of a political party. On the contrary, he says that a member of the Civil Service Corps does not have the right to form or participate in political parties. That's not enough, he's not allowed to publicly manifest political views. A member of the Civil Service Corps may not combine employment in the civil service with the Councillor's mandate. A member of the Civil Service Corps shall not be allowed to participate in a strike, a protest campaign interfering with the normal functioning of the office, etc. We don't change this article. Mr. Senator may have been polite to mistake this for another article we refer to regarding the appointment of a head of civil service. There we abolish the requirement to join a political party for a period of five years. I've already done this here, perhaps your senator wasn't there for a while... We are also guided by the fact that, in this situation, the head of the civil service, and in a moment's time the head of the public service... If we had left this 5-year period, it would be discriminatory to him, because, for example, there is no such requirement with regard to the Ombudsman, there is no such requirement with regard to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, there is no such requirement with regard to other heads of various kinds of services. This five-year period... We point out that, at the date of taking up such a position, he is not a member of a political party. So it's kind of a rule that's a bit cleaner than the law on other offices, other posts that are even higher than the head of civil service. And that's a matter I'm in a hurry to explain. We're gonna do this bill. I'm gonna say it again. We do not forbid, we do not take away the possibility of promotion. This promotion in the civil service... 120 000 people in the CID continue to be entitled to various promotions in the framework of service pragmatism. I'm not going to say it again, Mr. Senator, that in the days of the Law and Justice Government, appointed officials, which means the best promotion... [[Senator Mieczysław Augustyn talks on mobile phone]] If the senator would be kind... Because then there'll be doubts again, and I wouldn't want the senator to have any doubts. Well, Mr. Senator, in our day, this possibility of promotion had about 1 000 500 officials each year, and in the light of the governments that have passed away, only 200 people per year. I repeat, only 200 people a year. And we leave this possibility of promotion as far as possible. We do not delete civil servants, we do not say that members of the civil service corps cannot occupy these posts. To confirm this, I gave you my own example. Four people in the civil service corps today are replacing the CEOs, because they're just great. And once again, this is only due to the provisions of the law that need to be explored. Then we won't have that misconception you may have taken on the senator. Again, but with a smile, Mr. Senator, because I'm not making this a charge: it's very difficult matter. I absolutely agree with that. But practice shows that these regulations are needed as much as possible. To answer the senator who talked about gray hair, I'll say yes. Mr. Senator, don't change that. This is absolutely nice. Here I stressed the possibility of helping to implement reforms of the state to young people, opportunities to build their careers in Poland. That's what I put the emphasis on. But that does not mean that this is the only group that will participate in this great work of state reform. We will also, and perhaps above all, benefit from people who are very experienced and with many years of experience. This middle-class civilian corps, which is after a number of training courses, schools... I have great respect for this school. This shows that this body absolutely serves all tasks in a truly undistorted way. Only this mixing, I repeat once again, within the same area causes that this perimeter, like any corporation, is simply closed and we cannot draw from the very good resources that we have in our country and which escape us each year with thousands. So no, no, no, we're absolutely not quitting. Youth and experience guarantees seriousness, guarantees the success of the state, the success of reforms and the success of good changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u147	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Marek Rocki. You're welcome, Senator. [[Thank you, I withdraw the question.]] You're pulling out. Any of you senators want to ask the Minister another question? I don't see any volunteers. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u148	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Since this is a special time, I wish all of you Senators a happy New Year. May we argue so beautifully next year too, because this will bring us to a higher level of civilization. I think the difference of opinion is needed, and if it's still a cultural dispute, it's gonna be okay. Thank you very much. Happy New Year. [[Applause]] [[New Year's Eve in the Senate...]] [[You too, Minister.]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Nice to meet you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u149	We, too, wish you a happy New Year and thank you for the comprehensive substantive answer to all your questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, I open the discussion. I would like to inform you that there are four senators in this discussion. Senator Bogdan Klich will take the floor in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u150	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept, Madam Minister, also from us, from our club the warm wishes of the New Year's, with the hope that our comments and doubts, as well as reservations to the submission on which we are discussing, will be taken into account. In fact, it will be the best test for whether these wishes on your part were sincere. [[Minister. Member of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: Thank you.]] [[What are you suggesting?]] Well, we have fundamental doubts about this law, we have reservations about its effects. We are aware that this is a return to the old idea which Law and Justice reported in 2005-2007, to the creation of a state staff resource, something that undermines the principles of our country for many, many years, principles that have been the achievement of various Polish governments, whether they were centroright or left-wing. They also involved the introduction into the Polish legal system of rules that have been in force in the European Union for years. The subject of Poland's commitment during the negotiations on the accession treaty was that we would introduce an apolitical civil service. We prided ourselves on the fact that it was an apolitical service, and we were proud of the fact that it was service over division. For many of us who held ministerial functions, this was of course a problem, because it would be easier and more enjoyable to have a director of the department, his deputy or the CEO of someone who was loyal and devoted, not someone who was just faithful to the principles of civil service. But it was necessary to accept these solutions, because they not only stabilized Polish politics, but provided for it, and I stress it with all my power. And they still provide institutional memory. Governments change, the state stays. This staff that somebody here called wrongly caste, this civil service staff guarantees institutional memory and is in fact the necessary institutional facilities for any changing government. The Minister presented here, I would say, such a sentimental, holiday-time romantic vision in which it will actually succeed through deregulation to pave the way for promotion mechanisms for those who are competent and who have not gone through the whole training and admission system to be civil servants. We fear that reality will dramatically verify these plans and that the intentions of the present government are different. Plus, he's already checking it out. Just take a look at the director's positions at the Ministry of National Defence. The objective of real submission is therefore to create legal bases for the exchange and cast of all executive positions, i.e. higher, in the civil service and in the foreign service, because this is a thread that we forget By people who are strictly subject to the Law and Justice. That's how we read the intentions of this presentation. In addition, the aim is to eliminate the possibility of supervision and control over the human resources policy implemented in the government administration. The purpose of these tasks is, in our view, primarily the right to terminate within 30 days the employment relationship with all those employed in higher civil service and foreign service. Together, it is about 2 000 posts. We were talking about 1,600 jobs that are part of the civil service. It is worth remembering that about 400 posts from the diplomatic corps should be added to this, especially when it comes to Polish diplomacy. This may expose Polish diplomacy to inefficiencies or mistakes made as a result, as I said, of institutional memory disorders. Resigning the obligation to take up higher positions in the civil service and in the foreign service and allowing the employment opportunities of political parties who renounce membership, but when appointed, is the second dangerous consequence of this solution. Those employed in higher positions will not have to have any experience, no traineeships, nor will they have to undergo a preparatory service. This is what we need to be aware of in this House when we vote on the final decisions as to whether we want to accept this submission or not. When I referred the question to the rapporteur, I wondered whether the committees were aware of the violation of the Constitution in this law. Well, we are convinced as a club that this law violates two constitutional provisions in two places. It's an art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1 of the Constitution, which I will remind you of, says: "In order to ensure the professional, fair, impartial and politically neutral performance of the tasks of the State, the civil service corps operates in government offices. Higher positions remain within the civil service corps. It's also about art. 60 Constitution, which says: Polish citizens who exercise full public rights have the right to access public service on equal terms. Let me stress: on the same principles. The rules introduced eliminate the openness of recruitment to the civil service corps and also limit the motivation of civil servants, allowing senior posts to be filled by persons outside the civil service corps. Draft implementing acts are not included in the Act, that is to say it is not. Thus, there are no acts that talk about remuneration tariffs and periodic evaluations. The appointment of the Civil Service Council shall be waived and, in particular, as a consequence, first, the assessment of changes in civil service law, second, the observation and supervision of selection procedures; third, the supervision of the functioning of the entire civil service and the observance of the constitutional obligations of the executive bodies of the State; and fourthly, the evaluation of the incentive and ethical systems in force in the civil service. So far, the Civil Service Council has emphasized this with the utmost force, including Senator Rocki. In addition to the political divisions, she was able to assess the condition of the Polish civil service in substance, even though it included representatives of various, but also of all Seym clubs, in proportion to their size. The Civil Service Council has so far carried out its tasks, despite the party key to its appointment. In addition, failure to carry out a public consultation on a draft law is our highest concern. This is what I was talking about at the very beginning of the meeting, recognising that without such a public consultation and without opinions, expertise and evaluations, we should not proceed with such a fundamental change in the Polish legal system. We believe that by disregarding the obligation to consult the Civil Service Council on the subject of the amendment, the provision of the Article has been infringed. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Civil Service Act. We also believe that, by failing to reach an opinion, the legal obligation, which guarantees the representation of civil servants, including both trade unions, has not been complied with. In our deep conviction, the law, as I said twice, violates the Constitution. The way it is dealt with taunts the principles of good legislation and justification does not describe the effects of regulation, including costs... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]] [[Time's up...]] ...which will have to bear the state budget. [[Mr. Senator, it's time.]] And the last sentence of the conclusion. Unfortunately, in place of the civil service, the PiS wants to recreate the Peerelow nomenclature. Such principles were governed by the Peerelow nomenclature until the introduction of civil service in independent and democratic Poland. Thank you very much. [[...close...]] [[He can't control himself. We need a good psychiatrist.]] [[Voice from the room: Who would be good?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u151	Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I don't see... I'll only deal with constitutional problems. I'm not a professor, I'm a doctor, but in the field of constitutional law, and it's my duty to make you aware once again that a violation of the constitution... the allegations that are being formulated, I'm about to say, these aren't, uh, any opinions that don't matter. Of course... There was such a rhetorical question here, Minister: why further discussion when the opinions refer to the violation of the Constitution, why the Constitutional Tribunal? Ladies and gentlemen, the difference is in effect. The decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be final and binding. Because they're final. And only the Court has such powers. And the authorities have the right to have doubts or to make categoric conclusions that they believe the constitution has been violated. And in situations like this... Both the Attorney General I'm about to quote the short exceptions. As well as the Supreme Bar Council, the National Council of Legal Counsels or the Foundation of Batory are clearly talking about it. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't say... The Minister's contribution to all this is that this is a lawyer corporation, representing the company I've written down a corporate interest. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm also a lawyer, although I haven't done this profession in five years. In the above-mentioned, very extensive, over-forty-point opinion that entered the Sejm... She's got 20 pages if I want to introduce you... Of course, I won't bother you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no point there, and there are over 40 of them, in respect of which we could talk about some corporate interest. The lawyer is called to defend rights, including citizens' rights, and in such a capacity the lawyer acts. She's not in her own interest, I'd say that paradoxically you can even say "Against your interests in the sense that the effect of seeking a higher level, the stability of the civil service corps, will be less cases, because the level of case law... And yet, ladies and gentlemen, this is what the Supreme Council of Attorneys calls attention to. This limitation of the guarantee is tantamount to the threat of civil liberties, individual rights in connection with the operation of the administration. Government authorities decide, for example. on citizens' tax obligations, impose administrative penalties or regulate the way they conduct their business. The dismantling of apolitical civil service and the weakening of the right to good administration can, in these circumstances, drastically undermine the level of security of citizens' rights in relations with the administration. That's what the Attorney General says. Like I said, here it's just the citizen's business, not the business... These aren't corporations, these are professional governments, ladies and gentlemen, these are professional governments, contractualally or briefly called corporations, which according to the constitution... And the constitution, we need to realise that. It is a referendum, and as long as it is binding, and the sovereign has not given you, I speak to the members of Law and Justice, the right to change this constitution, whether you like it or not, you must apply it. The Constitutional Tribunal is the body to apply the Constitution and will apply the Constitution, and no one else will replace it. Ladies and gentlemen, why are we so often and categorically referring to the judgments of the Constitutional Court, saying that the provision is contrary to the Constitution? From this stand, finishing with the presentation of his report, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Jerzy Stępień, who is not from the Platform, we all know... [[Where'd you get it ……]] What do you mean, where? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[The Freedom Union.]] There wasn't a Platform at the time. He was appointed President of the Constitutional Tribunal by Lech Kaczyński. This is where he spoke. And thanked me personally, I have great satisfaction in my heart And he said, "Thank you for the theory that the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are predictable thanks to a certain legal line." It is good that certain or majority, many judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal are predictable judgments. Therefore, it is clear that, as the Court has said in all matters, there is a violation of the Constitution if there is no vacathio legis, and there is no discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, short quotes to confirm my arguments. Of course, as my previous speaker just said, we're dealing with a violation... [[Ten minutes.]] ...the rules of the Article. 153 and Article 153 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and This is mentioned by the Attorney General: when assessing the project submitted, it must be stated that regulated matter is subject to constitutional regulation. [[Can you read it all?]] I understand that every government would like to have its own trusted people, and there is no discussion about it. But there are voivodeships. And the civil service corps, which performs the tasks of the state in government offices, in accordance with the constitution, is to be reliable, highly qualified, impartial and politically neutral. And the Attorney General makes it clear that you cannot oppose the political apparatus and the civil service corps, both of which are complementary. However, it is essential to establish procedural mechanisms for the apoliticality of the civil service. This feature is a constitutional value and the elimination of statutory provisions aimed at countering the direct influence of the political apparatus on civil service is clearly contrary to this fundamental dominant of the body. Contrast with the article. 60 are also draft transitional standards for the expiry of employment relationships. Therefore, the Attorney General, whose opinions you often rely on, and who is based on Professor Banaszak's opinion, whom Mr Ziobro recently quoted as the only one who, well, you can say, was positive, although of course not about the Court Act, but earlier... [[Time's up, Senator.]] [[Time's up, Senator.]] It's me, then. [[There's an opinion of the Batory Foundation.]] Yes, there's the opinion of the Batory Foundation, the council of local governments, and everyone's unambiguously claiming that the constitution has been violated. Hence our motion to reject this bill. We will not allow a manifest violation of the Constitution. [[Applause]] [[It was Ceaușescu waving his hand like that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u153	Please take the floor of Senator Rocky. [[And Comrade Wieslaw.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Frequent amendments to the Civil Service Act and a thorny road led to its adoption in the first half of the 1990s They are de facto a reflection of several phenomena. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] By the way, it is worth noting here that in the summer of next year we would celebrate the 20th anniversary of this law, which, although amended, worked for 20 years. What are these phenomena? Firstly, there are different models of pragmatic laws for public administration, for public administration. Discussions are ongoing in this area and I think they are useful because there are different models, so different solutions can give rise to different reflections. The second phenomenon is that other government teams did not like the system in which officials, and in particular their superiors, i.e. department directors, are not, in quotes, our people, which caused cases of pathology. From the middle of the first decade of this century, I remember such cases that there were many people who were entrusted with responsibilities because they were not from the governing crew. And Minister Kempa said to the pain sincerely: the brakes must be removed. Exactly, we need to remove those rules that hamper the ability to delegate responsibilities by vocation. Today's proposals go in this direction... At this point, I refer to a section of the statement of reasons: the practice of applying the Civil Service Act indicates often prolonged and inefficient recruitment procedures, which led to delays in filling vacant posts. By the way, this statement of reasons contradicts the report by the Head of Civil Service, which indicated that 70% recruitments were completed within 2 months and 14% less than 4 months, but more than 2 months, which means that within 4 months almost 90% of calls were successful. How's that supposed to be? A person employed in a higher position in the civil service does not need to be a civil servant. As Minister Kempa rightly put it, in her article. The 70th Act states that a civil servant cannot participate in a political party, which means that a person employed in a higher position will be able to be the founder of the party, will be able to be a member of the party, and only at the time of appointment will he have to resign. So before that, this person will be as political as possible. The requirements for higher posts have been amended. In the original draft, these requirements were reduced to those currently in force, and after yesterday's meeting of the Sejm Committee, all experience requirements were removed. As can be read in one of the opinions received by the Sejm, the lack of open and competitive recruitment means only faster filling of posts, but it certainly does not serve to ensure its high quality. And I think that's the right view. I know the reasons for this bill. They sound logical, but they are deeply contrary to the idea of civil service. Here I will quote the constitution: "In order to ensure the professional, reliable, impartial and politically neutral performance of the tasks of the state... These are the objectives of the civil service. In my opinion, pathological cases do not justify changes going as far as those proposed. In response to these pathologies, one might say: we will apply and respect the law fairly. But instead, the project eliminates requirements. The powers are also being changed... in some way the Civil Service Council is being removed. It shall retain its power to express its opinion on the same matters, disregarding the opinion of the appointment of a Head of Civil Service. In addition, the powers to apply for re-certification in the event of irregularities and to observe procedures for the recruitment of higher posts have been omitted from the Act. This means that such proceedings will not be observed and evaluated, although I think this has worked well in civil service activities and gave the Prime Minister good tools. The powers to observe and apply for recruitment and selection procedures have been reduced. Representatives of parliamentary clubs were eliminated from the Civil Service Council, as Minister Kempa called depoliticism. From my point of view, it was parliamentary oversight of the civilian service. The interesting thing for me is that so far the Council has elected a Vice-President, and now the Prime Minister has to do so, which would mean that the Prime Minister has no confidence in the elected members of the Council. The proposals put forward by the PiS in this regard in a certain way permanently, i.e. in 2006 and now, show that the State's responsibilities are being confused with government policy. Because the State's tasks are carried out, for example, by the Forest Seed Office. What does this have to do with government policies and responsibilities? It's hard for me to answer that. I hope, too, that Minister Kempa, to finish her statement on the Head of Civil Service, has been overspoken. And if she didn't misspoke, that would mean that there are further changes in the Civil Service Act. Because the minister told me about the head of civil service, and I quote, in a moment, the head of public service... There is no such term, provision in the present law, in the amendment. As a result, perhaps another amendment is being prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u155	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski. [[Okay, okay, okay, okay, ……]] Would the senator like a break? [[Mr. Marshal, High Izbo... thank you for sensing my intentions. And I'm actually asking for a change in the speech, also because I don't want to get involved in this climate of rapidity.]] So please take the floor of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened with interest to Minister Kempy and I almost believed what she said. But we're looking at another bill after the Constitutional Court Act. Now, civilian service, we're about to discuss the media... And if we were just working on this bill, even in those assurances that it would be better for me to believe, but I look at the whole thing and judge direction and intent, not verbal declarations. So those beautiful words of yours, the Minister we heard here, didn't calm me down. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill, it is said that according to the article. 153 of the Constitution to ensure the professional, fair, impartial and politically neutral performance of the tasks of the State, the civil service corps operates in government offices. According to the bill, et cetera. members of the civil service corps are persons employed under employment contract, employees, etc. And just after this introduction, in the next paragraph we read: given the importance and scope of the tasks carried out in higher positions in the civil service, it is proposed that employment in these highest positions should be less formalised. What does that mean? That's pretty much what we know. That's what we know. Less formalized. So what's this all about? Is this about letting young people go? Well, ladies and gentlemen, don't think we're naive and naive. It's about letting your people in, and he's made it very clear... [[All the children are ours.]] Well, he was very clear about it yesterday, for example. Mr Kuzmiuk, that these people are to be identified with the political line of the PiS. This is confirmed by the change of concept. Instead of the tasks of the State pursuant to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1, we are talking about tasks related to the implementation of government policy. That's the line. Not the State's job. It's supposed to be government service, and like government service, it's about political preferences. That's what this is all about. The point is for PiS to be free to fill these highest positions with his people... [[Is that bad or good?]] ...and that's why the bill is being amended: to eliminate this limitation that everyone else had. Of course, these restrictions were not perfect, but this is not the improvement of the Civil Service Act. This is civil service destruction. This is the end. civil service. After that bill, she won't get up. And that's the problem you're gonna leave behind for years, just like the case of six-year-olds. It's gonna stay for years. Minister Kempa also said something that bothered me, namely that it was to be later. I understand that later an evaluation of the administration is carried out. What does that mean? It just means verification of this administration. So the next step is to verify... Maybe it will be called a nice administration audit, or maybe otherwise, maybe bringing about normality. Dear Senators, if the Senate majority, as well as the Seym PIS, thinks that the standards he wants to introduce are standards that will improve the functioning of the administration... I'm sure you're wrong. And that's why we don't agree to this kind of bill. I'm not talking about the mode, the way this bill is being processed, and so on, because other people were talking about it. I will vote against this bill. We don't have any other way to... I do not think that any amendments are accepted, so there is no way to agree on this. That's why I'm going to vote against. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u157	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal Borusewicz made a bold and rational decision, but there are people like me who can't afford such boldness because they have a lot of optimism. This optimism drove us so that we crossed mountains and today we are here, arguing with each other. I don't think it's enough just to argue... Listening to each other and realizing each other's arguments. And that's why I'm going to make amendments in the spirit of beliefs that some members of the PiS Senators or non-partisans share, but at the side of the PiS. This bill, of course, is important. Everyone starts with such words, speaking about the bill which he is talking about, but this law is really important, because it is the Human Resources Act, the Human Resources Act of the Republic of Poland, which will determine the fate, the employment of 130 thousand employees, officials, people appointed to posts. It's important because it's not just hiring temporary workers... I'm not saying it's a work contract or a job. These officials will be the face of the Polish state and will do business. many organisations, a large number of citizens. And that's why it's so important what the quality of these officials will be. It is important that this conviction reaches the audience, the viewers of this debate. There's no denying that our failure, all of us, the whole political class, is that in society, there's still a feeling that these officials, these bureaucrats, They make at least two coffees each morning, or later they do some business and, of course, eat our taxes. I take it very badly, I even feel touched... 26 years after the construction of the free state we are talking about ourselves, about our daughters, about our sons, our aunts, our uncles, our brothers we are talking about per And I regret that the new government, which announced changes, did not go in this direction to disappoint today's evil image of the office or the official. Nor can I fully agree with this law, with the fact that it was adopted in extraordinary mode, in ad hoc mode, ugly, which the Minister is storming at. From the end of the day, I indicate a two-week implementation period. As you say from the PiS. The reform. Because it's not just a change of one or two paragraphs, it's supposed to be a reform. This ad hoc procedure is also based on the fact that statements to those people who have entrusted their careers to the Third Republic will be handed over within a few days within a month. Today, this is no longer the way to treat seasonal workers, especially those who are the face of the Third Republic. It doesn't matter how Senator Dobrzyński suggests here that they were connected to a coalition or a party. The party, the coalition, like the PiS, is also an expression of the Third Republic, isn't it? So are they to be punished for being in favour of the pluralistic system and choosing the recipient who served them the most? Would that be the right thing to do... Like these officials, you don't even treat employees at the company. Extraordinaryness is also about this sudden mode, which has already been widely discussed here, and the rapporteur spoke about this mode. And what's important? I have often advocated a rapid, actually optimal, speed of investigation. But if this law is addressed not to us, not to the High House, but to those whom the Minister spoke of here, and who are standing by the dishwashers at the moment, what chance do they have of getting to know the advantages and disadvantages of this law when it is hidden at night in the nooks of the Senate and is subject to timeless verification, i.e. timeless verification? If so, the charges... I believe that this extraordinary law is being considered and contains occasional solutions that it was created for a given political orientation. In particular, it stands out a kind of modern opricinian. As you know, Peter I, unable to break... [[Ivan the Terrible.]] Ivan the Terrible, yes, I'm sorry. Thank you, Senator. ...powers of buoyars and magnates, created an extraordinaire institution then 'Cause there wasn't a constitution back then. Extracorporeal, you can say, non-feudal, thanks to which he broke the law. He broke the law not only to rob property, but also to kill murder. Of course, I don't want to say that this bill goes that far, but certainly... Why do you think it's prickly? Because the primordial got privileges, she didn't get the right to act, to fulfill her ambitions, but she did the interests of the emperor. She did it for a bribe. And in this bill are entered for officers, for senior officers. This group is created on a special basis, caste Special privileges. First of all, they're said to be That's what the Minister said. Trusted officers, which means that there is a division between those trusted and those who may have built their trust for years. It's worth noting how disconcerting this office can be. Because there's someone closer to that good even the minister or the voivodeship and the one who doesn't deserve that trust, and he's out there somewhere in the second league. Come on, of course, the Minister didn't answer... That's why I'm bringing it up again and I recommend your attention. It is said here that these are the ambitious people who work on the dishwasher, with three doctoral degrees and, I think, an internship in the dishwasher job. It is written explicitly that they are to have managerial powers, but the traineeship is deleted, the education is deleted. I'm asking you where these people are supposed to carry out these managerial powers, since they've never worked in any institutions or institutions, and they've never guided them. Next, a bribe is, in my opinion, the introduction of an unregulated, as the club president said, functional supplement. Clearly, it's supposed to be power. It's not just a higher staff, it's supposed to be power, because that means a leading function, and that's what a supplement is for. Come on, let's assume that these people working on dishwashers will come to Poland, will enjoy trust, will take up work. But it's a new job, it's not a washing job anymore, it's a management job, it's a responsible job, it's making difficult decisions. Turns out they're exempt from the obligation to study, a kind of internship. This is a privilege because others have to work for years, they have to complement their previous master's knowledge. They will be exempt from it, etc. [[Time's up, Senator.]] It could therefore be argued that this law is segregative in nature. So he does not meet the conditions, as you said, Marshal Borusewicz, the state service. Last sentence, Mr. Marshal. Thank you for your patience. Let me sum up: I say this is the continuation of last week's assassination of the Court. We're all drivers... That reminds me of last week when the traffic laws were suspended. And this bill removes a policeman who was supposed to keep order in the civil service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u159	Please take the floor of Senator Mr. Mr. Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u160	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! There have been so many different demagogical statements and accusations about this law and justice here, that I will refer very briefly to it. I probably won't even use all my time. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we respect the officials. It is not true that the adoption of this law destroys or dismantles civil service. There are about 120 thousand people in the civil service in Poland. We're just talking about executive positions, i.e. CEOs, department directors, their deputies and various other bosses. The Minister has made it very clear that this concerns around 1 000 600 people. One thousand 600 people to 120 thousand is about 1% with a piece, less than 1.5%. It is important to tell people very clearly today that more than 98% Officials who work in the civil service shall in no way be affected by this law. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, the point is to remove some kind of fiction. Anyone who's the boss has the right to choose co-workers. There were, well, different kinds of methods to choose their own or to circumvent this law, and the Minister spoke very strongly about it: or they were, so to speak, competitions placed under someone, we heard about it even in the recordings of Mr. President NIK... We remember the perturbations and the consequences of not choosing the President of the Social Insurance Institution in the competition. The Government of Law and Justice finds that, in fact, if one of the members of the Management Board of the Social Security Office goes on leave or leave, it will not be possible to take decisions in this institution, which pays pensions to several million Poles. We know all these famous duties or replacements, as the Minister said. We want to introduce such a principle that the head who comes to the office has the right to choose, so to speak, people to whom he trusts, of course people who are qualified, because it is difficult for the voivode or the minister to appoint as directors of the departments of people who will not serve him with knowledge, competence and qualifications. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I will address these thousands of civil servants. Really, over 98% that law does not apply to them. As for those who will come and be appointed, I'll say it has both the pluses and the minuses. They're more likely to enter this service, but when the boss changes, there'll be a consequence that they'll have, so to speak, less protection. One more thing, and I'll conclude. Often, ladies and gentlemen, you rely on the violation of the Constitution. Senator Zientarski is not here. You are still referring to the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to say that in Polish law there is a presumption of constitutionality of laws, and it cannot be alleged today that this law, which will be passed, if it is the will of the High House, is unconstitutional. Yes? What you're quoting are all kinds of opinions that aren't binding, and you can... Every lawyer says it's just his opinion, it's not a dogma. Please also note that the government majority, for which there must be at least 230 Members, at least 50 senators and the President's signature... There are millions of people behind this. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, the constitution was also chosen by the people in a referendum in which, remember, here Senator Zientarski was also mistaken. The turnout was 40%. , and 53% voted in favour of this constitution. So you could... Today we're accused of only 15% of the PiS. society. Well, then I'm going to say that there's not much more than 20% behind this constitution. So let's not make stuff like that here anymore. If the President signs this bill... After all, a few million people voted for this president. As long as no one in this bill... it's significant until the Constitutional Tribunal undermines this bill, we assume that it's in accordance with the Constitution. The Law and Justice Club therefore requests that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u161	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I just, surprised by the hypocrisy, would like to read a few sentences from the Journal of the Legal Newspaper, which concern the period of exercise of authority by the state. And so: At offices bend the rules. The clerk may be a member of the clerk's office. Even for a few years. At central offices, recordmakers perform their duties for up to a few years. It's an abuse of law, but there are no sanctions for avoiding recruitment procedures. For example, in the Ministry of National Defence, a competition for the position of Director General has not been held for three months. At the end of the article, various examples are mentioned. And so we read that a person has been appointed to the post for 19 months... that a few years have become a p.o. by the General Director of National Roads and Motorways. Isn't that, ladies and gentlemen, the height of hypocrisy? We want to end the appointment to perform the duties and civilise the law. We want to bring this right back, not, as you say, the right to break. By the way, although I don't see the senator... I was so classically muddy during the debate, called a liar and not apologized. I think that the debate in the Senate should, however, have some level of culture, even though we are a ruling party and you are an opposition. I would ask that the level of debate be correct, as you all say, at the Senate level. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u163	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka and Senator Dowhan have made their speeches in the minutes. You have submitted proposals of a legislative nature to Senator Rulewski. Were there any other conclusions? No. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Minister. Member of the Council of Ministers Beata Kempa: I think everything has already been said.]] Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. The text of the Act is contained in print No 66 and the committee's report in print No 66 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media... [[Formal conclusion, if you don't mind.]] Let me finish. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present a report to the committee. I'm listening, Mr. Senator. [[I'm gonna break again and he's gonna want to...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u164	I'm not usually asking for a break. I'm asking for something else. The same will be true in this case. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to make a formal request for the adjournment of this point until the next Senate meeting. We are completely deprived of an opinion on this matter. We are deprived of any expertise. The only opinion we have and the committee had yesterday is the opinion of our Legislative Office. There is no place in the head, so, in the head it is impossible for us to consider a key project that causes a change in the system of public media in Poland, which makes the National Council of Radio and Television de facto a trap, cease to perform its functions... [[That's too much.]] The Minister of the Treasury is becoming the chief media specialist, and the Minister of the Treasury will decide... [[You're welcome, Senator...]] I'm not done. Here's the treasure minister who will decide who qualifies and who doesn't qualify for public media management. And finally, for the first time in over 20 years, public media will become government media. I would like to ask that the discussion be postponed until the necessary consultations have been held and the opinion has been obtained from important experts, and we have many in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u165	Thank you very much. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u166	Objection. Unlike your senator, I attended yesterday's joint committee meeting. At this meeting was the opinion of the National Radio and Television Council, and there was also the opinion, formulated in writing, of our Legislative Office. There was an expert present Professor Kowalski, a media specialist. Everyone could have spoken at this committee meeting and there's no reason to do political hysteria on New Year's Eve. So I object. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What is this? There may be a delay in discussing this point or removing it from order.]] It's already been voted out. There's already been a vote on this proposal. [[Voice of the Chamber: In the vote of this motion...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u167	Mr. Senator... [[Corrigendum.]] Please? [[I have to correct.]] But in what mode? [[Voice from the room: The conclusions were...]] [[In corrigendum mode.]] I'd like a brief corrigendum, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u168	We're gonna-- we're Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the opinions that actually appeared at the committee's request, the expert was at the committee's request, while the senators did not receive these opinions, i.e. all the senators did not receive these opinions. That's the truth. [[Okay, vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u169	I ask Senator Klich to clarify the proposal, because this is not a formal proposal that I could put to the vote. [[There's no explanation.]] Mr. Senator, please clarify the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u170	The point is to make it very precise. Based on the article. 48 (1) (a) I propose that this item be removed from the current agenda and transferred to the next Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u171	There is a request from Senator Klich, a formal request to remove this item from the agenda. [[And there's an objection.]] There's an objection. I'm putting Senator Klich's motion to the vote. The vote is now open. Who among you is in favour of Senator Klich's request to delete this item from the agenda? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 73 senators voted in favour, 19 senators voted in favour, 54 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] We're staying on the agenda. I would like to ask Senator Jackowski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present to the High House a report on the meeting of the committee which took place today. First of all, I would like to say that during the committee's deliberations on the allegations of some senators, my motion for an article was put to the vote. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 2... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] ...the House's rules that, in special cases, with the agreement of the committee, the procedure may take place. This proposal has been formally voted on. The Commission has been sitting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm saying this so there's no doubt about this case. High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television in the original version was included in print No 158 of the Sejm. This is a parliamentary project submitted by a group of Members. During our deliberations, there was a representative of the applicants, Barbara Bubula. There was also a representative of the Ministry of the Treasury as well as the Deputy Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Krzysztof Czabański. There were also present experts, representatives of the National Radio and Television Council and numerous media representatives. High Izbo, as the applicant's representative said, is the first stage of the reform of Polish public media aimed at establishing a system of national media. Its pillars will be institutions which are not public limited liability companies, to which stable sources of funding will be provided. The creation of a new system for organising and financing national media requires several months of intensive work and will be the next stage of the reform. In turn, the proposed law focuses on changing the way supervisory boards and boards of existing public broadcasting companies are created and reducing the number of supervisory boards to 3 people. This involves eliminating the participation of the National Board of Radio and Television, as the regulator of the electronic media market, in the creation of boards and supervisory boards operating on this market of companies of the State Treasury. Until the introduction of a new organisation of national media, this should be the domain of the Minister responsible for the State Treasury, who is responsible to the Sejm. According to the Constitution, the National Council of Radiophony and Television, quote: "It stands for freedom of speech, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television." It's an art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the These tasks apply equally to public and private media, and the Constitution does not provide for any specific powers of the National Council towards public media. On the other hand, it provides for the National Radio and Television Council to issue normative and individual acts addressed to entities not subject to its organisation. It's in the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the According to the Constitution, the National Council is therefore a government-independent regulatory body that exercises public authority over non-controlled broadcasters. On the other hand, the revised Act of 29 December 1992 on radio and television also includes the powers of the National Council to report to the public media, which are specific to corporate powers and ownership supervision. On the one hand, the National Radio and Television Council is a regulatory body for all market participants and, as such, should be impartial and operate transparently. On the other hand, The existing rules give the National Council broad competence in the domain of public broadcasting units operating in the form of single-member public limited liability companies of the State Treasury, even though these companies are strong and significant participants in audiovisual services. According to the existing legislation, which needs to be amended, the National Radio and Television Council decides among others. on the composition of the State Treasury companies and on the content of the statutes of these companies. From the point of view of the independence, impartiality and transparency of the regulatory authority as required by recital 94 and Article. 30, such a regulation raises far-reaching reservations. Its constitutional task to uphold freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television The National Council may exercise in an impartial and transparent manner only I would like to stress: only as a regulatory body. For these reasons, it is necessary to amend certain provisions of Chapter 4 of the Radio and Television Act of 29 December 1992. In terms of ownership supervision and corporate rights, the proposed changes bring the companies of the State Treasury, which are public broadcasting units, closer to the standard for other companies controlled by the State Treasury. In view of the change in the rules governing the size and manner of creation of bodies, boards and supervisory boards of companies of the State Treasury, radiophony and television, it is justified to put out the mandates of the existing members of those bodies. For the authorities of the 2 largest companies with national coverage, i.e. Polish Radio Spółka Akcyjna i Telewizja Polski Spółka Akcyjna, will become by virtue of the law itself from the date of entry into force of the proposed law. In the case of 17 regional radio companies, this will take place gradually as their bodies are amended. The proposed changes will contribute not only to rationalising and reducing the management costs of public broadcasting companies but also to restoring the professional and ethical standards required by the public service mission set out in Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 revised act on radio and television. I quote: Public radiophony and television carry out a public mission, offering, on the basis of the principles set out in the Act, the whole society and its parts, diverse programmes and other services in the field of information, publicity, culture, entertainment, education and sport, characterised by pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence and innovation, high quality and integrity of the transmission. The project will have a positive social and economic impact, which will be linked to the adoption of this regulation. The legal effect of this regulation will be to change the way supervisory boards and boards of existing public broadcasting companies are created. According to the applicants, the proposed solutions do not cost the state budget and the budgets of local government units. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is compatible with European Union law. High Izbo! The committees had a broad discussion yesterday. A representative of the Legislative Bureau presented an opinion in which he raised four comments. Firstly, in the opinion of the legislator, the opinion of the Act in question interferes with the ongoing civil law relationship. 3 (1) (a) The law may, according to the legislator, raise doubts as to its compatibility with the Article. 2 the principle of protection of acquired rights and the protection of interests in progress. As long as, in principle, the legislator can shape civil law relations for the future and, for example, prohibit certain practices existing on the market, it is more difficult, according to the author of the opinion, to justify such action in relation to existing legal relations. The second issue raised by the Legislative Bureau. Art. 3 (1) (a) 4 The Act provides that the company may terminate the non-compete agreement concluded with the previous member of the Management Board with a 14-day notice period. The second sentence of that provision provides that the mandatory part of the notice is to specify the date on which the non-compete agreement ceases to bind the parties. And third point, to the article. 4, the representative of the Legislative Office: doubt as to compliance with the provisions of Article. 2 The Constitution is governed by the principle of a democratic rule of law that the law enters into force on the day following the date of its publication. And finally, the fourth argument. According to Art. The proposed law shall expire on 30 June 2016. The Act is a law amending the Act of 29 December 1992 on radio and television, so that the Act on radio and television will be amended as soon as it enters into force, and the provisions of the Art. 2 and 3 amendments will be implemented and extinguished. The High Izbo, a representative of the applicants, Mrs Bubula, referred to these arguments, stressing that the law is, according to the applicants, of a time-limit, because it is a law preceding the law, which, according to the representative of the government, will be Minister Czabański Asked, among other things, by me It was presented in Parliament at the turn of March and April. In this regulation there will be a complete transformation of organisational and legal organisations of public media. I will remind you that the current regulation under the Radio and Television Act... [[It's been a while, Mr. Senator.]] [[Well, it's a report.]] [[The rapporteur has 20 minutes. The rapporteur has 20 minutes, Senator Rooster.]] Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, as a disciplined senator, I therefore conclude my submission by informing the High House that in the vote 12 senators supported the bill, 6 were against it. There was no abstention. I recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u173	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn, to present the proposals of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u174	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! A minority of committees asks that the bill be rejected, mainly because the Member on behalf of the applicants, but also today the rapporteur who preceded me here, presented a explanatory statement that was completely inadequate for the content of the submission. Because, of course, there are many shortcomings in the functioning of public media. There was a discussion about this, and you spoke about it on behalf of the applicants. You can talk. And that's what they said at the committee meeting. That the message was not always objective, not always professional, not always impartial, that the time allocated to individual groups satisfied someone, and not that much or too much, in the opinion of those who speak, is critical of this government. I have to say, I had the same opinion when we had the government. [[Impossible.]] Yes, it is possible and true. But, ladies and gentlemen, this bill doesn't apply at all. This bill is hitting something... [[Power.]] ...which is most valuable in the public media, namely in this construction, which, as the previous speaker quoted here, is intended to provide an adequate, maximum distance between political decision-makers and public media managers. [[And it is Mr. Dworak who provides that distance...]] Mr. Marshal... [[Quiet, please. A minority representative shall have freedom of expression.]] And now I'm going to refer to what the marshal says. If we have doubts as to whether this distance is appropriate, then there should be provisions in this law that increase this distance, which guarantee impartiality. And what do we get? We are getting something that is already causing serious concern in Europe, not just in the country. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as it is said colloquially, you are trying to treat the plague with cholera. Instead of going towards depoliticisation, moving politicians away from the impact on public media, it is usually proposed in the world, be no ceremony, or without any consultation, total politicisation of public media. Something like this, ladies and gentlemen, was never in the Third Republic. They've been arguing since the beginning of this bill... During the meeting, Senator Jackowski, who had just reported here, because he was well aware of these issues, because he worked as chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media in the Sejm, and talked about this dispute from the beginning. But the direction you are proposing is a direction that is not intended to improve us, not to remove what was so annoying, but to reverse us to the times of the Polish People's Republic. 'Cause what is it? This bill, already known as the staff bill, is, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal to make, no less, no more Well, you don't want to believe it, but that's the way it is, no less, no more. The minister from a specific government, i.e. a politician, appointed both the board of directors and the board of directors. There hasn't been such a thing, and there isn't, as far as I'm concerned, in any European democratic country. We'll be an avant-garde. It is no wonder that these opinions, which are orally expressed or communicated to us only at the committee's meeting, are absolutely critical of this project. Referring to the same provisions that were quoted here by my predecessor, it appears that the independence of public media will be absolutely obvious, absolute and totally deleted and that it is incompatible with some earlier decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Rules that it is incompatible with the very many European acts and conventions that we have adopted, ratified and which apply to us and that, please, this is also incompatible with this justification. The rapporteur, who was pressed with questions about why this was the case, tried to throw us away by saying that it was about calming the situation. But, ladies and gentlemen, what concern is this with the functioning of public media today? Does it bother you that public television finally has a positive financial result of PLN 147 million that public television in independent studies accepts 75% respondents that public television has up to 30% The biggest share of the electronic media market in Europe? You could say that the one-man board appointed six months ago did a good job, led the company straight. If you will, and rightly so, I humbly say so... If you're accusing us that these flaws that have affected a lot of statements on the committee, we haven't removed them and that you're going to. This is because we know that work is underway and that there will be new legal solutions, that's fine, we will discuss them. But, ladies and gentlemen, really, in such a way, in the morning, on New Year's Eve, we do not make such changes, saying that, here we are, here we are, we have pure intentions, clean hands, we want to increase the objectivity and independence of public media. How? By taking them over, by taking them politically. Ladies and gentlemen, it is hardly surprising that, given also the opinion of the Association of European Journalists, which is protesting, we are calling for the failure to work on this law to reject it. Because if what the Minister said yesterday is true, that we are not much apart from this real amendment, to remove the shortcomings that have been mentioned in the committee, and which Senator Jackowski spoke about, and which we find difficult to disagree with, although of course, each of us How will politicians have their vision optics, if that is so, then why all the sudden change and take over all the boards? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a sequence of events: first the Constitutional Tribunal, then... [[Kids!]] ...political company manning, today political manning of the most important positions in public service and political manning of public media. [[Then NATO and the UN.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time for some more reflection... [[Maybe we should abdicate, Mr. Senator?]] ...maybe it's time for a broader reflection, and I, in conclusion, would like to share it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no denying the winners of the election the opportunity to fill public positions in order to ensure the implementation of their programme. [[Thank you.]] It's a good law for every government. But in a democratic state of law... [[It hasn't been in the country in eight years.]] ...you can do all this with respect to the rules of this democratic rule of law. And you, in my opinion, have no respect for them, and that is why you want to change them completely. If, in the case of the Court, in the case of public service, in this case, you really want to remove the shortcomings of these democratic mechanisms, I would not say anything but applaud. But you want these restrictions to ensure that fundamental democratic values are respected, to abolish and replace perhaps with efficient, but no longer democratic, just political conduction. That can't be allowed. And it is not because we have no respect for the state, we have no respect for the government, but because we think that even though we are extremely tempted and even though we would very much like to act as rulers in the past and the state today speed up some things, unfortunately it is not possible to do so because we must respect democratic order. Unfortunately, it is embarrassing, but it also contains safeguards so that we cannot voluntarily make decisions that will, for example, be made. contrary to the constitution, which will make the media and media communications dependent on the decisions of politicians. You can't do that. So I just want to point out that from you we receive this message: these democratic mechanisms They don't work properly... [[That's the fifth time you've said that.]] And at the same time we get a proposal: let's not fix it, let's throw it in the trash. [[Applause]] [[And this disease is called cancer!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u175	Thank you very much. [[Philanthropy with a sense of superiority.]] Quiet, please! At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. And he was the first person to ask Senator Sługock's question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. [[He's not here.]] There's no senator. It's Mr. Senator... [[There it is. He's sitting next to me.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Sorry, it's tired.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u176	The marshal asked for silence, so I was quiet. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To the Senator of the rapporteur I'll allow myself to formulate one rather simple question, but, I think, a fundamental question. In your speech, you were kind, Mr Senator, to say that the bill of procedure is in line with European Union law. So let me quote the correspondence to Mr Marek Kuchciński, Marshal of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. This is an opinion on the compatibility with European Union law of the draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television Ms Barbara Bubula was the applicant's representative. And now the conclusion of this correspondence, I quote: the Polish bill amending the Act on Radiophony and Television is contrary to European Union law to the extent that it introduces the requirement of Polish citizenship for members of the boards of public radio and television companies. To the rest, the project is without prejudice to European Union law. End of quote. Signed: Director of the Sejm Analysis Office, Mr. Michał Warciński. Mr Senator, is the project compatible with European Union law or is it not compatible? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u177	Mr. Senator, if you'd listened to me carefully, you'd say that I was quoting, and I read the justification they gave to the applicants. And there's a reason for that. I'll read it again. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is compatible with European Union law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u178	So, Mr. Senator, explain to me how to understand this conclusion that I have quoted. If you're having second thoughts, here's the document, I'm doing the courtesy thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u179	Mr. Senator, I know this document perfectly well because I read it. As far as I'm concerned, opinion is not a dogma. This is the opinion expressed by the author. You have the right to rely on this opinion. I'm not discussing it. I read a section of the justification that the applicants presented in Seym printing No 158.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u180	So I understand, Mr. Senator, that you underestimate the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Bureau signed by the director of this office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u181	I'm sorry, we're at a questioning stage right now, not a discussion. [[That's the question: does the senator underestimate this opinion?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u182	But, Mr. Marshal, I don't understand what I have... I answered the senator's question. If the senator is impertinent... I didn't say... [[I'm not impertinent, I'm asking.]] You're impertinent. I presented the committee's position. I don't argue or discuss or analyze opinions because there were several opinions, they were different. And we can discuss this here, if it is the will of the High House, I would very much like to... You asked the question, I answered the question. You remain in your opinion, I presented the opinion of the majority of the joint committees, which was expressed in the vote. [[That's experts! Great!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u183	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u184	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, let me disagree with your opinion on the constitutionality of these solutions. National Radio and Television Council is a constitutional body and its powers towards public media We can get straight out of the Constitution. Did the committee consult experts, constitutional law specialists during the work? And if so, what were the opinions? On this point, I would ask you to speak. And the second question. Public media authorities TV, radio and television will be appointed by the Minister of the Treasury, who therefore takes full responsibility not only for legal but also for programming, content, but also for programme quality and for the public mission. If the law enters into force, public media will de facto become government media. Are you familiar with any European patterns of solutions in which public media are directly invoked by the government, i.e. becoming de facto government media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u185	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u186	Thank you so much for these questions. So I'm gonna answer the first question that was asked, and in that order. There was no expert in constitutional law at the committee meeting. There was a committee expert, Professor Kowalski, who put his critical remarks in his oral statement. It's in the minutes of the committee meeting. I read a passage here because literally the Constitution does not give rise to the sovereign powers of the National Radio and Television Council in relation to media companies. This is only a statutory record. In this respect, I do not see any contradiction with the constitution, because this law does not eliminate the existence of the National Radio and Television Council and does not question its power of regulation. As far as the Treasury Department is concerned, High Izbo, I'll admit that a little bit of me... well, it's ridiculous to be accused that if the Treasury Minister appoints the President of the Treasury Company, we'll be dealing with a return to the Polish People's Republic. On this basis, 500 companies in which the Minister of Treasury appoints supervisory boards or influences as a general meeting on the appointment of supervisory boards and in fact appoints the presidents of these companies or boards would be from the Polish People's Republic. If you think so, please, then maybe we actually live in the reality of PRL bis. I would like to remind you that the Act on Radiophony and Television, currently in force, de facto allows in majesty the right to stubbornly or politicise public media from the simple fact that the camp of power, which creates members of the National Council of Radiophony and Television, and let me remind you that the Senate, the Sejm and the President do so, are electing the National Council... Until recently, the National Council had a large power to appoint supervisory boards, at this moment has a slightly smaller but de facto dominant role in the appointment of supervisory boards of public media. Therefore, we are dealing with the principle of dominoes. The political agreement in the country appoints the National Council of Radio and Television, the National Council of Radio and Television as a block domina appoints supervisory boards, the supervisory boards appoint boards, the board appoint directors of antennas or internal structure in these media, or editorial directors. So it's timed out. It's longer. De facto political mechanism. I was actually one of those people who criticized the bill from the start, and it was mentioned at the committee meeting, because that's what I was saying when I spoke. From the beginning I have been one of the critics of this solution, because it will always generate political disputes around public media. 'Cause there's always gonna be a majority if we stick to those old records. And that's why, given that, the government will propose It follows from what Mr Czabański said at the committee meeting, a law which will depart from the organisational model or organisational structure in the form of a company of commercial law and will lead to the situation that the public media will have the status of national cultural institutions with their own authorities, their council, which will appoint a head office. I do not know the details of this law, but it was possible to presume that on the basis of the statements of government representatives. And the second very important thing, this was also mentioned at the committee meeting. At the same time, stable sources of public media funding will be provided. I will remind you that the public media, according to estimates, need about PLN 2 billion 600 million, so that they can reliably... so that they have as much resources as the missions so that they can simply carry out their statutory tasks. So the argument right now is that the applicants are proposing a temporary bill. She's not the target. Return to the sovereign role of treasure minister who is responsible to the Sejm for these companies... Please note how many conflicts there have been in connection with irregularities in public media I'm talking about the space of the last 20 years. The State Treasury Minister, who is de facto the lead authority, has absolutely no influence on this company. I will recall the history of the 1990s or the time just after the year 2000, how many such disputes were then. There hasn't been a Platform yet, Law and Justice hasn't been, and these disputes have already existed. So that we want to cut it, we want to stop this philosophy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u187	Three questions each, and I'm asking you for specific answers.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u188	Mr Marshal, I still have to ask for the floor, because the President did not answer the question of European solutions, of solutions in other countries, which the committee's models followed, took...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u189	Mr. Senator, that wasn't the committee's work. [[But it's for me?]] I ask you to ask Senator Napieralski a question. [[Maybe someone to see the president...]] The next person to ask you a question is Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u190	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, here's my question. Law and Justice has repeatedly defended the public media as an institution that is independent of the government sphere, but also an institution that really does what public media should do, i.e. it deals with culture, education, science, entertainment and in particular with very reliable information. I have these questions. Will this law and these changes affect the fact that there will actually be good, very good educational programs for young people and children in public media? Will it happen that there will be a very good cultural proposal? What will happen to the proposal of creators, journalists, journalists who for many years have called for a major reform, a change in public media towards the creation of a serious institution that should operate in our country? What's gonna happen to the entire public media news station? Will this bill affect the fact that reliable information will be provided? What's going to happen to culture, to a very high level? I ask you to return to the proposal to broadcast the Television Theatre or other positions that should take place in public media. What about funding public media and really making public media independent of advertising blocks by reducing these blocks in public media? It's weird, too, that the current law is being bended and the programs are deliberately interrupted, or they're being prepared in episodes just to play advertising blocks. And finally, what about pulling the public media away from the government? Because there will always be temptation. No matter what political option will be in power, there will always be temptations to influence public media. Do these records guarantee that? [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u191	Excuse me, another question. Senator Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u192	I have a quick question. I already asked them at the committee meeting. What's the rush? There's no point in people sitting at night. There was an example of this in 2005, and now you repeat it. What's the rush anyway? If the bill's being prepared, you could wait until it's ready. It's one question. The second question my constituents asked on the phone is, do you not want to prepare a New Year's present for someone? At the same time, the question is whether it is also due to the fact that you want to make it cheaper, because the calendar year ends, to get rid of the heads of television centres Or television companies? That's not a question from me, that's a question from my constituents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u193	You're welcome, Senator. [[And the third?]] No, please, now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I answer Senator Napieralski's question. Well, this law, and I am the rapporteur of this law, does not refer either to the way public media is financed or to the scope of the mission described in the article. 21 the current Act on Radiophony and Television. I can express my conviction, because there was basically no discussion on this at the committee meeting, that as far as the operation of the mission is concerned, no new instruments or new responsibilities will be imposed in this respect or any new tasks will be imposed. You asked about the funding issues. At the committee meeting, I asked Minister Czabański if this major amendment would also include a stable, I would stress, stable, because as you... I will not now mention how the minority number of Poles pays a subscription or what are the proceeds from the subscription when it comes to operating costs... And that question you asked me about, the adverts... But it's about to happen. Well, the Minister replied: yes, there will also be this issue. If she's solved, what are the government's intentions, I can't answer that. Finally, the issue of advertising. It was Minister Lufthansa, who was present, who raised the question that it would be necessary to consider whether public media should be allowed to interrupt the programmes by advertising blocks, because He asked this question as an open question, as a question in the discussion, the losses are evident and it can be estimated how many public media by prohibition... I will say that commercial media can interrupt programs by blocks, it is very well defined what time it can be, how much time it can be, etc., and public media They don't have that option. Of course, public media can broadcast ads, there are certain time limits, but they can't interrupt... So all this remains to be discussed with a large... To conclude in one sentence: in terms of mission and funding, this law will not change anything. I'll answer Senator Fedorovich's question, why the rush? I can say the committee got the job, we did the sitting. Anyone who wanted to take the floor could take it, spoke, I don't know, from 10 senators, all the experts, all the participants, so there was no pressure, any requests for... Yes, there was a request to close the list of speakers at the meeting, but it was a proposal that was unanimously adopted by the joint committees, which shows that it was not political. [[Voice from the room: One held back.]] Excuse me? Oh, one abstention or against, Senator... I'm not gonna get into this anymore, anyway... I'm answering your question. And this haste... Well, it's just that the House has started discussing this, and it's such a natural need to put an end to the laws that have been adopted this year. In a formal sense, this law is a simple law, it is not complicated, long, etc. It sets out for a transitional period the way in which companies' authorities are created, and I also stress: in the form of companies, public media. She doesn't prejudice on mission, tasks, doesn't impose any new catalog, etc., etc. To answer the question of the viewer or the listener, or the senator's voters connected with the question of the New Year's present, because that was the essence of the question... I don't know anything about whether it's a New Year's present or not. I suppose, if our deliberations had not been prolonged, we would have been already after the adoption or after the examination, perhaps in this way, not after the adoption, but after considering the four points that were at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u195	Thank you very much. If I may, as a supplement to Senator Napieralski, I will say that television has limitations on the time of issue. They are derived from the law and the television is meticulously obeying it, here there are no objections. The bill doesn't touch it at all, so the discussion is pointless. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u196	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I understand, and I know exactly the records. I meant that it was in the promises of law and justice to present a whole package of changes to public media. I was convinced, which is why I asked the senator such a question that the changes that will be proposed in this bill are also going in this direction. I am actually in favour of public media being, as the Senator rapporteur said, well funded, so that the educational part, the information part, the part that does not appear in commercial media for obvious reasons, is because this content is not commercial, it appears in public media. Thus, the question about the stability of financing, thus showing that even though everything is written very carefully in the bill, is for example how we watch the news and after the news sports, and after the sport, we see that they are interrupted by advertising, and should not be so. I am in favour of restricting these advertisements in public media, so that these media are rather free from advertising, stablely funded and filled with really very good content. And that's what I miss about this bill, and that's why I'm asking the Senator of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u197	Once again... the bill we're debating today doesn't touch this case at all. I can answer like this. There is work to be done on a bill that will talk about it, so there will be time for discussion. There is no point in us developing this thread now, because this law does not apply at all. So the question to the rapporteur is unrelated to the subject of this law. I ask you to ask Senator Elephant and then Senator Pakkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u198	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. I wouldn't ask that question if the senator hadn't spoken several times during the report about disrespect, about the fact that we don't respect you, and if the senator hadn't scolded a woman about a half an hour ago, he wouldn't have scolded her. Well, my question is simple: how does the Senator rapporteur of the minority assess the situation in which the same rapporteur holds his hand in the pocket for most of his report? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u199	Stop, stop... I'm sorry. Mr. Senator, but I'm repealing this question. [[Thank you very much.]] Please ask questions lasting no more than one minute in connection with the bill. So I'm sorry. Senator, don't answer that question. I'd like to ask you a question from Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u200	During your speech, you spoke to the senator, once again, about breaking the constitution. If you have a document from an authority that is competent to issue such decisions in relation to the meeting of the committee I attended yesterday... I'm offended by you. I was in the whole session and I didn't hear... At the committee meeting, whose work you reported, this document was not presented. You said it... Or you said something that's true, and I didn't notice it at the committee meeting. It's possible because there was a lot of confusion. Or you manipulated the facts. I'm asking for an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u201	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u202	Thank you for that question. I have expressed the opinion of the minority, so not the majority, not all, but the minority I belong to. It was an opinion. What was my opinion based on? I'll tell you what. Here you go. The Constitutional Tribunal is competent to rule on such matters. Well, maybe we should look at what the Court says. As regards the appointment and dismissal of members of the supervisory boards of public media Because once such a test was in the case of supervisory boards, and this is the case with the law, the Court states, I quote: this would be the case. This is 1995 completely contrary to the constitutional understanding of the principle of the independence of public radio and television, and would violate the constitutionally established responsibility of the National Radio and Television Council for the proper functioning of these media. Let me remind you that this law transfers these powers. Those referred to by the Court I'm going to the minister's office. So this is the same situation as the case with which the Constitutional Tribunal has spoken. In addition, it notes that the appeal of the members of the Management Board and of the Supervisory Boards introduces the full discretion of the one-man government body, i.e. the total personal dependency that the Court has observed. So far, it's been avoided. In another opinion, prepared by Polish Television lawyers, there is a breach of the article. 54 constitutions, as well as, and in particular, infringement of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 the Constitution, which concerns the appointment and dismissal of public media authorities, as well as the reconciliation of the statutes of public broadcasting companies. It is from this provision that the article is derived from. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Radio and TV Act. Finally, the opinion of our Legislative Bureau, in which our legislators twice state that they believe that the article was violated. 2 of the Constitution in two respects: firstly, the principle of protection of acquired rights and interests in progress is not respected, and secondly, the proper vacathio legis, which should precede the entry into force of the law, which is also, of course, a violation of the democratic rule of law. That's what I meant when I expressed my conviction on behalf of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u203	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u204	Mr. Marshal! The senator did not give us the history of the Court's rulings or the history of the opinion, but the report of yesterday's committee meeting. Statement that yesterday's committee arrangements And there's a term for it, you can go back to it, listen to the recordings. They are incompatible with the constitution... Since you do not have a document confirming that the findings of yesterday's committee meeting are inconsistent with constitutional provisions, on what basis? I repeat this question. That's what you're saying, considering it for granted, a leper?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u205	I gave you the basics. I spoke about this at the committee meeting on behalf of the minority, and I presented it again on behalf of this minority.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u206	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the senator's question. Terminian.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u207	I have a question. Senator Jackowski, rather, but perhaps Senator Augustine will be able to answer them. My question is this. The Act states that the supervisory board of the company has 3 members, but it is customary for the company's statutes to regulate the number of members of individual bodies in commercial law companies, and that is what we are talking about, and that is why my question... No, come back. At the same time, it is not stated how many board members are to be made. We're working in extraordinary mode, so I couldn't get ready. And my question is this: is today in any document The number of board members and the number of members of the supervisory board in the public media is regulated by law, regulation, statute?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u208	Wait a minute. Next question Mr. Senator Klich. Mr. Senator Golba, and then Mr. Senator Dowhan. Please. [[May I?]] Please, Senator Golba, ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u209	I have a question for the rapporteur. At yesterday's committee meeting there was a broad discussion, we discussed the functioning of public media. And I would like to ask you if you, as rapporteur of the committee, felt that today's media, which still exist in such a composition, were apolitical, objective, impartial. And it rained, among other things. the wording. It was also mentioned that a large number of employees And it was good employees that were brought out of TV, to sub-companies. We've also had complaints like this. At least such complaints came to me, earlier to the parliamentary office, and now to the senator's office. Were good bands really being broken up, especially very good editorial teams? And when it comes to apoliticality, when it comes to objectivity or impartiality of public media, you can see... It was said that in the last relationship, as we have seen, the public media only devoted 14 minutes to the President and one of the political parties almost 5 hours. Therefore, there was an offended political formation of the Civic Platform, which was outraged that it was simply being pushed out, and decided that something should be done about it, because it is, as you know, the biggest competitor, namely Mr Petru and Modern, and that this means that we will probably be plowed, and Mr Petru will now reign... And one more thing: whether such a statement has been made regarding a member of the National Radio and Television Council, Minister Lufthansa, that certain changes should be made to the public media, because this is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u210	You're welcome. I would like to remind you of the 1-minute time of the questioning and the fact that the senator has no obligation to answer questions that do not concern a committee meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u211	I'm gonna answer the senator first, 'cause I'm gonna miss it later. Mr Luft, if I remember correctly, said that about the formula of action, etc. There should be a discussion. I'm no longer getting into the details of how it was expressed, in any case that thought came up. With regard to the way in which the mission was carried out or the reliability of meeting these criteria, yes, a large part of the discussion was on the subject, because, according to the regulations, Mr Marshal limited my speech to 20 minutes, I could not present it in my report because I did not make it. But I can confirm that this was the discussion. In general, there were two sides. Minister Lufthansa presented a study of the National Radio and Television Council on the electoral campaign. However, during the discussion there were different views. It goes on, among other things. A week on TVP Info, in which the president took 14 minutes, and Mr Petru took 5 hours. This is a discussion in which, of course, everyone will probably stick to their own sentence. I can generally express my view. I critically evaluate objectivity, reliability and the creation of an open forum for public debate in many, I do not say that in all, information and public television programs of the Polish Television. As far as the rest of the mission, culture, religion, cinema, etc. is concerned, there was no discussion. We restricted ourselves in the discussion to these information programmes, well, necessarily the most important from the point of view of current public life in Poland. In reply to the senator, I say that I do not imagine that I do not know, but I do not know that, in fact, you are right, in this draft law there is a provision that the councils are three-person, so that under the rule of this law, if it is passed and entered into force, there will be no amendment of the company statutes, because it will simply be necessary for the operation of the companies. As it will be, I am unable to answer you because there has been no discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u212	Thank you. [[I'll be more specific.]] Precisely? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u213	Mr. Senator, I'm guessing this record will be transferred to the company statute. It's obvious. But my question was different. How is it regulated today? Is it in the statute today, or is it in some regulation or in the bill? I just don't know, and I'm very interested.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u214	I'll answer you right away. As far as I'm concerned, I hope I'm right. At the moment, these are commercial law companies operating under the Commercial Companies Code, and each of them has its statutes... No? The Minister's head is spinning, so I don't want to go through and say something that's not consistent with the facts. Maybe it'll be another question, and maybe you'll get an answer. In any case, there was no discussion on this at the committee meeting. In the past, as I remember, there was a statute, a statute defining the number of members of the board and an internal organisation. I don't know, I think there's nine members on Polish Television... Or seven? [[Member of Krzysztof Luft National Radio and Television Council: 7.]] Seven? What about the Polish Radio? [[Member of Krzysztof Luft National Radio and Television Council: Also 7.]] Seven, too. And in regional companies, it's probably five? [[Member of Krzysztof Luft National Radio and Television Council: Yes, 5.]] [[Voice from the hall: What about the board?]] On board of 3 and more people. [[Why don't we ask Mr. Luft to stand and...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u215	But, excuse me, Senator, I'm either speaking or I'm not speaking. I didn't give the senator the floor. [[But you're already...]] Senator, please don't help me with this. You had the voice of Senator Terminski. He asked you a question to Senator Jackowski... [[Clarification.]] Precisely? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u216	I was able to get information on the board of directors. I'd just like some information about the board. Is there a minimum and maximum number of members of public media boards?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u217	I think that during the discussion a representative of the National Radio and Television Council will probably speak, and I propose that you address this question to him, because I may have old knowledge, I remember how it used to be, but at the moment I am unable to give it and I do not want to initiate this discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u218	If I may further clarify... Mr. Senator, there were no allegations from any of the parties that the question of the number of members of the supervisory board should be regulated by law. So that's generally not the problem. The question is whether it is in other companies. It's okay. So it's not really a problem. And in addition, I will say that the number of members of the National Council is 5: 2 members elected by the Sejm, 2 by the President, 1 by the Senate. Another person to ask questions is Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u219	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. With regard to what you have now responded to the Terminian Senators, I would say that I am very pleased because you said: if this bill is passed. So there is still hope that it may not be passed, and I see that you are not fully convinced of this law. But I'd like to ask you something. Because it's so nice of you to say that you're going to try to cut costs. How do you want to reduce the cost of television? Do you think they'll be eliminated because such voices appear, regional troops? What costs look like at the moment, and how they're going to look like. Next year? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u220	Mr. Senator, let's group up the questions. Mr Štark... Mr Senator Štark... [[Senator.]] Senator, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry. [[Mr. Marshal...]] The microphone's not working.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u221	It's okay now. [[The question is, to me, is the senator...]] No, no, of course to the Senator rapporteur. In view of the fact that the National Council is a constitutional body, it should be noted, however, that there is no argument in the explanatory memorandum to the Act justifying the withdrawal of the 14-day term vacathio legis. In view of the fact that vacathio legis has not been preserved, that the law may be unconstitutional? That's the first question. Second question. What is the chance to introduce the Act as of 1 January 2016? And when will there be this comprehensive bill that we're all waiting for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u222	Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u223	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the senator of the rapporteur for minority proposals. On the basis of which point in the Rules of Procedure did the senator extend his statement to a scope which was not the subject of a committee meeting? I was a participant, I attended a committee meeting. I understand that the senator has the right to his own opinion, but at the moment there is a stage: asking questions and answers from the senators of the rapporteurs. You are the rapporteur for minority proposals, and I would like to remind you that the two minority proposals submitted by the senator were submitted in principle after the end of the committee meeting. We took it because of an acclamation, didn't we, Senator? [[It's an oversight.]] Well, it's an oversight, senator, that it wasn't filed in the Rules of Procedure, but we accepted it, and I want to stress it. However, the rapporteur has gone very far beyond the scope of information, which has been the subject of a committee meeting. I will not refer to the merit of this law, because we talked about this in broad terms at the committee meeting, and I have already expressed my opinion on today's lack of objectivity particularly in the information services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u224	Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u225	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Question for the Senator of the committee. Mr. Senator, were there any allegations during the committee's deliberations that the Minister of the Treasury was inappropriate to appoint the members of the Management Board and the President of the Management Board, or that these appointments and appointments were in any way depreciating these bodies? And what's your opinion on that? Because if the treasure minister could decide for so many years the entire estate of our state, the largest companies, why now? I've heard of it. That's the charge. That's the charge. Is this supposed to be the wrong authority to carry out such appointments?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u226	Mr. Senators, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u227	Then why don't I answer the questions I asked, and then the senator, in the order in which they were asked. I answer to Senator Dowhan. I cannot say as rapporteur that the bill has already entered into force, because right now, in the legal state in which we are, we are considering the project. I assume the House will accept this bill, but it hasn't happened yet, so let's not preempt events that haven't happened yet. As a result, I, on the basis of procedural caution, said what I said. I'm trying to be precise. Sometimes I go astray. Forgive me, but I hope... My opinion is that this bill is needed and it is good that it will be processed quickly. You asked for a reduction in costs. Sir, this will have to be asked, I think, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. And that's the conclusion I'm going to make. We will invite you if this law comes into force if new authorities are appointed Especially the Polish Television and especially the Polish Radio... But in my opinion, regional radio stations are also very important, and it is each of your senators who can confirm, because on a daily basis cooperates with such radio stations in their electoral districts. In light of the above... And then the plans will be presented for this transition period, because we're still talking about the transition state. And what are the ideas. My personal opinion. Because this was not mentioned at the committee meeting: I am absolutely opposed to the liquidation of Polish Television field offices. There have always been tensions about it, and it's been for over 20 years, as the bill works, there have been different ideas about it, new boards appeared, they wanted to reduce costs, they just wanted to reduce... and so there were tensions. There were also overinvested centers, such as those that were built in past times, very large, but for the current needs and for today's technology they are simply expensive. Is there a concept about this? If there's a new board, then it'll be an excellent question. In general, the bill reduces the cost of... just because there's a three-man supervisory board, she's definitely not going to be a seven-man council, so... Of course, it's a minimum cost saving, but it's always a grain-to-pearl, and a scoop will be collected. I'm answering Senator Shark's question. Well, you seem to be applying for a vacathio legis... [[Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: There is already this conclusion.]] [[He's in the report.]] There it is. That's right, it's in the report. Therefore, I don't know how the High House... Maybe he'll take it. And then it was a question that was addressed to me... [[Oh!]] Mr. Marshal, don't be surprised. We're on a special day, so things can happen. I wouldn't want to anticipate things, and I don't know anything about it. In my opinion, vacatio legis, but here is my opinion. It is not necessary in the case of this law because it is actually quite incidental, it does not apply to millions of Poles, it is not a law which would be universal to apply. This is a matter of organization of companies of the State Treasury. And this is where I come to answer Senator Elephant's question. Well, now there's a representative of the State Treasury, which is on the board of public media... [[He's one of many.]] He is one of many, yes, because others are selected by a competition by the National Radio and Television Council. But the representative is currently... [[One.]] And the other companies... Because I'll remind you that public media companies operate a little on the lex specialis principle, on the one hand they have a code of commercial companies, on the other hand a law on radio and television. But there are companies, those with the participation of the State Treasury or the State Treasury company, which, in terms of potential, have equally important for the functioning of our country. And so, on the one hand... Or else, acting as a general meeting, the Minister of the Treasury calls a notary and then it is taken, say, a resolution on changing supervisory boards or on not changing, etc., etc. Of course, today's law does not give the Treasury Minister the authority to appoint or appoint these presidents or members of the public media boards, but gives him the opportunity to act through the members of the supervisory board who will in turn elect these presidents. So it's not gonna be that the State Treasury Minister will automatically appoint a person named X or Y as Chairman of the Board. That's how many are gonna be executives. Will they be single, will they be triple, or will it be something else? I really don't know. Don't ask me that because it wasn't discussed at the committee meeting. I think I answered the questions that were addressed to me. That's it for now. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u228	Yes. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u229	Mr Senator, it is very often the case that reporting representatives, both majority and minority representatives, also express their views. It's important that this is marked. I marked it. First of all, I was talking about four reasons which, at the beginning, perhaps in one of the first speeches at the committee meeting, were the justification for the minority's motion to reject the law, first it was my motion. I introduced them there and here. These include: completely inadequate justification, constitutional reservations, non-compliance with many European Union laws and, above all, the lack of solutions to the problems raised at the committee meeting. In the end, I said it was my opinion. I told you it all worked out for me in the conclusion that I expressed here in my own name. I pointed out that this is how it works out for me. Since Christmas Eve, there has been a change in the Constitutional Court Act, at the same time agricultural agencies were dealt with and competitions were abolished, and today civil service issues have been addressed and Finally, this law was dealt with. I took the liberty of making such a statement on my own behalf.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u230	Thank you very much, Senator. Next group of questions. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u231	Mr. Senator! I'll take the chance you're in the podium. Actually, I was gonna split the questions between you two, but I'm gonna address both of them to you. Does the committee realise that, in at least two places, the proposed change is, in my opinion, a bad change to the Constitution is in breach of Article. 54 and Article 54 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 213 constitutions? It's mostly mouths. 1 of this article. I'll remind you, Art. 213 talks about the functions of the radio and television council, and paragraph 213 talks about the functions of the radio and television council. 1 speaks of her role as a public interest guard in the media. Is the committee aware of this, or was it simply not discussing it at all? That's the first question. And the other. How did you address the voices of concern from the environments in which we operate, from the institutions in which we are Poland as a country? I am thinking, above all, of the OSCE representatives who write about the deep concern about the law, on the opinion of the European Commission, on the letter of Timmermans to the Ministers of Ziobra and Waszczykowski and on the positions of three very significant associations, namely the European associations of broadcasters, the European association of journalists and the organisation which is our, having opposition experience, probably the closest. I'm talking about reporters without borders who helped us when we were fighting government media in the Polish People's Republic. What do you think?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u232	Thank you. One second, Mr. Senator. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u233	Thank you very much. I'll have a question for Senator Augustine. It will refer to questions about the treasure minister and his role. I'd like to ask the senator to present the opinion of the treasure minister. The representatives of the treasure minister were at the committee meeting yesterday. The treasure minister will be the person who will appoint new regional station directors who will appoint the president and the board of directors... [[And the board of directors.]] And the board of directors. I would like to ask how the Minister of the Treasury referred to this, because, contrary to what you think, the settlement of public media as a company of the Treasury may raise huge doubts, but I will say this in the discussion. And now I ask Senator Augustine, if he can hear me, to refer to these opinions of the Minister of Culture and the Ministry of the Treasury, to what they told us yesterday about this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u234	Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u235	Thank you, I have a question for Mr Jackowski. Why is the bill a parliamentary one, not a government one? Does that mean the government is ashamed of this bill? It's one question. Second question. Is it true that the president is about to sign this bill when he gives the New Year's message? Will he come to Warsaw on purpose, or perhaps one of the senators will take this bill to him to sign? [[Questions below the belt.]] Is it true that in the near future news on TV will be broadcast e.g. At 3:00 a.m. to connect live to the Senate of the Republic of Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u236	Are there any more questions? You're welcome, Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u237	I'd like to ask you this. The question is to Senator Jackowski. Perhaps you know the reason for this haste that involves the parliamentary project. [[That's what Fedorovich asked.]] I would like to remind you that the government side is saying that there will be, as we would say, a new system of national media in three to four months' time, a major amendment that will change the philosophy of the functioning of public media at all. I would therefore like to ask, what is the intention of this, as the applicants themselves say, of a partial, minor amendment in connection with this announcement? Does the senator know that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u238	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer. First, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u239	As regards the awareness of the members of the committee of constitutional reservations, I have already mentioned this, these opinions have been made known to the members of the committee, some of them have been written, and Minister Lufthansa has also said in his statement of these objections. So the awareness, I believe, of the members of the committee was one of the reasons why a minority of committees thought that, in relation to these important objections, especially to the article. 54, Art. 213 and Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 2 Constitutions, we should not adopt this law. That was the line. With regard to the response of European institutions and organisations, we had the opinion of the President, Janusz Daszczyński, who exchanged documents resulting from the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, recalled the documents of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, the 2nd Council of Europe and the specific judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, and was only referring to one thing, that is to say, the Association of European Journalists, which called for this act to stop. So the partial consciousness was. Not all the issues mentioned by your President have been raised, but these have been raised. To answer the next question, to the senator's question, it was very interesting because we asked what Mr Czabański's opinion was, what was the opinion of the representatives of the Ministry of Treasury, and it was symptomatic that representatives of both ministries I don't know how to put it. First of all, they said that the Sejm project did not require such an opinion, and they did not want to present such opinions as representatives of the resorts, so we could not get them directly. In any case, I remember such a remarkable gesture of Minister Czabański, who was not able to ask for a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u240	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u241	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I will answer your questions to me. First thing. Senator Zdrojewska asked for this lack of opinion. Well, it's natural that the government... [[I asked Senator Augustine.]] But I will refer to it as the rapporteur of the majority. [[It's okay.]] Mr Czabański could not present the position of the government because he was not authorized to do so, as this law was not the subject of a meeting of the Council of Ministers, and it is therefore difficult for him to present his personal views. If he had presented his personal views, the opposition would have said it was a scandal, the minister was presenting his personal views. He didn't have the authority. I would like to thank him that, despite his late arrival, he was still present at the joint committee meeting, as was the representative of the Ministry of the Treasury. I will now address the question of Senator Libicki. I'm already on it. I was talking about the rush... In my opinion, it is nothing unusual, in this House in its previous term of office, various laws have also been processed very quickly, so it is not... [[Not so fast!]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...it's not a law that goes beyond those standards. [[It's been two days since the signing?]] Senator Klich's question requires a broader comment, because I was very clear about it. [[But I didn't ask you, thank you very much.]] But I have the right to refer to it as a rapporteur... [[But I got the answers to the questions.]] ...and I want to remind you of what was said: the Radio and Television Act, and I am surprised that the senator does not know, comes from 1992. The Polish Constitution comes from 1997. In the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, no functions other than regulatory functions have been assigned to the National Council of Radiophony and Television. There is not a single word that the National Radiophony Council creates the authorities of media companies or influences their creation. This is not enough, in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, it is clearly stated that the National Council, as an organ... [[Correction!]] ...regulatory in a given country, is a regulatory body for all market participants and as such should be impartial and operate transparently. On the other hand, the existing legislation gives the National Radio and Television Council competence in the field of dominion The law passed it, a law earlier than the Constitution; perhaps it was an error of the Constitution's authors that they did not specify it more widely in the Constitution, but this is the reality, this is the legal condition. In relation to public broadcasting units operating in the form of single-member public limited-liability companies of the State Treasury, although these companies are also strong and significant participants in the audiovisual services market. According to the existing legislation, which needs to be amended, the National Radio and Television Council decides among others. on the composition of the State Treasury companies' bodies and the content of the statutes of these companies. From the point of view of independence, impartiality and transparency of the regulatory body, and I stress that this function is enshrined in the Constitution See recital (94) and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the European Regional Development Fund Such a regulation raises far-reaching reservations, Senator. Your constitutional tasks . defending freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television The National Council may act impartially and transparently only as a regulatory body. That motif you're talking about, the violations of the constitution in these two articles were not raised at the committee meeting. Even the legislator of our Legislative Office did not refer to this in his opinion. So it is unfounded that you suggest that the constitution is being violated or violated in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u242	Thank you. [[Corrigendum.]] Mr. Senator, we have Minister Luft with us from the National Council, to whom I would like to speak, so let's do one last round of questions for the senators. [[But I didn't get the answers.]] Senator Klich wanted to correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u243	Yeah, well, I wanted to... I was also asking someone else to protect Senator Jackowski from standing up, but unfortunately he did. So maybe he'll learn something. Art. 213 of the Constitution, Mr. Senator, makes it clear that the National Council is a guardian of the public interest in the media. [[So what?]] On the basis of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, it has been made clear that the National Council ensures that the public interest is represented in the public media. So consider not only the constitutional record... In fact, it would suffice to take into account the constitutional provisions and not to refer to the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] And that's why I'm just correcting what you said because I asked you to...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u244	Mr. Senator, if we're quoting the articles, I'm quoting the article. 48 Rules of Procedure of the Senate... [[Mr. Marshal, may I have your word?]] [[That's a corrigendum.]] ...that the correction concerns a misunderstood or misconstrued statement. That wasn't a corrigendum. Senator Dowhan. [[This is not a debate, a discussion.]] It was polemic. Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u245	Thank you. I asked the questions. I don't know, or should I say it again? [[Say it again.]] I asked why it wasn't a government project, it was a parliamentary project. [[Yes, sir.]] I asked for the president's signature... [[Voice from the room: When...]] ...when will it be, or today along with the New Year's message? And if we have any news... [[But that's not a question for the Senator rapporteur.]] [[I can't answer that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u246	Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Let's ask all the questions. Senator Libicki. [[Insolence! We too will be insolent and close the discussion!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u247	First of all, I asked the reason for this haste, and Senator Jackowski replied to me that the last term was also rushed. Well, that's not the answer to my question. The second question is the following. I'll do it again. [[But what...]] If you're Minister Czabanski... [[But write the answers...]] Good. [[...for questions. Write down if the answers are in line with your expectations.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, I'll be more specific. This clarification is as follows. [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[No, Mr. Marshal, you can't do that.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] [[You can't do that, even if you don't like the answers.]] Minister Czabański said that such a large constitutional law concerning national media would be in March or April, so I ask why, since Minister Czabański says so and talks about a large law, suddenly there is some parliamentary project, a small one, I would say, technical, but important. Does the senator know what the reason is that this project we're investigating is a little contrary to Mr Czabański's announcement? And that's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u248	Thank you. And Senator Zdrojewska. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u249	Thank you very much. I'm a corrigendum. The questions at the committee meeting were addressed to members of the government, not questions about the government's opinion. There was nothing like that. We thought the government members would have something to say, but they didn't. Now let me ask you a question. The question this time is addressed to Mr Jackowski. [[Senator.]] I'd like to ask you, because I've been trying to figure out if you know a case like this in the world, that a member of the government is setting up a one-man board and media oversight board, any media. I found, of course... My question is not about Russia or any banana republics or communist dictatorships. Please indicate such cases, such as the case that has just happened with us. Do you know of such a case in the history of the media in democratic countries? Thank you. [[Everywhere, in Germany, Spain.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u250	Thank you, Senator. [[BBC.]] Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u251	I will respond to Senator Zdrojewska in such a way that, as I understand it, you are calling for us to move the British solution to this bill, you do not like that it is the Minister, not the Prime Minister to appoint. I am willing to consider such a proposal because the BBC is considered the standard of public media. And there, in Britain, I declare to you, the Prime Minister decides who's in charge of the BBC. And this is a generally accepted standard. If you prefer it to be the Prime Minister, then prepare a bill. And we're gonna change the bill, we're gonna change the article, we're gonna change it. [[Applause]] As for Senator Dowhan's question about signing or not signing today... This question is not for me, I do not sign the laws, I am not the President of the Republic and I do not know what the President will say in the message. And as far as Senator Klich's question is concerned, he has overinterpreted the constitution. I can explain to Senator Klich, out of the sitting, without taking the time of the High House, that I could exclude from the constitution the need to appoint Grzegorz Schetin as Head of the Civic Platform. I'll find a recipe, too, and I even know which one, the constitution. And I can justify that. And we can discuss it. So please don't make such interpretations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u252	Were there any questions for you, Senator? No. Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u253	I still, if I may say so, use Senator Jackowski, the rapporteur... [[Senator, you're not here.]] Is it? Did he leave? Oh, there it is. Now you can hear me, can't you? You didn't answer my question about why this project is parliamentary, not government. Is the government ashamed of this project? And you didn't answer me either, if there will actually be news from the Senate at night, because we're still sitting at night. I hope you'll come back to that question. I have another question for you, if it were up to you, today... Because the secret is that the name of the new TVP boss is already known. If it were up to you, would you make Mr. Jack Kurski head of TVP today? And my second question is what will replace Thomas Lisa's program... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Wait a minute. ... Which will replace Tomasz Lisa's program... [[Mr. Senator, are you sure these are questions for the Senator rapporteur?]] Yes, these are questions for the Senator of the rapporteur. ... A show that's watching a few million people... [[But what does this have to do with the bill?]] Well, he's got... [[What's that?]] Because, as everyone says, this program will be taken off the air. [[But what does this have to do with the bill?]] Then perhaps the Senator rapporteur will answer... [[Voice from the room: There is no connection.]] ...will this program be removed from the antenna...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u254	Okay, Senator, you had a minute to ask a question. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... Senator Shark. [[I'll wait.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u255	I'd like to ask Senator Jackowski. o answer 'Cause I haven't gotten it yet. The question is, when will this comprehensive bill be mentioned, because we are very, very, very looking forward to it. And here, following this question, also the question of Senator Libicki...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u256	Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u257	I just want to say that once again, I haven't gotten an answer to my question, and I'm counting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u258	Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u259	I'll answer Senator Libicki. I'd like to give you an answer sooner if the marshal would allow me to speak. And since I'm trying to be a criminal and disciplined senator, if I'm not asked to speak, I'm not taking the floor. But if the senator had been from the beginning when we started proceding... I then wrote the answer to the question about this haste. I said, and I can say again that I suppose the applicants wanted to move quickly... And at the same time, I answer to Senator Shark. This question, Mrs Senator, should be addressed to Mrs Bbulla, who was the representative of the applicants, yesterday or today at the committee meeting. The rush is because people expect change. And that's a good change. Was there anyone else I was supposed to answer? [[Voice from the room: When the bill...]] When will there be a comprehensive bill? I don't know, but I've said it twice here, maybe three times. - You can check it. According to Minister Czabański's declaration, the bill will be at the end of March and April. This comprehensive bill, which concerns all these... some of the problems that we discussed and which go beyond the matter of this law. [[What about my questions, Senator?]] [[Mr. Senator...]] And as far as HR policy is concerned, I don't do that, so please direct these questions. If this law is adopted to the new authorities of Television Polska SA. I'm not saying anything about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u260	Are there any more questions for the senators? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[May I?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u261	Thank you. Mr. Senator Majority Rapporteur, you said the committee got the job. I understand she did it. In what hours did the committee do so today? Because I was at the beginning at 2:00 a.m., but then I left. So I'd like to know what time it is. That's what she did. And that's my question, one of the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u262	Mr. Marshal, I heard you on the radio today talking about the hours of the committee, so I think you know. But okay, Senator Jackowski, answer me. [[But I didn't listen to that radio.]] But you were there. [[In TOK FM, I listened.]] [[I did, but I didn't listen to the radio and...]] Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u263	I, too, heard your marshal's speech today in one of the commercial stations where you were very specific about what hours it was. But if you've forgotten, I'll remind you that we finished work just before 4:00, and we started it, as I recall, around 2:00, about this time. We held this meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure because the Rules of Procedure do not specify the time at which the committee may or may not be held. So that I have so much to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u264	Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u265	Mr Senator, you have addressed to me the words of the Member. I have listened very carefully, Madam President, and she has made it clear that this law is aimed at calming the situation around the media. That's why we had our questions about what happened, but that's what I'm saying. But there was a message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u266	Thank you very much. I have not yet told Marshal Borusewicz that the committee has done its job. Well, it's always the case that the Marshal runs the bill to the committee, and the committee has a duty to gather and take a stand. And in that sense, I said she did the job, in no other way, so I'd ask you not to suggest such things. Thank you... [[Voice from the room: And we like it at all...]] Just like any other committee working in the Senate under the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u267	Are there any more questions? There isn't. You asked the Minister to speak... [[There's just something I'd like to inform Senator Zdrojewska.]] But we're at the stage: questions to... [[But it's important because there's been such charges here that...]] I do. Only, Mr. Senator, we're at the stage: questions to the Senators rapporteurs. You asked for the floor of Minister Luft of the National Radio and Television Council. Can we give you... [[Mr. Marshal, on a formal matter.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u268	Was a government representative invited? [[Yes, a government representative was invited.]] Is there a government representative? [[He'll be right with us.]] I'm asking for a recess and a government rep. [[The government representative will be here any minute. I now give the floor to Minister Luft...]] No, no, Mr. Marshal. [[I object.]] This is a formal conclusion. I'm asking for a break and a call from the government, and I want to ask a question from a government representative. [[Voices from the O.R.: Okay.]] And you have in your script...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u269	Okay, I'm announcing a recess until 2:15 p.m. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 09 to 14 minutes 15]] I'm reopening the session. Hello, Minister Czabanski, representative of the government. I'm asking for the floor of Minister Luft. I don't know if he's with us, he was before recess. There it is. Minister, you're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Well, there were some things about which there was some expectation that I would explain something, too. First of all, I would like to add a slight correction to what the rapporteur said. When it comes to interrupting advertising programs, of course I was talking about costs incurred by the Polish Television in connection with the prohibition of interrupting advertising programs, films, costs rather not related to income, which could have been obtained if there had not been such bans. But I did not insist that such a restriction should be waived, on the contrary, I also said during the committee meeting... [[Voice from the hall: I didn't say that.]] Oh, okay, that's a misunderstood... So, on the contrary, speaking of certain changes, I was talking about the necessity... Mr. Senator mentioned that I was talking about the need for some changes in the functioning of public media, including television. with a radical reduction in the number of advertisements, not their total elimination, but a significant reduction, which we call for in the documents that we have passed on to the government and the parliamentary clubs in connection with these analyses and projects concerning the financing of public media. Financing public media, this is the second area, decommercialisation, so reducing the number of advertisements and reducing the need for advertising by public media, are the very important issues I had in mind. Also a certain socialization of public media... I understand that here various ways can be used, and they are also known in other countries, that is, for example. the participation of various other bodies, environments that could be interested, both creative and journalistic, as well as political ones that could be involved, for example. in the process of appointing and dismissing public media authorities... And here is the problem, which was also mentioned, namely how it is in other countries. I'd say yes. The most important thing that exists also in our country is some cooperation between the authorities and the various institutions, environments, with regard to the appointment of public media companies. Or an institution... [[Voice from the room:...Mr. Marshal, please...]] [[Go on. Excuse me.]] ...co-operation of various organs so that they are not so single-minded decisions. That's what really happens in all countries. Here was the example of the BBC. The establishment of the BBC authorities is a very complex process, these BBC authorities consist of an executive body, on the one hand... Sorry, they consist of the supervisory body, the BBC Trust, and the executive body, the BBC Board, which in turn is appointed by that supervisory authority. Of course, there are also authorities in these appointing processes. And in a lot of countries, that's the way it is. The share of government factors, but I am not familiar with such an example that it is called directly by the government of public media whether operating in the form of companies governed by commercial law, because there are also such examples, for example in Hungary, whether in the form of various institutions, it is always the cooperation of various bodies and organisations. This tends to take account of the participation of the social factor as well. In order not to be literal, I will recall France's example. They have enough recently made regulations, a new way to appoint the CEO of France Télévisions. Fifteen men... The appointment of the company president is, so to speak, co-decision, decision of the CSA, i.e. the French regulator, something like our National Radio and Television Council. In the absence of opposition from the Parliament and the Senate Committee on Culture. So it's usually some kind of interaction. In our system... Excuse me, I have an example of the Czechs here, because they're our neighbors. The supervisory body consists of 15 members elected by Parliament, while the candidates for these members represent organisations representing culture, regions, employers' trade unions, religious unions, educational and scientific centres, environmental organisations. So there's a co-decision element everywhere. What we have up to now is also how it works. Everyone has the overarching objective of some separation of political influences on public media. How do I do that? There is a political factor everywhere, but the idea is to create certain buffers that will reduce this impact and give these public media certain security of independence. In our system so far there is a National Radio and Television Council, which also does not take decisions regarding the appointment and dismissal of boards of public media companies in an arbitrary, one-person manner, but in cooperation with the body of supervisory boards, possibly with the Minister of the Treasury. The National Council cannot today dismiss the members of the board of directors of public media companies without a proposal from either the supervisory board or the treasure minister, or, more specifically, the general meeting. But the treasure minister does this job. When it comes to appointing, it's the same... Here an additional element was included in the form of a social factor such as academic bodies. Only the candidates of these universities may take part in competitions for members of supervisory boards. So each time this system relied on it, there was always some interaction between different organs. This is a buffer for the security of public media independence. The resolution of the Constitutional Court, mentioned by the senator of minorities, which refers to this issue... This is a key issue. Mr. Marshal, if I may have two more minutes... The thing that I consider most important in my statement is what is also stated in this judgment of the Court of December 1995. It clearly points out that the principle of the independence of public radio and television primarily refers to the issue of a certain independence from the government. In 1992, when these principles were introduced, when public radio and television were created, there was a departure from the system in which public radio and public television were government bodies. That was the case, there was the Committee on Radio and Television, a government agenda under the direct command of the Prime Minister. The entry into the new world of public media, which is widespread throughout Europe, was precisely the creation of a new system in which there is a radio and television council as one of these buffers. It was primarily about separating radio and television from the government and its associated parliamentary majority in order to prevent these media from being treated as a political governance instrument. Such an order to maintain internal pluralism in public broadcasting programmes is possible only if there is a clear distance from the current political manager. To this end, the Radio and Television Act has created three levels of decision-making on public broadcasting: the National Radio and Television Council, and as part of public broadcasting companies, supervisory boards and boards. Finally, it is possible to recall this passage from the Court's resolution: not only the creation of a new state body but the aim of safeguarding the independence of public radio and television is the basis for the existence of the National Radio and Television Council. The starting point is this independence, because only if it exists and is respected is it possible to actually ensure freedom of expression and the right to information. At that time, there was probably no equivalent of the Minister of Treasury. It would threaten the full personal dependence of the supervisory boards on the Minister of Finance. This would be completely contrary to the constitutional understanding of the principle of the independence of public broadcasting and would violate the constitutionally established responsibility of the National Radio and Television Council for the proper functioning of these media. So much for this resolution of the Constitutional Tribunal, and when it comes to the discussions on a certain legal position, I do not want to say: a certain constitutionality, because I do not feel competent to speak on this issue, but I refer to this judgment. And it seems to me that this is the clou of this whole thing, that is, the issue of the independence of public media so understood, and this is actually a quintessence... [[Just like now.]] Please? [[Just like now.]] No, you know, I think of course... Senator Jackowski mentioned that I was talking about the need for certain changes, and I also see these changes in the area of the need for greater socialisation of public media. That's what I agree with. It's not like I think everything is perfect. But I'm sure it's such a step that if we're not fully satisfied with the state that it is, then we eliminate everything and subpoena the public media directly to the government... This seems to me to be a step in the opposite direction and in our position which we have passed to the Marshal of the Sejm, this is marked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u271	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Dobrzyński came forward to ask the question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u272	Minister, Prime Minister Tusk has repeatedly called for no subscription. Do you have any calculations of how much they lost on this State Treasury company? If you do not have such calculations and analyses, please prepare a written reply. Thank you. [[Member of Krzysztof Luft National Radio and Television Council: Mr...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u273	Excuse me, are there any more questions for Minister Luft? I don't see any calls. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u274	Mr. Senator, there are obviously no such calculations, because there can't be, it's untraceable. I can answer you, Mr. Senator, that an indication of the direct connection between these appeals and the decline of the subscription, such as this, would, of course, be quite difficult, but in such a common way it can be said that it could have had some effect. In the critical year 2011, the impact from the subscription fell to the lowest level, probably to PLN 520 million per year, but we managed to stop this trend and significantly increase the subscription revenue, to PLN 750 million last year, but it is actually a big... [[Please respond in writing.]] Please? [[I'm asking you to answer in writing, how exactly...]] But, Senator... [[For a written reply, as in the various years since Donald Tusk began to act as Prime Minister, these influences have evolved in a relationship...]] Mr. Senator, of course we can answer in writing, but I'm telling you right now, there's no way you can do anything like saying it caused... [[But as you can, Minister. I don't expect...]] [[How long before, how long was it after...]] But you know... You know, it's been several years since the drop in proceeds from the subscription. It's not like it's just connected to this one fact... [[You don't understand me, Minister? Please prepare a written reply. What's the big deal?]] Good. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u275	Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u276	I'd like to thank you for saying... I'd like to thank you for saying that as it is at the BBC. Probably not many understood it, but I refer to it, because not only on the website of the National Radio and Television Council can you read what the issue of socialising public media is like on the example of the BBC. You can read about it there, but also in other places. But my question is something else. We will have for a few months a situation in which the Council, the Management Board and the Directorates of the various regional departments will be mentioned. And this situation will last for several months. The people who will be involved in this have, as we know, quite vaguely described in this amendment of the law competence. Please tell us how you feel this can affect the company's condition, the quality of the program, the content, advertisers, etc. Would you mind sharing that reflection with us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u277	Are there any more questions for the Minister? No. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u278	Well, the answer to that question is difficult because it depends on what people will be called to these positions, and we don't know that. And that's a problem that we don't know. I mean, it's not that the problem is that we don't know what specific names are going to be, it's just that this whole process of calling these new people is going to be completely discretionary, and it's going to be beyond the possibility of any kind of name. Well, how do you say that? transparency, other than the possibility for public opinion to observe it. And that's the problem. But, you know, every new board coming to an institution is, of course, a little bit of a problem with these people getting into things for a while. The problem is not that they are new people, but the problem is that the way they are set up does not take into account the possibility of a certain verification towards other bodies and to the public.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u279	Thank you very much, Minister. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Krzysztof Czabański: No.]] No, I understand you're not. Are there any questions for the Minister? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u280	Yes, I have questions for Minister Czabanski. Why didn't the government file a bill? She's important from the government's point of view. After all, the government receives new competences directly here. And that's my first question. And two: what is the government's position, and if there is no government position, what is the department's position towards this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u281	Thank you. Are there any more questions for Minister Czabanski? You're welcome, Senator Terminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u282	Minister, I have a question. It's purely practical. I've tried digging into this subject before. The state in the draft law predicted that the supervisory board of the company has 3 members. On the practical side, I think three members are a bit thin. In practice, large commercial companies usually take a figure from 5 up. Here, for various reasons, you could accept from 3 to 5, which would greatly improve the work of counsel, because in a situation of at least one member of the council could not decide. And my question is this: don't you think it would be appropriate to make such an amendment? And the second amendment, which, in my view, would also be justified, and I would also like to hear the Minister's opinion on it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 4th State limits this law temporarily until 30 June 2016. And as a lawyer, when I read it, I... If it turns out that for various reasons nothing will be passed in return, and this bill will lose its power, then what? Then we return to our starting point, which means that all decisions taken under this law will lose their power and in this place the National Council will have to speak? This will cause whether or not it can cause enormous chaos in public media. And this is my point that perhaps it is not necessary to temporarily restrict this law, and instead in the future, in the new law, simply repeal the provisions of this law. What do you think, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u283	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u284	Thank you very much, Minister, I am glad that you came today and will answer our questions. I'm glad there's a person from the Ministry of Culture, but I'd like to ask immediately if there's also a representative of the treasure minister who will be calling in a few days... [[No, you're Minister Czabanski as a representative of the government.]] There isn't. Then I will address the question to Minister Czabanski. Dear Minister, We know you've been working on a new media bill. We have long discussed in our group, during the committee meeting there were even such statements that in fact few people in Poland have doubts about the need for a new media law. To be honest, I think we would be happy to join this discussion, very important, important and necessary. Tell me what happened that after you published on Facebook some one page of this bill, then it suddenly disappeared and the project did not see the light of day, and we learned that a group of Members proposed to exchange all directors of the board and board and consequently directors of regional branches, i.e. de facto law, a novel, which is just a staff novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u285	Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Minister? If not, I ask the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u286	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for inviting me first to the committee meeting yesterday by Mr Fedorovich and today to the Senate. I have to start by saying that the government hasn't taken any position on this project, so I'm not going to put the government's position on this case, but at the very least my private opinion. As much as they're interesting to you, I'm not the judge anymore. I spent a few years in the media, so I will try to answer your questions according to my knowledge and media experience. I must say that I am very pleased with the declaration of Senator Zdrojewska's willingness to cooperate with this large media law, because after several or even several decades of the existing Act on Public Radio and Television there is a clear need to make a major change, for many reasons, also because at that time the world of the media changed quite radically, and that law could not, by nature, take this into account. But also because we already have many years of experience in the functioning of the current law, also as regards the separation of the media world from the world of politics, that's what I call it. This is because, during the parliamentary debate, and in the Senate, in the Senate, during the debate, I heard various statements about what a wonderful system this is currently in force, competitions, decision levels, but it always happens that at the end there is the same result, any competition is announced, always won by a representative of the Platform, SLD or PSL. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Applause]] That's what it looks like in practice. This is not good practice. And I agree that she's not good. . regardless of the party colors. But we have the experience we have. If we are to discuss the necessary changes in substance, let us not give in to any clichés, but let us be honest with ourselves. We are looking for possibilities of change by amending a large law, among others. This, but the key issue with this bill is the issue of finance. I don't know if you're aware... Minister Lufthansa I don't think he's going to miss this case. I'm not saying he's bad, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, I'll tell you what you're missing, then you'll protest. You're missing out on public media finances. Those media are in danger of crashing. The question was, how much did Tusk's public media appeal and the activities of the Civic Platform cost? You say it can't be calculated. And I'll tell you that you can, because I was president of the Polish Radio at the time. The year-to-year rate was PLN 30 million when it comes to Polish Radio. And I will tell you that for Prime Minister Tusk's appeal Or a suggestion, because it wasn't just an appeal. In the election campaign before the 2007 elections, Polish Radio, so-called "Polish Radio." The big radio paid 30 million PLN. It can be calculated, but let's just leave it at that. The point is, there are no sound financial foundations in public media. And one of the main objectives of the large media law will be to build a new system of financing these media, a system that will protect these media from commercialisation, to ensure independence for these media, independence from the fact that when it comes... You're reproving yourselves here... You are afraid that there will be some changes in regional divisions; Senator Zdrojewska mentioned this. The bill's draft, the novel... However, this is a novel, as I say, so please don't... [[This has nothing to do with the bill.]] This project does not involve personal changes, it sets out a new procedure for appointing authorities. There's no... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Augustyn yesterday, I remember, was reacting that way at the committee meeting. But you were very pleased with the current pluralism of public media. [[No, no.]] What if it isn't? I mean, we talked about 2:00 last night at the committee meeting... [[No, but thank you for recognising the media...]] Very. You said there was a great balance. [[No.]] That's what you said, Mr. Senator. It's a great balance. [[In corrigendum mode.]] And why is there a balance? That's because everyone's unhappy with the media. You said everyone was dissatisfied with the media. And you are dissatisfied, and PiS is dissatisfied, and PSL is dissatisfied. Everyone's... [[Voice from the room: Yes, PiS takes everything...]] That's what happened, so... [[But that doesn't mean it's great that everything is great.]] No, but you said they were... that this is the best proof that they're pluralistic. [[Not everyone can be happy.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Most of them are. And that's important too.]] Then ask the audience what they think. [[75% think well of the media.]] [[On the platform?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Calm down, please. Let the Minister answer the question.]] Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen. Maybe I don't need to get involved in this political thing. Mr. Marshal, I apologize for this fervor, but I speak not on behalf of the government, but as a publicist and a media man for almost half a century and a man of age... I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but I'm not gonna talk to you because... [[A voice from the gym: Why don't we go to New Year's Eve... and I have an invitation for New Year's Eve.]] [[Minister, Senator Fedorovich...]] However, a large media bill takes some time. In particular, the media funding system is a very delicate, very complicated matter, Minister Luft, whom I will once again allow myself to say, to hook up, knows it best, because over the last 6 or 7 years the National Radio and Television Council has announced a new system of financing public media, and so far we do not have it. [[We haven't had him in 15 years.]] Well, we don't, we don't. You are now living as public media 'Cause the National Council is running it. From downloading subscription arrears. From the current subscription... 8% People pay their current subscription. This means that once the subscription arrears are over, from which the public media now live, there will be a financial collapse. This large media law is life for the media. Please accept that at last. Without this large media law, public media in Poland will die. We can forget about them. [[And without a little bill?]] [[We're talking about the little one.]] Yes, you're talking about the little one. I can speak, express my private opinion on this parliamentary initiative. The media, the boards of these media, state institutions, also enshrined in the Constitution, strangely written, like the regulator, which is the National Radio and Television Council, which at the same time appoints public media authorities and regulates the entire media market... That's a contradiction. Unacceptable, nowhere unheard of. And we want to change that. Public media should be removed from the HR power of the National Radio and Television Council. And they will be removed from this power, as you know. And in order to carry out this major reform, various public institutions, e.g. The National Council, but also the public media authorities, must cooperate in the transformations referred to here, rationally and in substance. These companies must be carefully inspected after 7 years of management by one political group. They have to be seen because their condition is terrible. Their personnel status... People have been thrown into leasing companies, material workers are treated as employees on trash contracts. And this is the reality of the media, of which you, some of you, are forgetting in today's discussion. We need to change all this, fix the media. And we need to bring about a situation where the media themselves, their executives, will also want this repair. And such leadership will, as I understand it, be appointed by the Minister of Treasury. But what are they going to be like? Don't ask me that. [[Applause]] [[That's good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u287	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. [[Voice from the room: There will be a written reply for Senator Dobrzyński...]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Fedorovich was the first to speak. [[Fedor, fight!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u288	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like you to take tonight and last night very seriously, because... [[It's only 3:00.]] ...we found ourselves in a situation we haven't been in in a very, very long time. And the situation is difficult for all of us. I remember the same thing happened 10 years ago. Usually when the PiS takes over, we have to sit at night and before New Year's. I don't know if it's so... [[It's 3:00.]] Don't bother me, Mr... You can tell yourself that later, okay? [[We're catching up.]] So... I'm saying this as a man who absolutely disagrees with this. This, Mr. Marshal, is some nonsense, so that the serious senior senators, the chosen of the nation, who deserved this choice, some who have been quite beaten up by life, will sit here for hours at night. But if we are already facing such an important issue, then I, Minister, as a media man for almost fifty years, as a media victim and a victim of media policy, allow me to say that what we are working on today is some kind of legislative puriazum. About two years ago, Ukrainian parliamentarians came to us, who at a meeting with representatives of the Sejm committee, of course composed of representatives of the PIS and all other parties, asked us to show them how to change state media or national in civil and public media. And then, at the multi-hour conference held in the international meeting room in the Sejm, we pointed to our solutions, which until today were valid and very beautiful, because democratic. We were talking about the main constitutional regulator, which is the National Council, how it is chosen, and the success of democracy is that the Sejm points to two members of the Council, the Senate points to one, and the President points to two. Unfortunately, there are also... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, would you please ask your colleagues... [[Order in the courtroom, please!]] No. It's not about peace... All right. We have pointed to regulations that have been created in recent times, for example, to refer to the supervisory boards of persons designated by universities, creative associations and creative organisations. We tried, of course, which did not quite work out, and what we talked about in this Chamber, so that it would all be as transparent and transparent as possible. The media bill is necessary and we've been talking about it for the last few years. Let me remind you that we have tried this bill twice. We have failed to develop it for various reasons. The first time it was a political cause. Mr. Napieralski is here as a witness that President Kaczyński, after talking to him, stopped the bill. We worked together at the time, with the support of the SLD, of course. The second time almost everything was ready and public money was to be spent on the bill, but there was a crisis that caused the work to stop. And for the years to come, it was indeed not possible to draw up this law because there was no such political will. And all of a sudden, we're getting a bill that completely destroys everything. It's a little novel. There's words in there. Of course, it is not in the draft law that it is to be national media in the future, which does not sound good. This does not sound good in the world or in Europe. And Europe protests through its associations against all of this. Of course, we don't pay attention to it, because we never pay attention to such things or are outraged that someone is trying to tell us something. And if, for example, there is an unconstitutional record that says that only Polish citizens have the right to take part... to run for specific positions... We, of course, are breaking the European directive on the movement of citizens. In this situation, the Minister will most likely speak on this subject. I don't know if there's gonna be a debate on this. I don't want to talk too long, because a lot of important things have been said here. It fell here in this Chamber and last night at this night's committee meeting, which I led to believe that the Minister of the Treasury would be more appropriate to appoint a chief than a politically independent body such as the National Council or the Supervisory Board. I'm asking who's gonna be that man. At the beginning of that speech, I wrote myself this one word... We don't trust each other at all. If we do not trust each other, we do not trust these structures and those whom we call. If we act in such a way that we undermine trust in the most outstanding times of our country's citizens, who occupy their seats in these companies, then there will be a problem. I agree with my colleagues who say it can be selective... There may be less room for President Andrzej Duda and more room for Mr Petru. It happens, but we were told yesterday at the committee meeting that if you look at it globally or in the longer term, you can see that it's evening up. We'll never be happy. And I wouldn't want to see two words coming into society about this little novel. Do you know what they call her? Some, Mr. Marshal, call it a setup, which has already gone down, and there are those who say it's a momentary. After yesterday's question to the applicant, why are we doing this and what is the public interest? Before the introduction of this large law, which, as has been said, and these are the words of Minister Czabański today, will be published in April. In order to fire all these people... I don't know the procedures yet, but you're probably gonna have to pay some serious checks. Maybe the Minister will answer me. I don't know, maybe in writing. Are there gonna be checks for these people being fired? Will those newly appointed, who are likely to be in office from tomorrow or January 2nd, and who do not have an appeal procedure, and you will be able to cancel them... not you, the treasure minister at any time, have paid their checks? Isn't this some kind of guy thing? I plead the same words that fell out of your mouth as charges against us. I don't think I'm a flawless man. Of course, I, on behalf of the club, will certainly present this more important than me, and I am in favour of rejecting this law absolutely without any amendment. I would like to add one more thing: in the Senate this debate takes place in a cultural way, yes, in a cultural way. I wanted to prepare myself, and for 10 years I was in the bureau of a committee that only deals with media and culture. And I must tell you that I was sitting in the Parliament Hall, up there, and my great concern was that what was happening in the Seym was only in connection with this law among young people, among the young Members that I saw, for whom it was a complete novelty, that suddenly in this country, which is a model of freedom for Central Europe, something like that happens at night, on New Year's Eve... [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I also care about your New Year's Eve plans. It's been ten minutes.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Thank you very much. I'm disciplined, I'm concluding, I'm going to see a doctor because my blood pressure is rising, and I wish you a healthy Christmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u289	A lot of health, Mr. Senator. Senator Gawel, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u290	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, we have to translate. And it's important to talk about it as often as possible. What are we talking about? This dividing line must be visible in order for society under democratic conditions to make an opinion on what is happening in Poland in recent days or weeks. Various historical references could be mentioned here today. But I'm not going to talk about the 18th century because I'm not going to insult anyone. It's like he said here. Just now Senator Fedorovich, this discussion in the Senate takes place on a level which, I would say, is a senate level. Because what happens in the Sejm when it comes to the level of public debate is not optimistic. Ladies and gentlemen, let us look at history, for example, in the 16th century. Of course, we need to understand that there were other conditions at the time, a different nation than today, because then there was talk of a noble nation. They were trying to build... Mr. Marshal also looks at me as a historian... They tried to build a system that was later called noble democracy. We know well that later in history, especially in communist history, he was buried completely and only those things that were wrong were drawn. Today we should return to the main idea of the noble nation, the idea of republic, the idea of republicanism. All this was included in the idea of creating state institutions, in which one of the basic institutions was parliament or since 1493. The Sejm, i.e. de facto since the reign of Jan Olbracht. I remind you that such disputes, although historically far away, about how you should function, were very alive. From this great idea of a republic based on strong pillars One of these pillars was the king, the other was the parliament. Unfortunately, it was not possible to create a strong state, because in the early 17th century there was a process, which, as I say, in the long history period ended with the state's distribution. This system from this beautifully promising democracy has turned into an oligarchy, that is, a few governments. Demos and kratos, the old Greek concepts that guided the Polish nobility in building this country of freedom, were replaced by the concept of oligarchy, i.e. actually access to goods produced by the nation, or, more broadly, the whole community... The point was that they owned the goods of individual groups. In our opinion, after 26 years of change in Poland today we are faced with a similar question: is Poland supposed to rule the people through democratic procedures, or is Poland supposed to strengthen a certain state of oligarchy? We believe that these 26 years, and especially these recent elections, show that a large part of this nation or society wanted to change. And these are the facts that we all accept here. No one in this group, I hope, is questioning that. On election day, when Law and Justice were so successful, unforeseen by many commentators, much of the media Now I'm talking about public media, or at least we have this impression and our electorate, the end of the world, has announced that here come to power the frivolous. As one of the respected commentators of journalists on TV Info on December 23rd, the day before Christmas Eve, said: wild people and a crime group came to power. [[And the president is a puppet.]] Excuse me, but are the members of the criminal group sitting here? What level of discussion is acceptable in the media that actually use the political baton today as not the fourth power, but the first? We don't want to create the PiS media, that's not the point. The point is to finally start a serious discussion, which many of you are already talking about today, about how the media should continue to be built. We envy the British, but the BBC's board is 9 and is called by the government. Of course, there are also representatives of those who pay the subscription, but this structure looks completely different. I would ask you not to make us into some kind of intellectual wall, people who have no idea of anything, people who are doomed to some margin in Europe, because they are not. The media unfortunately rules irrational emotions of people, and we see that. I have not heard in public media a serious comment or serious discussion about what has been happening in recent weeks. Why doesn't anyone say that some political forces want to lead to anarchy in the state? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] If a well-known politician urges judges in Poland to strike, what else do you call it as not an attempt to anarchize? Ladies and gentlemen, I really think that it is in the media that this discussion should take place in a serious way and in such a way as not to confuse people in their minds. Because now there's a mess in the head. [[Voice from the room: That's the point.]] We are in favour of democracy and we are in favour of our Republican ideas. I think everything's gonna be okay, and don't be surprised it's going so fast. Long live the Republic! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u291	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u292	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To begin with, I would like to quote Robert Winnicki's words from the Kukiz Movement, 15, who said in the Sejm: The draft law on public media is brutally honest, brutally honest. Public media in Poland have never been public media, and for almost all these 25 years they have been government media. And then, briefly characterizing the public media, he has already added a very harsh, harsh assessment: "The worse these media can no longer be, worse than now, when it reigns in them, you can say boldly, urban propaganda companyed with the face of Thomas Lisa. Strong words, aren't they? And actually at this point, I could finish my own assessment of public media, but at the same time, on the basis of this strong assessment, I would like to point out precisely the need to repair them. It is not necessary to be a specialist to confirm the words of Mr Winnicki that the public media were and are the media of the Civic Platform. So I'm going to ask rhetorically: after eight years of your governments, could they be different? In this situation, does the Law and Justice seek only to take power in the media, but does it feel that this situation needs to be settled a little bit? Speaking of which, as Minister Czabański just said, these media save from bankruptcy. It is worth checking that only 8% The subscription is now paid. It is true that the draft of the current amendment to the Act on Radio and Television, called a technical or small amendment, not a set-up, is only to temporarily transfer the appointment of the public media management to the Minister of Treasury as owner. So no longer would the National Radio and Television Council elect members of the boards and supervisory boards, as is the case so far, but they will be appointed by the Minister of the Treasury. The Minister of Treasury will also appoint three supervisory boards of Polish Television and Polish Radio. Right now, these bodies are counting seven people on TV, radio 6. The TV board is supposed to be single, as it is now, it's worked out. The same will be true in Polish Radio; it is currently a 2-person management board. TV and radio field offices will continue to be headed by directors appointed by the presidents, but in these branches they will be liquidated. These are important supervisory boards. I will no longer refer to the duties of the Minister of the Treasury, who, pending the appointment of new authorities on the basis of the amended rules, will be responsible to the Sejm for the activities of Polish Television and Polish Radio, as companies of the State Treasury in 100% and not, so far, companies of commercial law. This new media organization, of course, is the most interesting one. But at the moment we have the first stage of the reform of public media, which will aim to establish a system of national media, i.e. to transform the Polish Television, Polish Radio, regional radio stations, as well as the Polish Press Agency, from companies of the State Treasury, are to create cultural institutions, which was widely motivated by the rapporteur Jan Maria Jackowski. As far as we know, the management of these institutions, national media, will be chosen by the National Media Council. That's good news. They will be composed of experts from various fields of culture and art. I will add, what could already be concluded from the words of Minister Czabański, that there will actually be two laws, one will be primarily about the mission of national media, and the other will be about financing these media. What's with the changes? I'm going back to that basic question. And even so that public television and Polish Radio do not have to be commercialised, but they took care of e.g. production of films, programs about Polish history and culture, and these are the statutory tasks of these institutions. This is their principle of missionaryness in the sphere of culture and information. For years, public media have become a party to a political dispute rather than a mission, and that is unacceptable. There is no reliable, objective information in public media. The National Council of Radiophony and Television, and this has already been said here, headed by its president, Jan Dworak, is setting up supervisory boards for public media, and these supervisory boards are often calling people directly from the government or parliament to govern public television. That's why we have this wave of emotion in the media today. It is said that we are in a state of civil war, that we have a dictatorship in Poland, a leader for Hitler's prayer, a coup d'état of state... All this indicates that journalists are completely dependent on those who tell them, completely dependent on political decision-makers, media managers and, in many cases, on foreign capital. With the current monopoly of liberal and postmodern ideologies, there are huge manipulations in the media, social engineering on a gigantic scale. And unfortunately, public media have also been involved in this kind of cultural revolution. The degree of aggression that is pouring out of public television is unacceptable in public media even greater aggression is seen than in private media, although public media have a greater duty to maintain neutrality and objectivity. It is the public media that act as if they wanted to bring people to the streets, as if they wanted to bring about a kind of civil war, and that is why we need media that will calmly explain the situation, calm the social moods, stop frowning and not stand clearly on one side of this political dispute. Finally, I would like to confirm that the reform of public media is part of the profound changes in the state, the changes that society expects, the changes announced by the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right, the changes that the voters gave us power for. These will be the changes and reforms that Poles are waiting for. Let's not scare people with civil war, let's not scare people with other threats, e.g. that when families receive 500 PLN per child per month, it will cause the budget to collapse and the rest of the citizens will go with the bags. These are ideological slogans that must not be repeated, and this atmosphere of horror coming from public media. only confirms that these public media need to be changed from scratch. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u293	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u294	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! The subject, as one of my predecessors said, or actually everyone, on both sides of this room we have said so, is really important and serious. First of all, because of the essence, how important public media play in public life, how important they are to citizens. This is confirmed not only in the level of confidence studies. I would really wish for every government to enjoy confidence like the public media, although I have just learned that they are sowing evil and aggression. That's not true. The viewers don't think so, the viewers like the media, despite their obvious flaws. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me speak. Mr. Marshal, I'm a little disturbed by you gentlemen. [[I'm asking you to calm down.]] Meanwhile, we're not talking about public media reform right now, because what you've offered us, again at night, as usual, without prior notice... When we were in the meeting and talking, they were discussing other important things, and you were sending information to the mailbox after 10:00 p.m. [[Voice from the room: A matter of urgency.]] This is a matter of great urgency for you, Senator, and I want to tell you that I hate it when I have to work at this rate for no reason, and in this case there was no such reason. [[This is an urgent matter.]] There was no reason for such haste. We asked these questions at 2:00 a.m. at the committee meeting... [[That's what they pay us for.]] [[Exactly.]] ...and we didn't find out why it was, what's the reason for it. My colleagues have asked me this question many times here, and we still don't know why you can't wait these few months. Are these friends of yours? They're gonna be called dudes in a minute, and, more or less, names are already on the press, after the media. Couldn't they wait these few months to take over in these companies or in the public media? I'd also like to draw attention to a case, because I've caught on to it myself. You are still presenting a very negative picture of public media, and you are forgetting that public media it is not only a television which can be defended, because the viewers like it, but it is also the Polish Radio, which for years has enjoyed not only great trust, not only has great merits for Polish culture, but also for which I have not heard any accusations here. So I ask why you want to change so rapidly the newly appointed authorities on Polish Radio, as on TV. [[Poles are waiting for this. Everyone.]] You tell me the Poles are waiting for this. I'll tell you, I don't think that's what they're waiting for in Wroclaw. Because I was... [[They're waiting.]] Sir, Senator PiS has lost to me in my constituency. If I'm standing here, I mean... [[He's a gentleman, and you're a lady.]] No, as it happens, you have no senator in Wroclaw who would belong to the PiS and win in a one-mandate district. And... [[But we have good ministers.]] Let me finish. Mr. Marshal, you're disturbing me... [[Please, let me finish the senator.]] Yeah, I'll be right... [[Voice from the gym: But in the campaign...]] I'll be right... [[But you have a good name.]] [[Voice from the hall: New Year's Eve yes...]] Sir, I put my duty before New Year's Eve today, which is why I'm sitting here doing my duty. And returning to my beloved Wrocław, in which New Year's Eve will be held on the market today by public television, I would like to wish all my voters all the best in the new year, but I would also like it not to be the worst year in recent years for Polish media. Because what you've done right now is a purely human assassination attempt on the media. It was in Wrocław, on the Wrocław market, on a huge, several thousandth demonstration, which filled the entire Salt Square, in addition to the slogans concerning the Court, the most common slogan was the slogan "Free media." [[There were only 300 people there.]] Think about it in this New Year's Eve atmosphere, what does free media mean, free media is media... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...or free media... [[Calm down, please.]] ...whether free media are media appointed one-man by the treasure minister, Mr. David Jackiewicz, who is my colleague from Wrocław, but there are no... [[Please, he's from Wroclaw.]] Yeah, it's from Wrocław, but I've never heard of any of his media competence or any of his cultural competence, and we've talked a lot about culture here today, haven't we? So I'm putting you in this mood, that's under consideration. Perhaps the few months in which it will happen, apart from the devastation you will do, often among excellent professionals, replacing them with your specialists, will be useful for you to consider whether these 3 months or these 6 months will not be used to try really And here a few of those voices came from you. To create a media law that will give media space not only to the nation but to society as a whole. For in our society we have not only one nation, other nations are also, representatives of other nations are in our society. That's one thing. Secondly, the point is that different options can appear, as is happening on public television at the moment. And I hope that you will succeed in what has not yet succeeded in any television, that is to say that television will really be objective, which I do not believe very much either. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u295	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome. [[We need to get the dress ready and put it on the market.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u296	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister Czabański promised us Inflanty: a beautiful, comprehensive bill... [[What?]] [[Sienkiewicz's year.]] He promised us Inflanty, and right now we have a concrete bill that only deals with personalities. It cuts down the entire management of radio and television, public radio, as well as a little later, later supervisory boards and boards of regional radio stations in their entirety, regardless of how we evaluate individual media. We would like to say in this poetry: Poles, do not sleep, plarum play! [[Seneca.]] [[Sienkiewicz.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] The opposition... [[He's got a voice.]] ...in fact, there's no argument anymore. We don't have movement. We were pressed against the wall. I want you, most of you, to know what situation we're in. This will also affect your situation. [[But we've been in opposition for eight years.]] I'm not saying you'll be an opposition, but it's very possible that you will. [[We were.]] This is a bad situation. That's not good. We have a comprehensive view of PiS's intentions at the moment. We might have thought that PiS would be doing this or that he would stop somewhere, that some rational arguments would reach the decision-makers in PiS, but right now we have clarity. You started with the Constitutional Tribunal to bind him, so that he could not make any decision assessing the constitutionality of the laws, and rightly, from your point of view, this is where it was necessary to begin, because the next laws are obviously unconstitutional. The law on civil service is unconstitutional, and we discussed it, and we pointed out that. Of course, there was also an earlier law on the Constitutional Court, and now there is another non-constitutional law, so to speak, the crown of this action. ..about public media. But if you think that's enough to shut the press down, you're wrong. These threats to individual journalists that were heard from PiS politicians are a clue to which direction you will continue. But you're not gonna intimidate all the journalists. You will not deprive them of their right to vote and their right to self-esteem. [[We don't want that.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because in order to do this effectively, you would have to go back to the methods of old times, and censorship will never come back, even if this dynamic is... if you keep going this way. And this one, the next one, the bill, the crown of these few statutes, as if showing... Senator Gaweł referred to the 15th century, to the nobility democracy, to the republic... [[Until the 16th century.]] ...to the 16th century, yes, to a republic close to our heart, in which, after all, the king was limited by the noble democracy, by the Sejm and to that... [[We'll be right back.]] ...when the king broke the cardinal's law, citizens had the right to enter the Confederacy. It was their right to defend their freedoms, to defend what was then called cardinal rights. Let me remind you that we have a picture of the whole thing. I hope that what I said creates a complete historical analogy, because, of course, history does not repeat itself. And the intentions of Law and Justice are clear to me. This is the wrong way, wrong way. This is a suppression of criticism. If it's all gonna affect the journalists, we're gonna protest. Poland has been a democratic state for too long so that you can shut your mouth to critics so that you can shut your mouth to journalists. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[In corrigendum mode...]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Szymanski in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u297	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz said this: you, representatives of the PiS, in the plural plural, that is also my concern. You want to suppress freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of journalists. I make it clear: I have always been, I am, and I will be in favour of freedom of expression. I will defend the freedom of expression of journalists. It is not my intention to act, which you assigned to me, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u298	Thank you, Senator. Senator Dowhan. [[Wait a minute. I still have a comeback, Mr. Senator.]] Mr. Marshal, there is no return in case of correction. [[After the vote, we'll know...]] Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but there's no return mode. You're welcome, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u299	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, we will. It's a very positive voice, although I don't want to argue with you anymore, because I'm not going to convince you, you're going to vote anyway. Like the military, you don't get any arguments. It is only a pity that we will be debating late today because this debate is one-sided. I had other plans for that period. Earlier, when the calendar was arranged, no one considered that we would meet at this meeting on New Year's Eve, no one considered that we would debate these laws in such a way. Taking advantage of the opportunity that I'm here and I can't be in my family. Green Mountain... I have an adult son from today, and he's turning 18. Now I should be with him and celebrating, because it's one of those days when a father should be with his son. I'd like to apologize very much, Dominic, for having to... [[Mr. Senator...]] I say it, you don't have to hear it. You can leave because you're outraged all the time. [[Quiet, please.]] I would like to apologize to you, Dominic, for the behaviour of some senators who cannot respect the decent conditions of cooperation, debate, conversation and negotiation. [[Applause]] Maybe they're not taught, and maybe they have to do it against their will, because not everyone... It's from private conversations. I'm sorry, Dominic, that... [[Mr. Senator, please apologize to your constituents...]] [[Quiet, please.]] I apologize to you, and I say, "Don't go this way, my dear son, don't make an example of this senator, because this mode of debate doesn't fit." [[Applause]] I have taught you to respect people unjustly from whether they believe in God or not, whether they are on the left or on the right. And you will keep it as I do. I have respect for you, too, even though you don't have respect for me. It's a pity you don't express it any other way in the Senate. If you had respect for the people, for the words that fall here, perhaps you'd behave differently. And there's no such respect here. Please, son, don't take the example of people like that, don't repeat such behavior, and do what you've done so far, because you're a model of a good man. I wish you all the best because you're turning 18 right now. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Wish concert.]] Yeah, a wish concert. Don't take an example of these nightly considerations, of these nightly deliberations of the committee between 2:00 and 4:00 a.m., of these votes before Christmas Eve, those things that don't come to us, opinions... Negotiation, consultation, legislators, these are all unnecessary things, these are things that don't have to be, these are just opinions, it's just your whim, the whim of a kid that suddenly got into the blocks, and these blocks are about to be taken away from them, so today you want to turn everything upside down. You can't do that. Do you think power is given once and for all? Some people have said that before. As I mentioned about Tomasz Lisa's program, the room suddenly came to life. I asked what this program would be replaced with. Because a few million people are watching it. I didn't get an answer to that question. Or, for example, Is that what Thomas Lisa's show is gonna be like now? That's what the editors are gonna do, that's what they're gonna ask... [[The senator presents a board with the inscription "TO YOU HAVE A LIVE PIS" and photos of Katarzyna Heyke, Samuel Pereira and Jan Pospieszalski]] Yes, Mr. Marshal... Will there be an empty chair, as in this program, for the representative of the opposition, whether it be from the Modern or from the Platform or from the PSL? Because there's always been a chair for the PiS in this program, but unfortunately, you didn't take advantage of it. [[There was no invitation.]] [[He's good.]] The invitations were, the invitations were. To conclude, because I don't want to take the time for some to make it to New Year's Eve, because their last means of transport are running away, I'm going to say, of course, I'm not going to vote in favour of this bill. I have this message to the audience: actually, it's really happening. Hello, this is the Senate! Hello, this is Earth! Please do not adjust the receivers! Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yesterday... and today you resent us.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u300	Please take the floor of Senator Klich. I have a hot request not to disturb those who are taking the floor in the discussion. And to Senator Dowhan, I have this remark: you have been prolonging the committee meetings and the deliberations. We, as Law and Justice, never in our previous term of office needed a break for the dinner you tried to make. You're welcome, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please. Quiet, please.]] He'll be in a different convention than my previous speaker, although I bow to the clarity of his speech and his sense of humor. I've been thinking all day about how to define the differences between one part of the room, between the PiS and the Civic Platform in this room, about our attitude towards public media. Senator Żaryn, as we remember from yesterday's conversation, presented a pretty good distinction between us when it comes to our attitude towards upbringing. It seems to me that the way we deal with public media determines our attitude towards democracy. Perhaps this is what I should have been talking about when there was a discussion about whether or not the Constitutional Tribunal was incapacitated, but this package of cases that has recently appeared on our agenda, starting with harakiri at the Constitutional Court, by destroying civil service and ending with an assassination of public media, empowers me to try to capture this difference. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the state that you so often speak of your powers as a result of your electoral victory, as a result of the fact that you have reached a majority in both chambers of parliament, you also have your own president, act and rule in an unlimited manner, assign yourself too many rights resulting from these electoral results. I am convinced that your concept of democracy is a misconception, although such concepts of democracy do happen. Rather, they occur east of our border and rather in countries that do not have such a fantastic democratic tradition. This concept of yours is nothing more than a belief that democracy is the rule of the majority. We think a little differently. We do not question the right of anybody to rule, having a majority, but we believe that democracy is the rule of the majority limited by law, and that the constitution is the fundamental limiter for the power itself. We also believe that from the point of view of civil liberties, human rights, political powers that every human being and every citizen has, the greatest threat is the self-will of power. We also believe that public media play an important role in this respect. They cannot be government, because then they make the right to speak, also the right to obtain information, reliable information that every citizen has, will be threatened, that freedom of speech will be threatened. We believe that your idea, which you are presenting today, is a threat to freedom of speech in Poland. We believe that your idea of breaking down the existing security system on the electronic media market, which has existed for about 20 years, could end badly for the future of public media in Poland. We are afraid that if one of you really believes in the transitional period mentioned by Senator Jackowski, that this law defines only and only for a transitional period the competence of the Minister of the Treasury to elect new authorities is in deep error. But I assume most of you don't believe that. Because limiting the powers of the National Radio and Television Council is really making this body a fake. This body will only be a facade, behind this facade there will be almost nothing. That's one thing. Secondly, we believe that the end of the term of office of the current authorities, which you politically justify, due to political origin, will end badly for the whole model of public media. In this new model of public media actually the main specialists in these media will not be people of culture, will not be people of the academy, will not be an expert on the subject, only will there be a treasure minister who should by nature know about the management and not the functioning of the media market. That's what we're really afraid of. We are also concerned that this law is unconstitutional, yes, it is unconstitutional, at least as regards two articles of the Constitution still in force in our country. It's an art. 54, which states that freedom of expression and the acquisition and dissemination of information is ensured for everyone, and art. 213 fully describing the role, meaning and meaning of the existence of the National Radio and Television Council, including paragraph 1. 1 referring to the National Council as a guardian of the public interest in the media market. I am convinced, gentlemen, that, regardless of what they are called, whether they are a worse sort of journalists, whether they are agents of influence or otherwise, European journalists will protest, European broadcasters will protest, human rights organisations and citizens will protest. Because the Council of Europe exists to protect what is enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which we are signatories to, because our authorities are bound by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted in the 1940s, and to these standards, we must comply with these principles in Poland. If someone does not follow them, there will be further letters from the European Commission, the next speeches from the European Broadcasting Union, the European Federation of Journalists and Reporters Without Borders, the next speeches from the OSCE. What does all this lead to? To weaken our country's international position, and I don't think anyone in this room will admit that they would want to weaken Poland's position in the world, because such action would be an act to the detriment of our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u302	Please take the floor of Professor Senator Stanisławek.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u303	Thank you very much. I am not as dry a speaker as Senator Klich, but I would like to say that we all understand democracy the same way, but how to reach it a little differently. [[We already have democracy.]] I'd like to talk about the media and their mission. Unfortunately, I don't see this mission in the media. Under your management, these media have lost target. I'd like to start by presenting an example. My wife and I were going to Italy. We stopped at Vienna, had dinner, got a room. I turned on the TV, and I look, and the crisps commercial starts. At first the same as in Poland, but still completely different... A worked farmer plants potatoes, then collects these potatoes; they show the hands of this farmer It's worked, it's cracked. And there's a sign that says: "Our chips." It doesn't matter what company our Austrian potatoes are made up of. After that commercial, it was about a craftsman making a knife. But it wasn't just a movie that showed that you were making a knife. This knife landed in an exclusive shop in Vienna for a lot of money. It was about the only studio in Austria that made knives with an old method. I'm thinking, well, it's respect for work, it's a mission. And what are our commercials? Happy fun, young people... Is this a mission? I am very sorry, but you introduced the law of 4 February 2014 that you can advertise beer. Wherever we look now, there's a beer commercial everywhere, it's pouring. Is this democracy and raising young people? It's not. I'm not gonna believe this. I am very glad that you are Minister Radziwiłł, because I will talk about advertising painkillers. Do you think that such a number of advertising for painkillers is permitted in Europe? Is that where you buy those painkillers at every station and every grocery store? Is this a democratic action that improves the quality of our society? It's not. Advertising of dietary supplements I'll skip it. I'll skip the junk food ads. Someone asked me why it was such a rush. I've counted the days... We're the fifty-nineth day of the Senate. Each government works after 100 days of work. And that's normal. Right? This government wants to succeed, and we want to help it. Finally, I feel sorry for all of us for being here today. At the same time, thank you for... sorry, I didn't see Minister Luft. I'm so sorry. I'd like to apologize to the Minister for skipping that title yesterday, but I didn't know that this was your position as editor... And that was 15 years ago. So, when I go back to the point, I want us to think about what we're defending and what direction we're going in. What do we want to tell the public? Not just words, not just words. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u304	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u305	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! We just heard the voice of a professor, a doctor who said the government's been working so many days. But we don't have the government's effects, we don't. If the government had worked, it would have prepared laws that we wouldn't have had the problems we've been reporting from the very beginning as soon as we started the meeting. They would be well-informed, consulted, with the attached expertise. Then, indeed, a serious debate could take place, and there would also be time for this famous and, in my opinion, a highly valued senate reflection. Unfortunately, it's not there. There is joyous poetry, i.e. the so-called. the contributions, which unfortunately are the implementation of the darkest scenario from which you refused when people gathered spontaneously under the Constitutional Tribunal and said: today the Court, tomorrow the media, the day after tomorrow the civil service. You guys said no to that. And what does it turn out to be? That it wasn't a prophecy, it was anticipating your steps. You weren't afraid of the Court because you were going after 500+, of cases as obvious as the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and the increase of the tax-free amount, just because you were going after the assassination of constitutional institutions, the public service and the National Radio and Television Council. That's the problem. Unfortunately, as we have said, opinions are evident, these are opinions which are unambiguous, these are opinions of authorities. If we, lawyers, reject authority and say that applicants who are legal dilemmas who have absolutely no idea of the law, have an opinion and say that an opinion indicating a conflict with EU law is not important because they have an opinion... What is this approach to the law? Ladies and gentlemen, we are the legislative body, we are the Higher Chamber of Parliament to improve the law. We've been on this mission so far. What's going on today? Ladies and gentlemen, I have an irrefutable impression... I was sometimes in a state of war, as if I were addressing the court in a certain way, and I said that I hope that the court will not behave according to the principle of the Vieniedictov dorm of Soviet times. Academic Wieniadiktov said And that was the principle of the criminal trial. That a court hearing is a solemn form of approval of an indictment. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the same thing is happening here, the situation is the same, the same. The application is in effect and the Senate is to formally approve it without any means of... [[No corrections.]] Fortunately, this trial, which is being held here and attended by defenders, is open. And that gets to society. Society will properly assess, Poles will properly assess your actions and independent journalists will give you a laurel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u306	Please take the floor of Senator Zarin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u307	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, sir, for calling my name. I hesitated for a long time whether to submit to the debate or not. It was your opinion, but it was your opinion as well, so thank you. Namely, you're right, Mr. Senator, what's different is, among other things. Presumably defining the concept of 'democracy'. [[Yes, sir.]] And from that moment on our ways, as in the 22nd paragraph, the ways of Yossarian and a certain master, who did not pretend to be sick, and died, parted. Well, they're splitting up because there's no alternative that you've drawn. The honourable Senator Zientarski then continued this thread It's either democracy or the self-will of power. Well, my definition of democracy I hope it's not just mine that's a little more complicated. To present it in this context, the context of this particular law that we are talking about today, I will go back to history, just like Senator Gaweł, but from the 16th century we will move to the second half of the 17th century. The present form of our statehood, or nobility democracy, experienced a very acute crisis especially after the departure and abdication of King John Kazimierz. The reason and the abdication, and this trip. I'm talking about flooding first, and then I'm going to talk about effect. It was that they were created very hard, as Professor Jan Dzięgielewski calls it, Facts, i.e. such structures, which were more or less formal, which were a part of the democratic system, but de facto the same system was destroyed. The only factor that could save this reality is power, and in that case the king's power. This kingship then needed such inner strength, inner support. John III Sobieski was the king who tried to do it. These Magnatian actions destroy, dispel the phenomenon of the destruction of democracy. And that's what I'm thinking. That's what I'm talking about. It is not only that it is clear today, among other things, what functions inside what we call public media. Authority I believe in good intentions, including Minister Luft. Which had this fuse, an element that protects the transparency of these public media, their multi-durture, pluralism, that is rather the power of the royal power of Korybut Wiśniowiecki, rather than Jan III Sobieski. I mean, power that couldn't handle it, although perhaps her intentions were good. She has not dealt with significant phenomena in public media that deform democracy. Therefore, our actions are not taken in the name of self-will of power, but in the name of defending this democracy in public media. What, in my opinion, is the most fatal feature in the public media system? Well, I'm sure this list won't be exhausted, certainly... maybe, sorry, not for sure. Perhaps I will not give the most important features in public media and eliminate their actual democracy, which was to be secured by the National Council of Radio and Television. Well, one of the characteristics of public media distribution is not exactly called She can't be called exactly. And not quite the explainable power of internal structures in the media, which were surrounded by a certain ability to take over this public microphone. Among other things, they tried to describe the media, right-wing of course, and above all Mrs Dorota Kania, among others, in the Resort children. I don't know, I can't tell if this is the most important feature, but no one will tell me that it doesn't exist and no one will tell me that this feature is a guarantee of the democraticity of the media in Poland. On the other hand, this is a fantasy that destroys democracy. [[Applause]] The second such feature that exists in the media And again, I can't prove it; the power of this feature is so great that it can't be proved. This is what we call family-cousin financial arrangements that exist in public media. Anyone who touched the public media knows that, and you know that too. If you do not know this, I invite you to have a private conversation with Mr. Krzysztof Czabański on behalf of Mr. Krzysztof Czabański, to Mr.Luft on behalf of Mr.Luft, with coffee, find out what it looks like. Each of us, who has touched these public media, knows that the situation in them is totally unhealthy, just fictitious, just eliminating the democraticity of these public media. That's why, Mr. Senator, I agree with you that evil is the self-will of power, good is the defence of democracy, and we are just trying In particular, on the example of these two laws discussed today, this can be proved by bringing Poland as a country close to us, loved to come out of different features, both those coming out of the Polish People's Republic and those already created on the basis of your 8-year-old governments, and to create a democratic Poland by name, by fact, by reality. You will account for this, I hope, because we are in danger of a situation which, in turn, should be important for you today, that we can now build new realities. Then account for it, but first give us the right to eliminate yours. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u308	I owe the floor to Senator Klich, who wanted to speak in order to present a reply. Yes? [[No, in the second round, Mr. Marshal.]] Oh, yeah, like that. Please take the floor of Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u309	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The whole debate that is taking place today on the media is about one thing, because one is the aim of the changes you are proposing, namely that the media should be governed by the government. This is very dangerous not from the perspective of the present, but from the perspective of the future. How do we know what government is going to be like after the PiS government? And the bill is ready. Yes? If we once submit the media to politicians and politicians, it will be very difficult ever to change. And that's what I'm considering. I'd like to ask you a question. I know that today I will not get an answer to this question, because I did not get an answer to this question either during today's proceedings, nor yesterday's or Christmas Eve's, nor the day before Christmas Eve. But I'm gonna ask you this question because I've been obliged by the voters to ask me in e-mails, text messages, and personally. What makes the Senate proceed on Christmas Eve by 4:00 a.m., afternoon or almost New Year's Eve over laws that do not concern the security of the state, its immediate threat? What's the rush? Why are we in such a hurry? I am asking this question on behalf of the voters who voted for me, for my colleagues, i.e. As you say with the mouth of your representatives On behalf of the voters of a worse sort. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u310	Please take the floor of Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u311	I did not say, Professor, that you want to establish authoritarian governments in Poland. [[You didn't say that...]] I don't believe that either. But there are several different shades of democracy between liberal democracy and authoritarian governments. I'm sending you back to perhaps as well-known authors as Schumpeter, Huntington or, finally, Larry Diamond from Stanford University. I believe that you are moving towards electoral democracy according to these classifications, i.e. one who does not respect civil liberties and rights as they should be respected in the Western tradition. I believe that you are moving towards a democracy that uses electoral procedures, but which will not provide a level playing field for different political groups and political environments in the elections in the future. I didn't say you were headed for Putin. I didn't even say you were headed for Lukashenka. I am afraid that you are going towards a model that neither Schumpeter nor Huntington nor Larry Diamond described, because it was created quite recently, namely towards democracy à la Viktor Orbán, to which the intellectuals supporting the Law and Justice have repeatedly admitted. This is where I want to say, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, that you will not make Budapest in Warsaw. [[How do you know?]] [[And you have 3% support.]] We will not allow you to do here democracy with limited civil rights and freedoms, limited human rights, as Viktor Orbán has been doing in Budapest for five years. We know exactly how it's been done in the last five years. There is no consent to restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens, all the capital of our tradition, with which we entered into 1989 and which lasted from 1989 until now. That's one thing. Secondly, we will not allow this, although we will probably lose the vote, because here the swords matter, not the arguments for public media to become government media to the end. Because government media is nothing more than the propaganda tube of the currently ruling crew. [[But he's been like this so far, and you didn't mind.]] They were like that in the Polish People's And that's why, Mr. Senator, we've been in prison for something different. We're not gonna let that happen again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u312	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senator The locksmith made his speech in the discussion on the protocol. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm calling a 20-minute break. Message.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u313	Message. The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the requests submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Civil Service Act and some other laws will take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 182. I'm declaring a recess until 4:30. [[And the vote, right?]] Yes. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 08 to 16 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u314	I'm reopening the session. I ask the senators of the secretaries to take their seats at the president's table. We are returning to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sport Committee and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 63 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Żaryn, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The joint committees, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration met at a meeting tonight, as I recall, around 2.00 a.m. At this meeting, in the presence of the legislator on the one hand, on the other hand, representatives of the government with Minister Wargocka at the head, we took part in the debate, specifically the vote. The vote took place in a certain order, i.e. we voted first on the motion to reject the law, then on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and only next, if there were no settlement in one of these two votes, we had to vote on the proposals for specific amendments to the law. In the first vote, on the motion to reject the bill, 6 senators voted in favour, 13 against. In the vote on the proposal to adopt a law without amendments I'm probably not gonna surprise anybody. The result was reversed, i.e. 13 senators voted in favour and 6 against. As the proposal for a law without amendments was adopted, we did not move to point three and we did not vote on the amendments tabled to the law. At this meeting ended, we thanked each other and went to bed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u316	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committee, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u317	I am merely reminding you of the argument I had previously put forward as a representative of minorities, namely all the risks associated with the disorganization of the system.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u318	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Piotr Wach, Senator Piotr Zientarski, Senator Przemysław Terminski, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Andrzej Misiołek, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka and Senator Jerzy Wcisła submitted their conclusions during the discussion. There are no volunteers. In addition, Senator Andrzej Pajak and Senator Piotr Wach were the committee's rapporteurs. Gentlemen can speak, too. Do the senators want to speak? I don't see any calls. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the minority committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 21 voted against, 59 senators voted against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. We are returning to the second agenda: Tax Act from some financial institutions. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 62 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission has considered the proposals put forward during the debate and recommends that the High Senate adopt amendments 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 19, 20, 23, 24, 25 and 26. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u320	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, Senator Krzysztof Mróz, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk and Senator Przemysław Terminski submitted their conclusions during the discussion. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to adopt a law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 1 was in favour, 78 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I would like to say that we are moving on to the vote on the amendments. In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 corrects the reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 81 were in favour, one abstention. [[Voting No 13]] I conclude that Amendment 1 has been accepted. Amendment 2 excludes credit institutions whose activities are leasing and issuing credit cards from the scope of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 24 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 2 was rejected. Amendment 3 assumes that the sum of the balance sheet assets shall be used to establish the tax base instead of the balance sheet balance sheet. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 58 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 3 was rejected. Amendment 4 expressly clarifies that the values adopted in the rules are objective values and harmonises those provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 4 was accepted. Amendment 5 covers insurance and reinsurance undertakings with regard to capital groups following the same arrangement applied to credit institutions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 6 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 7 removes unnecessary reservations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 8 deletes the provision on separate rules for reducing the tax base to the own funds of cooperative banks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] The amendment was accepted. [[Voice from O.R.: Ten o'clock now.]] Yes, now Amendment 10. It assumes that the associate bank will only be able to reduce the tax base by the value of the funds collected in the accounts of the associated cooperative banks if those funds were previously taxed in the cooperative bank. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 10 was accepted. Amendment 11 increases the possibility of reducing the tax base not by half, but by all the assets acquired by the taxpayer from the National Bank of Poland and secured by the refinancing credit granted by that bank. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 11 was accepted. Amendment 12 to eliminate doubts about the interpretation of the concept of a credit institution leaves itself a reference directly to the provision concerning the granting of a refinancing loan by the National Bank of Poland, without indicating the conditions for granting this credit. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 12 was accepted. Amendments 13 and 27 will be voted together. They provide for the possibility of reducing the tax base by the value of assets in the form of securities issued by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego from 1 January 2017. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 81 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 24]] Amendments 13 and 27 were rejected. Amendment 14 assumes that insurance companies may also benefit from the possibility of reducing the tax base by the value of assets in the form of treasury securities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 14 was rejected. Amendment 15 provides for the possibility of reducing the tax base of a national bank by the value of the assets of a branch of that bank established abroad. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 15 was rejected. Amendment 16 provides for the possibility of reducing the mortgage bank's tax base by the value of assets in the form of securities issued. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 16 was rejected. Amendment 17 provides for the possibility of reducing the tax base of insurance companies by the value of own resources. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 17 was rejected. Amendment 18 assumes that, in principle, the date on which the amounts expressed in foreign currency are converted into gold is the date on which the taxable amount is fixed. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 18 was rejected. Amendment 19 clarifies that the obligation to submit a tax return will cover all taxable persons who are subject to the obligation to pay the tax. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 19 was accepted. Amendment 20, as a consequence of the adoption of the tax subjectivity of the branch, deletes the unnecessary part of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 21 deletes the provision exempting state banks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you asking me to give you the results? 82 senators voted, 2 were in favour, 79 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 21 was rejected. Amendment 22 modifies the provision exempting state banks by indicating that the exemption concerns only a bank whose primary purpose is to support the economic policy of the Council of Ministers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 22 were in favour, 58 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 22 was rejected. Amendment 23 deletes normative unnecessary provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 23 was accepted. Amendment 24 seeks to amend the Corporate Income Tax Act correctly. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 24 was accepted. Amendment 25 aligns the transitional provision with the substantive provision of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 25 was accepted. Amendment 26 deletes normative unnecessary word. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 26 was accepted. Amendment 27 has already been voted out. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 59 were in favour, 21 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Tax on Certain Financial Institutions. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the law amending the Civil Service Act and certain other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print number 65 Z. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Senator Przemysław Terminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u321	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission, at its meeting on 31 December 2015, considered the requests made during the debate on 31 December 2015 on the Law amending the Civil Service Act and certain other laws. The Commission presents the following position to the High Senate: the committee did not support any of the proposals submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u322	Do the senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur Piotr Florek still want to speak? Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Andrzej Pajak and Senator Jan Rulewski submitted their applications. In addition, Senator Piotr Florek was the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. I don't see... [[Two words to a wise head.]] Thank you very much, Senator, but you weren't mentioned, so that... [[Voice from the room: What do you mean?]] You were, I'm sorry. [[The voice from the hall: He was, he was...]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You may have spoken, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on the amendments tabled will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We are voting on the motion of Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against. [[Voting No 39]] In the face of the rejection of the bill, we are voting on Senator Andrzej Pająk's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. [[Maybe they'll make a mistake.]] [[They'll make a mistake. They'll make a mistake.]] Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 58 were in favour, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 40]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote... [[One of them got lost.]] Please refrain from commenting on the results of the vote. I can see who... I hear... In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the Civil Service Act and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to item four of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Radio and Television. The Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. A minority of committees asked for the bill to be rejected and for an amendment to the bill, Senate printing No 66 A. First of all, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. The vote on this amendment will be held if the previous proposals are rejected. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 23 were in favour, 57 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the law, we are voting on the motion of the committee to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 82 senators voted, 57 were in favour, 23 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 42]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. [[Talking in the O.R.]] One minute technical break. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 53 to 16 minutes 55]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u323	In view of the resolutions taken, I ask the senators of the rapporteurs to represent the Senate in the course of the examination of the Senate resolutions by the Sejm committees. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the seventh Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting will take place on 13 and 14 January next year. The order of this meeting was sent to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Please take the floor of Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u324	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this will be a statement at the end of the year, because this end of the year prompts us to reflect on what will be particularly important for us in the coming 2016. It's been a few weeks since the new government and parliament were in operation. We have great expectations for them. At the same time, we see a deepening of the differences between political environments and people who identify with them. The scale of the differences is so large that e.g. Professor Andrzej Nowak, known for his strong assessments of our reality, asks in one of his last texts I quote: To make peace, to seek goodwill in ourselves and in others. Today, we need an answer to this request. To lean out of the two ghettos to which Poland shared, not with a tight fist, not with a bad will, but with a good one. Sharing divides, building builds. Can we build something together? It proposes even as one of the activities of the joint laying of the Polish mound of consent, memory and hope in Krakow. In such a spirit, many bishops spoke during the pastors. In Poznań Archbishop Stanisław Gądecki encouraged us to pray for peace in our homeland. He emphasized that it was important that the logic of power and pragmatism should cease to apply in the country, and that this is where the logic of values came into play, that we move away from the primacy of tactics over values, from sociotechnics as a basic method of action, from the hegemony of our own and comprehensively masking of equal privileges. In a similar spirit, Senator Aleksander Bobko spoke at the previous Senate meeting. He encouraged everyone to think about what it is that we are proceding the Constitutional Court Act. For me, he said, from what is happening here, there is a moral or obvious thesis that Rzeczpospolita and the law in Poland need to be repaired. He encouraged us not to empathize with evil intentions, for repair that is necessary can only be done in a certain community, not in combat. President Andrzej Duda also called for the reconstruction of the community during the inaugural Senate meeting. You can't forget that. I am convinced that this is the expectation of the vast majority of Poles. So this will be a special task for me in the new year too. The aim is to build a friendly community, the national one, but also the local one, as well as the smallest community, which is the family. Let me give you one more sentence in my statement, referring to Senator Robert Dowhan's speech, who addressed his son. Although it was not related to the subject he was discussing, it impressed me greatly that he regretted not being with his son on his eighteenth birthday at this important moment. I think that for us who are talking so much about family policy, about the importance of fatherhood and motherhood, it was very important that he was able to draw attention to the absence of his presence at this important moment during the family celebration, which probably takes place at the moment. In this situation, I wish the senator's son the best wishes for him to enter this adulthood as best as possible, all the success and all the best. Fatherhood is a very important matter, and it was Mr. Senator who emphasized very clearly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u325	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u326	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The statement is addressed to the National Judicial Council and concerns the actual grounds for the adoption of the resolution of 11 September 2015. I have read the content of the resolution of the National Judicial Council of 11 September 2015 entitled: the resolution of the Council in connection with the statements of persons performing public functions concerning a temporary custody decision issued by the District Court in Nisko on the placement of minors in the care and foster care centre and the foster family. The resolution contains a crushing criticism of the court's statements of public persons in the Low Court. The problem is that this resolution neither lists these persons nor cites their appalling statements. In view of the above, I would ask you to indicate even one specific statement which gave rise to the adoption of this resolution by the Council. I would also like to ask you if the Council asked the author of the statement to clarify the grounds and motives for the criticism of the court before adopting the resolution. Thank you. I, too, would like to join the wishes of Senator Dowhan's son. [[Applause]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u327	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u328	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, gentlemen of the Senators, for your wishes. Well, unfortunately, I have to stay here. I don't think I can get home anymore. I've always made a statement to the record, and today I'm gonna let myself read it. I have two statements. One thing I want to put into the hands of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. This is a statement on improving the work of civil status offices in the Republic of Poland. As a senator of the Republic of Poland, I request that measures be taken to improve the work of civil status offices operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland. For a long time civil status offices in Poland have been using software whose operation slows down the issuing of relevant documents. The beneficiaries may not receive an on-the-spot document issued at the office due to numerous errors occurring in the IT system provided by the government. Such backlogs are increasing daily, some documents should be waited up for up to a few weeks. In this context, it would be appropriate, first and foremost, to increase the power of local officials to issue documents. The procedure for sending documents to the central database in which they must be approved by the USC manager or his alternate shall further extend the circulation of documents. Detention delays the issuing of relevant acts to citizens. Another possibility to improve USC activities is the introduction of an administrative rather than a judicial procedure in which civil status records are invalidated and any changes in data which have been misregistered as a result of technical problems are made. Government software shows numerous errors that cannot be corrected at local level. The operation of government software, specifically the "Source' programme, significantly slows down the functioning of USC. Perhaps it would be appropriate to adopt alternative software compatible with this system. Does the Ministry intend to take any action to improve civil status offices' activities in relation to these problems? In view of the situation described, it is appropriate to adopt such legal, organisational and technical arrangements as will improve the functioning of civil status offices. Action in this area is important and justified. Sincerely, Robert Dowhan. The second statement, addressed to the Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł, is about reducing the advertising of medicines in the mass media. Dear Minister, as Senator of the Republic of Poland, I request that measures be taken to reduce the advertising of medicines in the media. Studies conducted by CBOS show a clear upward trend in the sales market of supplements and painkillers in Poland. These preparations are becoming more popular among Poles every year. Their sales over a few years increase annually by as much as a few percent. In terms of consumption of painkillers, we are currently second in Europe and third in the world. This is the result of the CBOS study. Annually, more and more Poles go to hospitals as a result of inappropriate use of medicines or dietary supplements. The consumption of medicines advertised does not contribute to improving the health of Poles. These medicines are consumed without consultation with doctors or pharmacists, for many people they are psychologically important, and there is still a lack of adequate education of the society to stop these practices. The increase in drug supply automatically increases demand for drugs, so pharmaceutical companies are constantly issuing more and more advertisements. The advertising blocks in the media are dominated by advertising drugs or dietary supplements. In view of the arguments put forward, it is appropriate to take concrete legal action to reduce the advertising of the specified specifics in the mass media. Many people purchase them as a result of obtaining information about a given measure from the media. The Ministry of Health's activities in this area are important and justified. Sincerely, Robert Dowhan. Sometimes it's the commercials on TV that hurt the head. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-31-senat-07-2.u329	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. I'm joining the New Year's wishes. I would like to thank all the employees of the Senate and the Marshal's Guard for all the work this year. I wish you all the best in the new year, thanking you for your hard work all year round. The seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[End of session at 17 minutes 06]]
