ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Agatha Borowiec, Mr Małgorzata Golińska, Mr Krzysztof Kubow and Mr Arthur Sobonia to the secretaries of today's proceedings. In the first part of the session, Mr Małgorzata Golińska and Mr Krzysztof Kubów will be the secretaries. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec and Krzysztof Kubów. I consider the minutes of the 6th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Civil Service Act and certain other laws, - amending the Law on the Education System and certain other laws, - about the tax on certain financial institutions. The reports shall be in prints 143, 148 and 149 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Energy and Treasury Commission has submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Energy Efficiency Act, - amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law Act. The reports shall be in prints No 155 and 156, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the vote on these reports will take place immediately after the discussion on the second report, i.e. around an hour. 9.30 a.m. A group of Members submitted a draft law amending the Police Act and certain other laws. The project is print number 154. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hold an average debate at first reading of the government draft budget law for 2016. The Bureau of the Sejm also proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the reports of the committee on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Energy Efficiency Act, - amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law Act. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that, due to the failure of authorised entities to report on current information and questions, these points will not be considered at the current session of the Sejm. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Formal applications. Mr Budek from the Civic Platform club came forward.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I ask for a short break and for time to be given to Members to read the request which will be submitted to the Constitutional Tribunal today, to examine the compatibility with the Constitution of this extremely sloppy act, contrary to the Constitution adopted at the previous Sejm meeting and without reflection signed by President Andrzej Duda of the Act. [[Applause]] We would like, Mr Marshal, using the constitutional powers of the group of Members, to assure you, that any non-constitutional act which you adopt will be addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal by the Civic Platform. On the other hand, this time for which I am asking Mr Marshal, or this moment of reflection, will perhaps also allow this party of the Sejm to sign the application to the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing has changed in Poland. The Constitution is binding, even if you curse reality. [[And you're still gonna lie.]] The Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland and very quickly - we hope - your actions will be cut short. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, I think that a 10-minute break will allow people from this part of the room to sign under this proposal, which may now be ashamed of what you are doing with the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Do not be afraid.]] [[Negative, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u3	Mr President, once again, I would like to remind you and your fellow Members that the formal proposals can only concern matters on the agenda and the proceedings of the meeting, i.e. paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 2 184, so I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Club Civic Platform, also with formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to make a formal application under Art. Paragraph 184. 2 point 11 on the draft law which aims to lead to widespread surveillance of Poles on the Internet. I would like to appeal to you to withdraw this outrageous bill - a law in which you introduce a new concept: Internet data, a concept that can be used by the services, by many thousands of online data service officers, including the correspondence of citizens, which should be protected, correspondence carried out through social networks. Like what? Like Facebook, like Twitter. That's all, the whole form of communication between citizens will be able to be acquired without any permission from the court. You do not execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, you do not introduce any independent authority controlling the acquisition of this data. In fact, you're building, you're entering the first stage of the construction of the Orwell state. Nor should you do this in the form of a parliamentary law. This project should be quite well-informed by the institutions that have so far crushed your draft laws. Absolutely in this form, this project in such a mode: extraordinary, in fast mode should not be proceded. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u5	Mr President, I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal either, because - I inform you - the House has just adopted the agenda unanimously and the Member's statement does not fall within the scope of the formal proposal. It may be part of the discussion at the point concerning the amendment of the Police Act. I encourage you to speak in the manner you have just expressed here. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform Club. I would just like to ask that this is indeed a formal proposal, sir. [[Of course, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to extend the agenda for information from the Minister of Health on drastic increases in the prices of transplant drugs for patients. The first decision to reimburse this minister, this government, and a few hundred percent increase for transplant patients. [[Scandal!]] I wanted to ask, what do you have against these patients? Why exactly do these patients meet with a drastic increase in the price of medicines, for which we have successfully negotiated in recent years for patients to pay several zlotys, dozens of zlotys? Since January 1st - several hundred zlotys. I'm asking for information from the Minister of Health on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u7	Mr President, your statement cannot be part of the formal proposal. Let me remind you again: paragraph. Article 2 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm state that formal proposals may relate only to matters on the agenda and the proceedings. [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: That is exactly what this is about.]] This information, this case you're raising, is not on the agenda. [[It was a request to extend order.]] Alternatively, if it were to be, I would ask the club or committee to report it in writing. And let me remind you, always until the hour. Such proposals shall be submitted before the meeting of the Sejm. [[Member Iwona Sledzińska-Katarasinska: What are you saying, man?]] I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u8	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 10.15, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 10.30, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 14, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 16, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 18. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Economics and social entrepreneurship - hour 17.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u9	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act (Prints 152 and 155). I ask Mr Maciej Małecki to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Commission for Energy and Treasury at its meeting today took note of the amendment tabled by the Senate. The Commission recommends adopting this amendment by the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u11	Thank you. I would like to remind you that the Sejm has agreed that in the discussion on this item it will hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I support the amendments tabled by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u13	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I have the honour and pleasure to present my position on the report on the amendment of the Energy Efficiency Act, specifically concerning the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of 24 December 2015. It is regrettable that the draftsman of the committee spoke very quickly about this change, which was presented by the Senate and did not specifically refer to the justification which this amendment signals and extends in some way. Well, I wanted to tell the High House that these amendments, which were deleted by the Senate, were made briefly, just like that, at a committee meeting in which we were surprised. The Members of the applicant or part of the applicants have made specific amendments which have extended the scope of the Act on the extension of the catalogue related to efficiency or introducing substitute charges for natural gas. It turns out that these records and these amendments were unconstitutional. These amendments were therefore rejected by the Senate. The Civic Platform will vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Senate in view of the reasons for the scope and concrete arrangements set out in these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u15	There you go. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Poselski Club I'd like to inform you that the club supports the Senate's amendments to the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u17	There you go. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club to refer to the amendment tabled by the Senate to the Energy Efficiency Act. Of course, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will support this amendment, but it must be said that it stems from the haste which it was in the process, because these things were paid attention to. On the other hand, the committee and later the High Chamber failed to take these comments into account. But it's a good thing we still have the Senate, and she can fix those mistakes in a hurry. We will therefore support this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u19	There you go. And at the moment, the rapporteur of the committee, Maciej Małecki, asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very surprised to hear the voices of the representatives of the Platform and the Polish People's Party, because it is because of your slowness that the Sejm must be able to extend the functioning of the Energy Efficiency Act before the end of the year, because you have dug up this law and left it in the Ministry. And the amendment, which you don't like so much, concerns sealing the toll collection system or obtaining performance certificates and their redemption to entities that buy gas abroad and receive it at the border. The current rules are harmful to those who trade in the country and promote those who buy gas abroad and pick it up at the border. And the amendment we tabled was to seal this system. It was also intended to improve the functioning of the gas obligation. And the voice of the Ministry - the minister assured that in the first quarter of the new year the draft law, which left the Platform and left the Polish People's Party, will be completed - will decide about it. I am surprised, however, that the state, in a situation where we are talking about improving budgetary revenues, when we are talking about sealing the system, is opposed to such solutions. First of all, it is your fault that this bill was not completed in the old term. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Club, submitted a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u22	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I am surprised that the rapporteur is not referring to the merits of the matter, but is trying to create some confusion in the High House and is serving us a lie. The Civic Platform supported the bill that was presented to the applicants, specifically the Law and Justice Club. We were all in favour of these amendments. I am very clear here, in my report, that the applicants who tabled the amendment at the meeting did so quickly, in an unthinkable way. The Higher House, the Senate, referred to this amendment and stated that it was incompatible with the Constitution, because these are the provisions, and so in the explanatory memorandum, the Senate explicitly raises this issue. And that's all I said. The Civic Platform was in favour of a draft resolution which was originally presented. And today he is in favour of accepting also the attention of the Senate, which is the amendment that was indicated by the Senate. Mr Reporter, listen carefully, with understanding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u23	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on the Senate resolution in the voting block. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: What do you mean in the voting block?]] We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission for Energy and the Treasury on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law Act (Prints No 153 and 156). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, the Committee on Energy and the Treasury took note of the changes proposed by the Senate. These are four amendments. All are supported by the committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u25	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Malik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we've been investigating changes to print number 134 adopted last week by the High Sejm. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am pleased to present the opinion adopted today by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury of your Senate amendments in print No 153. All amendments, as you know, have been approved almost unanimously by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury. Therefore, the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice is also positive, we recommend that the High Sejm adopt these amendments and the entire revised law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u27	Please. Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u28	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I will present my opinion on the Senate report. The opinion on these four amendments is positive, they are logical. I'd like to draw your attention. Only that the Senate agreed to our joint proposal, the PSL and the Civic Platform, so that part of the Prosumer Act, those up to 10 kW, could enter into force from January. We, as the Sejm, cannot make any other amendments to the law at the moment, this is what the legislative procedure says. Therefore, I would like to make it clear that the bill directly hits energy consumers, moving from January to July the introduction of a very good law, one of the best in the world, which minimises the cost of producing energy from renewable energy sources, and that is what we should remember. Law and Justice shifts the entry into force of this law to July, the purpose of which is to introduce auctions, i.e. to minimise production costs, because it was not ready for all regulations to be ready from 1 January 2016. In conclusion, we support these four amendments and we will vote positively on them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u29	Please. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In implementing and disseminating innovative energy technologies, account must be taken of the fact whether we are dealing with a centralised energy network structure or a diversified distribution. There is no clear assessment of the situation whether Poland is relying on the free market for energy or the country of this market. The advantage of renewable energy sources is the availability of large manufacturers and mass distributors, as well as the focus on a small manufacturer, i.e. Prosumer. It came to me to present the statement of the Kukiz Club15 on the report of the Senate's committee on the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law Act. The actions of the previous government focused on the stimulation of distributed energy. With what effect for prosumer energy - I would like to ask, because in recent years measures have been taken to modernise and expand electricity industry infrastructure, emphasis has been placed on smart grid solutions. We're talking about the so-called. a power bridge. Network companies are interested in regulating how renewable energy installations are connected to the electricity grid. For the energy regulator, distribution system operators and micro-installations are primarily concerned with the stability and predictability of the law. It is difficult to clearly identify how the proposed changes will affect the planned development of the network. Position of the Kukiz Club15: at this point we are abstaining. The development of RES required, requires and will require transparent legal and administrative procedures. It is important to keep in mind that RES in the European Union is subsidised, investment costs for most installations in the case of renewable energy sources are decreasing. It should be pointed out the potential they have at the moment, with an increase in energy demand. National renewable energy sources can seek to complement the national state security of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u31	Please. Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u32	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The Senate amendments are technical, editorial amendments to the bill. We will be asking for these amendments to be adopted. On the other hand, I would like to say and stress that the law generally delays the entry into force of good solutions which are related to the auction system in electricity, and we regret that this delay is taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u33	Please. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to comment on the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act on Energy Law. The Senate brought four amendments to the bill adopted a few days ago by the High House. The Polish People's Party will support these amendments, as they correct the mistakes made here in this Chamber during the vote and during the procession. The quick process mode within a few hours caused errors to be made in the bill. I would like to remind you that just in committee, as well as here, from this stand, I have tabled an amendment on the introduction of metering, maintenance from 1 January this year. The High House has rejected this amendment, and today the Senate is restoring this amendment, and it is clear that reflection has taken place. The question arises as to why good solutions, good solutions cannot be negotiated, discussed and introduced in the High House. The shift of half a year of distributed energy solutions, as has already been mentioned here, causes huge complications for Poles who have engaged in renewable energy sources, in civic energy. The consequences of this will be truly sad for the citizens and for the state. I think it is important to consider the future of this process and such solutions. Nothing would prevent us from introducing in the law, which we are even amending at the moment, that distributed energy and this form of permanent subsidies for distributed energy will apply from 1 January, as previously stated in the law of the mother, in the law which was to enter into force. And I would like to remind you that PiS has just supported these solutions, contrary to some of the colleagues in this House, PiS has supported these solutions. This has now been questioned. Back to the amendments, the Polish People's Party, Mr Marshal, will support these four amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u35	Please. The question was asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. Question time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am, of course, pleased that this amendment, which accelerates the implementation of prosumer energy, has been tabled, but I do share the regret of the other participants that the implementation of the good law is prolonged. At the same time, I wanted to ask and express my concern that perhaps this is not just about extension. Maybe. I would like to ask whether it is true that it is really about a six-month time to prepare changes to a law that will restrict the implementation of renewable energy sources mainly in the field of wind energy. Isn't that the real reason for this amendment to the bill? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u37	There you go. Would the rapporteur of the committee Wojciech Zubowski like to answer questions? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u38	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, in answer to the question which was raised by the Polish People's Party, I would just like to remind you that at the time we were talking about amendments concerning net Metering and so-called. FIT tariffs. What we're introducing at this point is an amendment only to net metering. On the other hand, the last question from the Civic Platform Club, I ask you, the reasons why we are moving Chapter 4 into force by 6 months, were also given at the third reading in the plenary room. We want to develop rational solutions, rational mechanisms to support all renewable energy sources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u39	There you go. The discussion is closed. We'll be voting on the Senate's resolution in a moment, or actually we'll... [[Game in the O.R.]] I would ask your fellow Members to take their seats. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. We'll proceed with the vote. In the only amendment to the article. 1 Act amending the Act on Energy Efficiency The Senate proposes to delete points 1 and 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting the amendment will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. Three Members voted against the amendment, against - 417, and no one abstained. I state that the Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act and the Energy Law Act. Amendments 1 and 2. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act containing amendments to the Renewable Energy Sources Act. In the first amendment to Article. 222 The Senate proposes that certain provisions enter into force on 1 July 2016. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. Nobody voted against 422 Members, no one abstained. I state that the Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 223 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The question was asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, the Polish People's Party. Time, sir. How much time do you need? [[And how many marshals will you give me?]] I can give you one and a half minutes. [[That's enough.]] There you go. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the government about the introduction of distributed energy support. The law on which we are proceeding, the mother law, entered into force, while some elements of it were to enter into force from 1 January next year, including support in the form of fixed tariffs distributed to 10 kW. So today, investors who have read the bill well have already taken action and have ready-made equipment for energy production, while the situation did not allow them to connect to the network, because the law guaranteed fixed tariffs for all those who will join the network after 1 January. Today's question is, I get a lot of emails about this: What about those who have invested? They are currently preparing to complain to the state that they are withdrawing the law backwards because they are prepared for different conditions, and at the moment they are given different conditions. And the question is, who's gonna be responsible for this right now, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That people took loans, invested their money, and today they can't get on the net and they're gonna suffer losses? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u41	There you go. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Minister of Energy, will answer the question of Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The law tabled by the Group of Members of Law and Justice suspends a significant part of the chapter. The 4th Renewable Energy Act and this is precisely related to the auction system, which, if it were to enter into force in this form, would promote, would give better chances for the development of wind energy, while essentially deletes the possibility of the development of biogas plants in general. Wind energy is an ecological source in this respect, which at the same time requires a reserve of black energy, which means we must have carbon energy, which is excluded at that time. And two: by really building wind energy, we must also have the same amount of electricity production in terms of conventional sources, so that at any moment when there is no wind, the level of power can continue to be maintained. This is one of the most important things. So here we want to make some changes, which will cause that in Poland there will be an adequate amount of biogas plants. From an environmental and economic point of view, the Polish village needs this very much. The second point - actually related to the prosumer problem. Well, the records that were introduced by the Sejm in this law on the initiative of the Polish Parliament assume that there is really a possibility of developing home installations and the assumption of these records was that only the surplus that will appear... that is, this energy production is intended to be for its own needs and only to ensure that if there is any surplus of this energy, it should be bought by the professional energy industry. However, from the various interventions that appear, it is clear that many people have taken this opportunity as a way of life because they say that they have invested money, that they will have to pay large loans for it. So these interventions, which are currently being reported, are not prosumers - these are business interventions which, using the prosumer system, somehow wanted to arrange additional revenues. This is indeed difficult, and in this very amendment of the law tabled by Members, changes have been proposed which raise the fee. So far, with regard to all small, home-style installations, there was an accepted system that guaranteed payment of at least 80% the amount of electricity price from the previous year, as if calculated in such a way. Today we've changed this and we're giving the average price of energy, payback for the energy sold as part of this change, until Chapter 4 enters into force, which will be modified accordingly, we're giving the price 100% the amount of the electricity price of the previous year. It so happens that in recent years electricity has been systematically cheap from year to year, so in fact those prosumers who will have an excess of electricity during this period will get a higher remuneration than the previous ones, which are already several hundred and who have also decided to do so, thinking that their main goal is to produce energy for their needs. So here's the bigger problem I don't see. On the other hand, there is certainly a problem of equal treatment between those who already have installations, those who will eventually start them, and those who will start them in the future. In any event, neither the Members' intention was, nor is it the intention of the Government, that those provisions of the Act, which are exceptionally prosumers, should at the same time be the basis of economic activity. It's supposed to be just a check, it's about real excess energy for your own needs in situations where there's an extraordinary possibility of production, which is very high sunlight and there's more energy than they need, but not that it's a method for personal income, a source of personal income, creating opportunities for de facto economic activity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u43	Please. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak again as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u44	I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for this extensive explanation, except that my question concerned this small prosumer energy, up to 3 kW and up to 10 kW, with fixed tariffs, 65 gr and 75 gr for 1 kWh, as I would like to remind you. I have a question: Will these fixed tariffs be maintained? There are doubts about this, and it would appear from the Minister's statement that they would be eliminated. The point is to explain this, because these concerns are among Poles who have these small installations. This is not an additional source of income, because how much can you earn at 3 kW, these are practically penny cases, Minister Czerwiński can confirm that. The point is to dispel those doubts that are among Poles. What are they gonna do next? Are they going to invest in these small labels or not? We're not talking about these big ones, 40 kW power, we're talking about these small ones, up to 3 kW and up to 10 kW. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u45	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. No one voted against the amendment, against 421 Members, with one abstention. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. 9e paragraph. 1c of the Energy Law of the Senate proposes that this provision should apply to energy produced from 1 January 2016. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 421 Members voted. The absolute majority is 211. Nobody voted against 421 Members and no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 4 of the Law amending the Senate proposes that this provision also apply to regulations issued pursuant to Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The absolute majority is 212. Nobody voted against 422 Members, and no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 min. 51 hrs. 9 min 55]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the parliamentary draft law on tax on certain financial institutions (prints No 75 and 149). Please take the floor and present the report by the representative of the committee of Mr Wiesław Janczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the draft Act No 75 on tax on certain financial institutions. [[Game in the O.R.]] Report on the work of the committee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which worked the document at the meeting last week is included in print No 149. A number of amendments were adopted in the course of the work. The most important ones that were taken into account included the harmonisation of the asset tax for insurers for banking institutions. Taxation has also been introduced for loan companies whose funds exceed the amount of PLN 200 million. The amount of the tax was reduced, the amount of the assets used as the basis for calculating the tax in such a way that for insurers this amount was reduced to PLN 2 billion, leaving at the level of 4 billion, at the level resulting from the submission of the message, the size of the assets for banking institutions. The date of entry into force of the Act has been clarified. This is the effect of the work of the Committee on Public Finance, which was presented in the report in print No 149. It is worth mentioning that this report also contains three minority proposals. They shall apply mutatis mutandis to the deletion of Article. 13, amendments to the Corporate Income Tax Act relate to a different proposal for the entry into force of the Act and concern also the determination of a different tax rate for that conversion factor to be used after calculating the assets at the end of each month. The whole is contained in the print I mentioned in the report of the Committee on Public Finance. The Commission welcomes the proposal by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u47	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u48	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice with regard to the Act No 75 on tax on certain financial institutions, as well as to the report on the work of the Committee on Public Finance to which this document was addressed after first reading. Ladies and gentlemen! The tax on certain financial institutions is the tax that was already in the course of the election campaign in connection with the presidential elections, but also the parliamentary elections were stressed. It must be acknowledged that there was still a great deal of authorisation and public agreement to introduce this tax. The document on which we are proceeding is intended to determine its height, nature and detail in such a way as to show already precise what entities, which institutions will be burdened with it. We know that this applies to banking institutions, and the catalogue also includes insurers. In the course of the work on the document, already in the finance committee, further institutions were included, in this case loan institutions, those whose own funds exceed the amount of PLN 200 million. A number of changes have also been made, but there has been a very rational discussion on this parliamentary project, which has also revealed a number of aspects that have perhaps not yet been balanced. The second reading is a moment which gives full opportunity to submit corrections to the bill, and the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice decided to use it and to amend it at second reading. I'll present these amendments to you in a moment. I'll put them in your hands, Marshal. Maybe I'll talk a little bit about them. The first one: in Article. 5 after paragraph. 7. the following paragraph shall be added. 8 sounds... This is the subject raised by cooperative banks on the taxation of the financial resources collected in the accounts of the merging banks. Here our club proposes that the assets of the banks that are part of the association should not add up in the calculation of this amount of tax. The next change we propose is the change in the fact that we want to exclude the tax base by half, the value of the assets acquired by the taxpayer from the National Bank of Poland, which are the collateral for the refinancing credit granted by the National Bank of Poland. The next change we are proposing is the issue of excluding from the tax base the amounts of bonds that have been purchased to finance public debt. Such a proposal has been widely examined in the Committee on Public Finances. We discussed this and were concerned that there should be no such mechanism for raising the cost of public finances, such an amendment was prepared. Ladies and gentlemen! Another issue is the issue of this tax and the rate, which was at the beginning of 0.0325, and has been codified, as I will remind you, for insurers, in this case reduced and maintained in the course of work so far for banking institutions. We have an amendment to raise this rate to 0.0366%. the tax base per month. Maybe I can explain that the only reason for such action is, however, the willingness to obtain tax revenue at the planned level, which, as I will add, is also included in the draft budget law for 2016. We do not want these tax revenues to be significantly reduced, and after the exemptions that we are presenting here in the amendments, this could happen. Therefore, this change. I'm putting these amendments in your hands, Marshal. Of course, the position of the Law and Justice Club is positive with regard to this project and we want to process it quickly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u49	Thank you. On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like you to address Mr Paweł Arndt. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u50	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! The first reading of the draft tax law on certain financial institutions took place on 17 December. Then we worked on this project on the committee. A number of amendments have been tabled, as the rapporteur said. But still, the Civic Platform Club will not support this bill. It's not all the time a bill that could be accepted by us. The tax on the assets of banks, insurance companies or credit institutions is not a good option. I was wondering if the applicants themselves had come to the same conclusion during the work on the bill in the Public Finance Commission. Representatives of the Legislative Office have proposed that the title of the Act should be amended to include a tax on the assets of certain financial institutions. It would seem that it is so obvious, indeed it is an asset tax. At that time, the applicants strongly opposed this solution. I was wondering if sometimes they were ashamed that this is how we try to tax banks and financial institutions, because it is not a good solution. During my first reading, I said that we would, at least most of us, be willing to agree that banks should share some of the profits with the state budget, but this formula proposed by you is not appropriate. Besides, we see what it looks like in other countries - they either do not apply such taxes, or they give up the tax that they introduced earlier, or they significantly reduce it. This is not a good tax because it will adversely affect bank customers, the economy, the impact on individual customers, small and medium-sized enterprises and large corporations. I also mentioned this earlier that there is a concern that large corporate companies, which, for example, carry out large infrastructure projects, will also suffer, and therefore the entire economy will suffer. In the course of the discussion, there was a suggestion that perhaps such companies, after loans at all, would turn to foreign banks outside our country, but this would also not be a good solution for the economy. Several amendments were tabled during the second reading. Some of them are right and we have accepted these amendments, including the inclusion of loan institutions. However, it should be considered whether this amount of 200 million PLN of assets from which these institutions will be taxed is the appropriate amount. I'm sure it was a good idea to reduce the tax on insurance companies, that is to say, to equalise this tax with banks. I asked for this at first reading, but today I hear that the applicants want to raise this tax again. I don't think that's a good solution. I think that if this tax were harmonised for all financial institutions covered by this law, it would be better. We'll be diversifying banks again, loan institutions, insurance companies. I think it would be worth considering, however, whether this amendment should not be abandoned. We as Platform would also like to make some amendments. One amendment is very similar or maybe the same as that tabled by Mr Janczyk. Namely, it is about cooperative banks. Here we would like the tax base to be reduced by the value of the funds collected on all accounts of the cooperative banks held by the taxpayer. It's just that cooperative banks have a two-level structure, and there's probably no reason to tax the funds that these banks have in the association banks. We also want fiscal securities not to be taxed, and we intend to make an amendment so that the tax base is further reduced by the value of assets placed in securities issued, guaranteed or guaranteed by the Treasury - it seems obvious to us - that such securities are not specifically taxed. And we also want insurance companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] make an amendment that would be symmetrical, such as in the case of banks, i.e. The tax base shall be reduced by the value of own resources. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said before, the Civic Platform will not support this project. On the other hand, we would like to make a few amendments, which I am submitting to your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u51	Thank you very much. I ask you to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15 I would like to take the floor and present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the proposed tax bill presented to some financial institutions. The report of the Committee on Public Finance shows that two main trends dominated the work on this tax. One trend was that some sectors, some sectors, some sectors, some institutions are overprivileged, use their particular position, can create over-normative margins that are not found in other countries, and freely transfer over-naturally generated capital abroad, which must be opposed, because, on the other hand, we have excessive taxation of work, excessive taxation of families, which causes social frustrations, manifested by emigration, manifesting a significant decrease in childhood. These proportions need to be reversed, these proportions need to be changed and speculative capital taxed more than Polish families and Polish citizens who, in our opinion, pay too high taxes and do not have control over their own finances. The second trend that came out in committee is the current of a complete, uncompromising defense of financial institutions. The amendments made by the Modern have actually suggested a complete retreat from the taxation of these institutions. In our view, we could go even further and tax them higher. The free amount - 4 billion for the banking sector, 2 billion for the insurance sector and 200 million for loan companies - could be significantly lower and the scale of taxation could be higher. But we understand that this will be the first year of this tax, and that not all the effects can be predicted immediately. It is therefore necessary to wait and, perhaps, after a year to make a bolder correction in this tax if it turns out that the exaggerated negative effects of the opposition do not exist. At this point, it will be possible to increase this tax. This tax, in addition to the exaggerated negative features, has positive effects, namely to reduce the scale of capital flows from Poland, the capital generated by this sector, will reduce the dividend policy of this sector, and we believe that this policy is instrumental in contributing to the capital flows from Poland, which I mentioned, will improve the current account balance as the transfer of capital abroad from this sector will be significantly reduced. We are only thinking that the money that we will receive from this tax should not be spent on increasing the scope of social policy, which is planned in the draft budget for 2016. In our view, the purpose of introducing such sectoral taxes should be to reduce the budget deficit, to support families, but not through benefits or benefits, but by reducing taxes for them, to reduce labour costs. Here we would see the role of banking tax, i.e. in the transfer of money from institutions to citizens, because citizens, as I stress, are being overtaxed at the moment, bearing costs for large reliefs, among others. for financial institutions, but not only. We would like this tax to be monitored in the future so that its function in the tax system, its role in the functioning of the tax system, could possibly be enhanced. We would also like this tax to have a role in reducing the budget deficit. We believe that the budget law providing for one of the largest budget deficits in the history of the state is unacceptable for a longer time and that the search for money by such operations as the taxation of financial institutions should be primarily aimed at reducing the budget deficit, reducing taxes. The parliamentary club will not support the proposed amendments, especially the Modern Club, aimed at destroying this tax, will vote in favour of the project and will in future opt for further increasing this tax if [[♪ The bell ♪]] This will not have a negative impact on public finances and the economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u53	Thank you very much. Please take the floor on behalf of the Poselski Club Modern Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, there is nothing to hide, the costs of additional bank taxation will be borne by all Poles, as already said in this Chamber many times, especially the poorer ones, because it is mainly they who use bank loans and other banking products, to which it is easy to raise the fee. Young families will be burdened with wealth, pensioners, people who are worse off. It is primarily these groups that borrow retail bank loans, whose price will increase. In the first place, they're gonna take out loans that we take on things like washing machines, computers, or a baby's wedding. Entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, will also be included in the increase, of course. Large corporations too expensive loans in Polish banks will simply be converted into funding in mother banks. Bypassing the tribute, they will only increase their competitive advantage over Native Polish companies. If banks do not transfer fees to customers, they will simply reduce costs. What will this result in? This may, among other things, result in dismissals of employees. Today one of the first banks in Poland announced quite large redundancies. The negative effects of the banking tax can, unfortunately, be much further. Not by chance, ladies and gentlemen, Hungarians are now withdrawing from the same constructed tax. The country where the Law and Justice modeled today introduced a tax on bank assets as early as 2010. Since then, lending in Hungary has decreased by almost 1/3. As a result, in the spring of this year, Hungary announced the gradual withdrawal and reduction of this tax. Unfortunately, once again in Poland we do not learn from mistakes. The Commission for Financial Supervision warns on one further point - the generalisation of the industry and the suggestion of the good condition of the sector as a whole is not a good way to go. Of the banks that will be covered by the Act today, one already notes losses, and this is just the beginning. It is estimated that seven consecutive banks, including four stock exchanges and two branches of a credit institution, will have problems if they do not translate these costs into customers or reduce any other costs. Their results will be close to zero or negative. This is actually easy to calculate because the ROA, which is the profitability of the assets in these banks, is today comparable with or less than the proposed tax rate. These banks account for 18% balance sheet totals of the industry and have close to 17% participation in deposits of the non-financial sector. According to the PiS, it is not enough to take this vote into account in the work on this law, as is the inclusion in the group of taxpayers of the association banks, which will make the tax - as it was also mentioned here today - just twice for part of the assets. As a modern club, we have proposed amendments that can minimise the social impact of this project, and we are counting on their support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u55	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the same club, Mrs Joanna Schmidt will perform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u56	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The applicant claims that the bank tax will not be passed on to the customer, but that the State does not provide the sources of this information and that the European market is completely different from the global market. Just follow the press and what has happened in Poland in the last two months. Seven banks - I was able to find information about seven banks - have already increased their margins from 0.4 to 0.65%. The convergence of rates leaves you with consideration. But assuming that you will continue to confuse Poles with the fact that this tax will not be passed on to them, i.e. they will not feel the burden of this tax, we still have macroeconomic effects, and we must not forget that, because such a tax, above 0,3% assets corrected, has a significant impact on economic growth and on the decline in GDP dynamics, the consequence is lower tax revenues from other sources. My question: Has this been counted? Have you counted these losses in other budget items? The stability of the financial sector is another important issue to ensure the ability to finance Polish commitments. Banks can compensate for the loss of this margin by investing in more risky projects with a higher rate of return, and we must not forget that. As for the SKOKs, apart from the SKOK Stefczyk, all SKOKs have assets lower than 4 billion, so effectively they will not be subject to tax, and this is particularly worrying given that [[♪ The bell ♪]] PiS and SKOK have been supporting each other for many years. The tax will not represent the cost of income and will not lower the tax base for income tax. This is also a serious doubt, because in the extreme situation it may be such that, in the absence of profit, the bank will ultimately suffer losses after paying the bank tax. In conclusion, given the far-reaching social impact, the Modern does not support this form of taxation of the assets of financial institutions. We would be willing to support such a tax, but constructed in a European model, introduced in a thoughtful way, not harming Poles and the Polish economy. I'm making amends.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u57	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club, please take the floor of Mrs Genowefa Tokarska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I present my position on the report of the committee on the draft law on tax on certain financial institutions according to print No 75, and mainly 149. The proposed tax, known as the bank tax, is a new property tax and will constitute the revenue of the state budget. This has a specific meaning. With some satisfaction and satisfaction I am expressing my opinion on this draft banking tax, because so far the imposed speed of legislative work has raised many reservations and emotions, which I have spoken of many times in this House. In the case of this project, a slight slowdown has clearly changed the discussion on an important topic both from the point of view of public finances and the economy. After the first reading of the project in the plenary room on 17 December this year. a lot of opinions, comments and proposals were received from the institutions and those obliged to do so. Moreover, the interested parties could take part in the discussions at the committee meeting on 22 December. The project has undergone numerous technical and legislative changes, mainly from proposals made by the Sejm's analysis office, as well as quite significant changes of substance. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 The list of taxable persons of this tax has also been extended to credit institutions within the meaning of Article. Point 5 (2a) of the Consumer Credit Act. The decision is extremely important because many institutions of this type have been created on the Polish market and provide services - we often say - so-called. parachute. There's no reason to exclude them from this tax system. Art. 5 of the project amends the tax base for insurance and insurance branches, reducing the value of the taxable assets for those entities over PLN 2 billion. The principle seems to be absolutely correct, since the initially proposed limit of 4 billion excluded more than 65% from taxation those bets. For new players proposed by the Commission, i.e. loan institutions, the value of these assets to be taxed was set at more than PLN 200 million. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 added point 5 assuming that, for taxpayers who are cooperative banks, the tax base is reduced by the value of the principal own funds. An important change is also the amendment of the Article. 7, which harmonises the tax rate for all entities in both banking and insurance. It is 0.0325% the tax base per month. By changing the wording of the article. 10 it is clear that State banks are exempt from tax within the meaning of the Banking Law and that taxpayers in the recovery process are exempt. These are the most important changes made during the committee's work. They were possible thanks to opinions and participation in the debate of stakeholders in this project. However, there are still many questions and doubts as to whether we are taking the best solution. Should the tax base be assets? Will this not affect the reduction in credit, and this in turn will slow down the economy, slowing down the economic development that we all care about? We know that already in 2010 a similar tax was introduced by Hungarians and, unfortunately, this was the effect of its operation, and the value of the loans granted fell by 1/3. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I submit an amendment to the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, present annually a report on the implementation of this law for the preceding year and information about the main problems related to its implementation. Thanks to the current information, we will be able to react in time in case of bad consequences of its implementation. Art. The 15th Act states that the introduction of a tax cannot give rise to a change in the terms of the provision of financial and insurance services before the date of entry into force of the Act. However, there is a serious concern that the costs in various ways will be charged to the clients of the institutions, because already today some of them have started to raise their margins. The fact is that a similar banking tax exists in more than half of the European countries, and given the social needs of our country, [[♪ The bell ♪]] we will vote in favour of this law. Of course, I am referring to printing 149 here, and today, as I hear it, the applicants themselves are proposing to make amendments again, and this will require re-examination. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u59	Thank you very much. 13 persons were included in the list of Members of the task. We will close the list with the completion of the first question. The time to ask questions is 1.5 minutes and I ask you very much to ask questions so that we can be present at this time, given not only the number of cases we have today. However, I think that this time will be enough to ask a question. I would ask Mrs Bożena Kaminska from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to ask her first question. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Since you do not have a Member, I ask you very much to ask Mrs Isabella Leszczyna from the same club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! You can see that the Ministry of Finance has at least a partial authority over this bill. That's good. You're trying to master the chaos that reigned on the finance committee. I don't think when I've been working on this committee for eight years, I've never seen a project like this. It is good that you have come to your senses, that you have accepted the arguments of Members of the Civic Platform and that you have accepted two of our demands as your amendments. Mr Paweł Arndt submitted the same. It is good that you do not want to tax your own public debt and that you do not want to tax cooperative banks, because these indigenous Polish banks were supposed to defend this law. It is wrong that we still have one goal, you have one goal: fiscal goal. And because of how you guys had to loosen up someplace, you've also raised that tax at the same time. My question to the Minister is as follows. Minister, tell us how much the tax will be paid by two large companies controlled by the Treasury, i.e. PZU and PKO Bank Polski, and what amounts it will be. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u61	Thank you very much. According to today's information, I am closing the list of Members who are assigned to the question. Now I ask you to ask a member of the Civic Platform club, Mr. Killon Munyama. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is it true that the introduction of a tax on certain financial institutions will have negative consequences for the stability of the financial sector, for investors, for the stock market and, above all, for bank customers and thus for the economy as a whole and its development potential? According to the definition of the National Bank of Poland, the stability of the financial system is a condition in which the financial system performs its functions continuously and effectively, even in the event of unexpected and adverse disturbances of a significant scale. The disruptions in the financial system's work and the disruption of the efficiency of the provision of financial intermediation services have a negative impact on businesses and, of course, on households. Is the government planning to redefine the definition that is contained in the statutes of the National Bank of Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u63	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you a question by Mr Rafał Wójcikowski from the Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome. Please? And that's in the next... [[Marshal, I think you forgot about me.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. Excuse me. It has now been pointed out to me that Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Posel Club will be in advance. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In several cases, it turns out that business entities, financial entities that carry out similar activities are treated differently. I wanted to draw attention to a certain discrepancy in the treatment of SKOKs and loan companies, namely these are companies which, on a good matter, address their offer to the same customers, to very similar customers. And here we have a situation where, let's say, the requirements for the ceiling on which the tax is paid are 4 billion in one case and 200 million PLN in the other. Is such a large disproportion appropriate? Would it not be necessary to consider, however, that financial institutions of a similar nature should also be subject to a similar tax? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u65	Thank you very much. And now, please, Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u66	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I'd like to ask you a question. Will and how the tax on financial institutions affect the value of dividend payments by these financial institutions, i.e. primarily by banks and insurance companies? Therefore, if it does, will the value of these payments fall and will the value of the dividend tax, which is one of the tax sources of the State budget, fall as a result? In the Budget Act, the draft Budget Act for 2016 assumes a 22% reduction in dividend tax revenue from 6 150 million to 4 800 million. Is this decline, which is shown by the legislator, which is shown in the draft budget law, also linked to the analysis of the impact of the tax on financial institutions on the collection of dividends tax, or is it expected that the tax on financial institutions will additionally contribute to the reduction of dividends and to what extent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u67	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you a question by Elizabeth Stępień, the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u68	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question about what methodology has been adopted in this Act, setting out the economic, economic and social impacts. Economic - this will certainly result in a decrease in credit, which will result in entrepreneurs looking for alternative sources of funding or simply financing outside the country. As far as tax is concerned, it is right for the stability of the financial sector, but it cannot be the source of the electoral programme. I would add that the idea of tax is not bad, but should include financial operations and, in the case of insurance companies, speculative financial operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u69	Thank you very much. Let me ask you a question by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz from the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u70	My question is how we are going to build a competitive economy and Polish capital in Poland if we tax Polish financial institutions and this taxation will be many times higher than foreign banks. These banks will be able to lend and sell insurance from abroad, and this will not be taxed, or at least will not be taxed on the bank tax introduced by you, which will consequently make Polish banks, Polish insurance companies weaker than their foreign competitors. Some banks with Polish capital may be on the verge of loss and financial stability in general. This will create a threat to the security of savings of many Poles, which have just been placed in these banks. While the whole world is strengthening the banks after the crisis we have been dealing with, at this moment the project you represent will weaken these banks. I'm just going to point out that the banking tax in the UK has been imposed on liabilities, and it's the most risky ones, and we are really reducing risky decisions by banks. In Switzerland, on the other hand, we have such a solution that bank tax money does not go to consumption, as assumed by the state, but goes to a fund that stabilises the banking system. However, as I have already said, the purpose of your tax is not to stabilise the banking system, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And so it could be, there's just a consumption target, purely fiscal. And let us not be fooled, Polish companies will mainly bear the costs of this banking tax and Polish citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u71	Thank you very much. Please take the floor and ask the question of Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u72	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I want to make it clear: we don't want to protect banks, we're on the client side, because they're going to have to pay higher fees, margins or interest. Banks can handle it somehow, pick up WIBOR, for example, and that's how they're gonna defend themselves. But let's also remember, when it comes to bank clients, that this is also a state budget. And the debt tax is a brilliant idea, and it's a good thing we're pulling out of it. Good, because the involvement of national banks in fiscal securities issued on the domestic market is PLN 166 billion, i.e. 32% in the structure of the SPW in our country. It is also worth noting that banks have been dealing with some overliquidity in recent years, and mainly because of this they have been willing to invest in the SPR, fiscal securities. However, this may change a bit, also as a result of this tax. Aren't you afraid that this might be an important barrier? [[♪ The bell ♪]] when it comes to refinancing Polish debt on the domestic market? In my opinion, this is a movement, given these issues, very risky. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u73	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Paweł Arndt from the same parliamentary club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u74	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Minister! I would like to address my question to the Minister, and it concerns the estimated revenue to the budget after the introduction of this law. I'm asking because there are some ambiguities here. In the explanatory memorandum of the Act, the Members of the applicant wrote that the projected revenue to the budget would amount to PLN 6.5.7 billion. The government estimated quite carefully that the revenue to the budget would amount to PLN 5.5 billion and this amount is written down in the draft budget. During the work of the Committee on Public Finance, amendments were made to ensure that insurance companies would pay a lower tax rate than originally foreseen. Now this tax rate is to go up according to the Members of the applicants. Therefore, the question is: Is there an estimate of the final amount that will enter the budget after the introduction of this law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u75	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jerzy Gosievski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u76	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, The introduction of a bank tax is socially expected. I'm surprised the opposition clubs are against this tax because you're mostly populist clubs. We want to take concrete action. Introduction of banking tax, among others it will allow the introduction of the 500+ programme, which means that the fate of Polish families will definitely improve, especially in poorer areas, in the north-eastern Poland. If you want to represent the voters, you should definitely support this tax. Another thing I would like to emphasise, Minister. We should take all kinds of action in this Sejm, including the government, to strengthen the Polish economy, make the introduction of various taxes dependent on development, on investing in the native economy. Minister, I would therefore like to ask: Is the government considering possibly making investment and banks and other institutions dependent on relief? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u77	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Krzysztof Sitarski from the Kukiz Poselski Club15. Are you an MP? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have comments on the parliamentary bill on tax on certain financial institutions. There is a real concern that only large financial sector entities will be covered by the tax obligation. Taxation of financial institutions at the threshold of PLN 4 million per month is depraving for financial markets. This applies to Chapter 3 of the proposed law. There is a concern of preference for small entities and internationalist foreign bankers and insurers. All you have to do is disperse your services, break it down into sub-companies and in accordance with the article. 8 there is no need to submit a tax return. To sum up, depending on what the financial institution shows, it will pay or not pay anything at all. What is this self-counting supposed to be? Development of financial engineering and cross-border transfers? How and which financial assets will be valued? And most importantly, the authors of the project left in peace foreign entities of the financial and insurance sector, which carry out activities in Poland. There is no possibility of taxation of foreign entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u79	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u80	I am glad because I think that in this Chamber the Minister will answer my questions, or at least those which I did not receive during the debate in committee. I would like to ask: Why do you introduce - or the government accepts - the highest banking tax in the world? Because with the introduction of this tax, and there are announcements of an even higher tax rate, it will be the highest tax. In addition, do you therefore consider that the savings of Poles will be at risk, because in the Budget Act you indicated that from the previous amount of PLN 2 billion for the Banking Guarantee Fund you can lend PLN 4 billion? Why don't you... Don't you think that you or the Minister believe that you restrict access to credit for entrepreneurs - and therefore this will have a negative impact on the economy - and others? In this respect, for young people who borrow housing. There was no answer to the question that was put in the elections because here about Mr Gosievski... It's about fulfilling the electoral promises. Is this the way? And the French were also promised a solution to their problem. So, will you find this solution? [[♪ The bell ♪]] a secure guarantee for banks to reduce legal risks and also to continue to operate so that in the case of further taxes or obligations to assist borrowers, these banks do not go, as it is commonly said, with bags? And will it be safe for the Polish economy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u81	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Jaworski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u82	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a request to the applicant, the representative of the applicants, to respond to the speeches that have been made in this Chamber, but also to the media. I realize that Law and Justice will not solve all the problems after eight failed years of failed PO-PSL governments... [[We'll talk about the budget.]] ...then we'll try to fix what you've ruined. Specific questions. Was there ever an idea to tax cooperative banks? I don't remember such an idea being, and here in the speeches, this subject comes up all the time. Is there a tax on Stefczyk's cash register in this project? I am convinced that it is, and you are still showing that the situation is completely different. Do we have a situation that at the committee meeting you had the impression that the committee was disturbing, disturbing the committee's deliberations, or interfering with the members of the Civic Platform? Because, unlike what one Member has said, unfortunately I do not remember which, the committee's deliberations were going smoothly, everyone had the opportunity to speak, everyone was heard, and it was this committee that showed that these comments which were addressed to us were appropriate comments to which we were able to address them. And one last question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are these speeches, especially those of modern Members, really speaking in defence of the Polish economy and the Polish taxpayer, or in defence only of the owners of banks? Because that's where the speeches come from. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u83	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Kaminska from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of banking tax supports millions of citizens - said Prime Minister Beata Szydło. But do millions of Poles support the fact that taxes will affect them as customers in higher fees for keeping accounts, in increased credit margins, at higher prices of different insurances? The project proposes to tax financial institutions nearly ten times the average in the European Union. What is the reason for this - I ask this question - that customers, citizens, Poles are to bear such high costs associated with the bank tax of other financial institutions? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u85	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Konrad Raczkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to address the questions that have been asked one at a time. And yes, starting with Mrs Isabella Leszczyna. What is the planned revenue from this tax on the main entities, namely PZU and PKO BP? The proceeds are calculated. If this tax were to enter as proposed, the annual revenues from PKO BP would amount to PLN 870 million, while from PZU would amount to PLN 150 million per year. As for Mr Munyama's question, I am sorry, I did not understand very much the questions that were asked. I understand that it's the NBP, but I don't know whether it was the NBP structure or the comparison to the SKOKs. As far as this was concerned, the structure of the assets is similar, while there are completely different liabilities. I do not know if that is what the Member meant. With regard to Mr Rafał Wójcikowski's question, whether there will be a decrease or whether a decrease in dividend should be expected in the event of the introduction of this tax, we must remember that the dividend is directly linked to the annual profit achieved as if it were conditional. What the profit will be, only guarantees what dividend will be generated from this, and any loss of dividend will be compensated for by tax and vice versa, which is unlikely to be expected. As regards the next question, Mrs Kamili Gasiuk-Pihowicz, this was a question about capital adequacy indicators. One thing to remember is that when Basel II was developed, and especially Basel III, these indicators in Poland were and are twice as high as in foreign banks, especially the Tier 1 ratio. So it doesn't really matter, because we were just better prepared for it, and for foreign banks, a lot of foreign banks, this indicator is only to be achieved in two years. As for the next question, Mr Janusz Cichoń, whether the tax could be a refinancing barrier to Polish debt, it could indeed be a barrier if it had not been covered by this... had the tax securities not been excluded. However, if - I dare say - there would be such an exclusion, then I do not see such a danger. As regards the question of Mr Paul Arndt, what is the expected impact - Mr Arndt was kind to say a few amounts - the revenue at the rate stated today, the rate proposed in the proposed amendment, would amount to PLN 4.4 billion. If this rate were at the level as before, i.e. before this meeting, it would be PLN 4.8 billion per year today. As regards the next question, Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, it cannot be accepted that it is the highest tax in the world. If we take the name of the bank tax itself as it is presented, then yes. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, banking tax is based on completely different mechanisms in most countries around the world. So when we talk about bank taxation, we have one of the lowest CIT in the world when it comes to banks - it's 19%. In most European countries, CIT for banks is 39%. So when we talk about bank taxation, we have to consider bank tax only and only together with CIT. It is only then possible to talk about this global taxation, and it is then completely different from the one you were gracious to notice. Will such taxation reduce access to credit? Taking data for the third quarter of this year from the Polish economy, the increase in credit shares was recorded at the level of about PLN 50 billion. So you can see that we have overliquidity in the banking sector, and banks don't give you the kind of credit they could give. This is therefore a threat that is not to be expected because there is too much capital in the sector and the action does not have sufficient demand in relation to the supply that banks could offer. I understand that the next question, Mrs Bożena Kaminska, was similar to that of Mrs Krystyna Skowronska. I hope I answered. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bubula will speak on behalf of the representative of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u88	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to address some of the arguments put forward in the club opinions and the questions addressed to the representatives of the applicants. Firstly, I would like to group these questions into three points and address them collectively. Namely, the first argument concerning Hungary, which is very often raised here that Hungary withdraws from this tax, is not true. Hungary ran from a very high level of this tax, which was much higher than what we propose, and went to the level within the limits that were established in the draft law. This tax in Hungary has been operating since 2010 for 5 years, when in Poland there was no such tax at all, because the Civic Platform, contrary to what it says at the moment that it would be willing to adopt some form of taxation of the financial sector, did not report such a project during its 8-year government. It is therefore difficult today to treat this as a different argument than a demagogic one. Second thing. In Hungary, the decline in credit is caused by completely different reasons than the existence of this tax, macroeconomic reasons rather than by the existence of such a tax. So the Hungarian arguments differ from the reality in Budapest. Stability of the financial sector. I must say that I am very concerned about the arguments made by the modern club, in particular, concerning some kind of threats related to the future of the stability of the financial sector in Poland, because such arguments which are being used would indicate that there are some ideas or plans to blame the Law and Justice and the government of Mrs Beata Szydło for some kind of destabilising actions taken outside the government and outside the parliament. It would be very bad if this kind of blackmail connected with the operation of the entire financial sector in connection with the introduction of the tax, which, I stress, is intended to gather only, as the Minister has calculated today, amounts between PLN 4 and 5 billion during the year from this sector, which has not been subject to this type of taxation throughout the period of operation of the Third Republic, was treated as an excuse to introduce some kind of instability into the financial sector. There is no justification for the transfer of the costs of this tax to customers, borrowers or borrowers. This would prove that the banking system, the financial system in Poland is a deeply unhealthy system, because for years, Poland has been a country with the highest bank charges, the highest margins and the highest additional burdens borne by citizens in connection with the functioning of the banking system. If the introduction of this relatively small amount of financial sector assets would result in an increase in margins and bank charges, as the Members in particular suggest, this would indicate that we are dealing with a situation where there is no free market system in the financial sector in Poland. The liquidity in this sector is, there is the possibility of granting loans, while the lack of willingness for these loans is due to the fact that such fees and margins are simply too high in Poland. So the argument regarding the burden of these costs on ordinary citizens and Polish companies is an argument of a demagogic nature and demonstrates that the Polish financial system needs a great recovery if such threats are to be met, because they are not due to economic considerations, but are due to the lack of appropriate market mechanisms in this sector. Finally, I answer the specific questions that Mr Andrzej Jaworski has asked. Of course, even in the original project there was no intention to tax the smallest financial institutions such as cooperative banks. The discussion in committee and the proposed amendment show that we have pointed out that, in the event that cooperative banks are subject to this type of tax, they will be exempt from this in so far as they benefit from contributions from individual cooperative banks. So this problem was perceived and there were no such objectives in this law for a moment to tax the smallest banks, which are cooperative banks. Also arguments and questions concerning SKOKs are arguments that do not correspond to the truth, because the Stefczyk Kasa, which has as much as 60% the assets of that part of the financial sector comprising SKOK-i are subject to tax on that part of the financial sector. In the case of questions concerning the impact of this law, which are addressed by the modern Members, I would just like to point out that those who are now very much raising the issue of the future stability of this financial sector should ask themselves where this thought and this idea of ensuring the stability of the financial sector were, when the modern leader was one of those who had very much opting for the granting of franchise loans, in a currency that the banks did not have. At the moment we have a problem with the amount of PLN 130 billion. So that I would very much ask you to be careful to present such arguments concerning financial stability, especially those who have not cared or even threatened this financial stability in previous years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u89	Thank you very much. Although the rapporteur of the committee, Wiesław Janczyk, is not in the Chamber, we find that he has resigned. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and some other laws (prints 119 and 143). I would like to present a report to the committee of Arkadiusz Czartoryski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and certain other laws. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after considering this draft law at its meetings on 21 and 22 December 2015, i.e. after discussion, after adoption of the amendments, adds: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. The Commission shall also, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicant, submit the following request from a minority: in Article. Strike out what does not apply. 2 concerning Article 10, points 5 and 6 concerning Article. 19.24 and Art. 4th draft of this Act. The minority proposal, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the current act of the Civil Service Council and is practically aimed at keeping the Civil Service Council unchanged so far, which is contrary to the proposal, which was adopted as an amendment by a member of the Committee of Arthur Górski, which introduces the Civil Service Council instead of the Civil Service Council. In addition to the two: the minority proposal and the amendment which forms the Civil Service Council, which has been adopted, several amendments have been tabled either of a technical and legislative nature or of a substantive nature. As regards these amendments, it is worth noting that the report on the draft law amending the Civil Service Act and some other laws contains new provisions as a result of the amendments adopted, among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 amendment 3 of the report appears point 8. This is an amendment on having 3 years of managerial experience when a person is appointed to a senior management position. Similarly, in the same spirit there is an amendment in amendment 9 which concerns the application for the position of Director-General of the Office. We have here a record: he has at least three years' work experience, but without the public finance sector. These amendments were accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, there was a discussion on the committee. Most of these amendments were adopted by a majority in committee, i.e. Members of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs had different opinions on the draft. I would also like to say that, on behalf of the Office for Sejm Analysis, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs has an opinion on the draft law prepared by Dr. Hab. Maria Gintowt-Jankowicz, the first head of the National School of Public Administration, vice-president of the Civil Service Council and judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, and therefore all these three institutions, for which I believe, we have no doubt that they allow such an opinion to be formulated. With regard to this opinion, it is worth pointing out here that this opinion very precisely defines what is the scope of this amendment of the law that the committee was dealing with. One part of this opinion reads: The proposal does not make any changes - and I stress this - in those parts of the law in force, which constitute appropriate business pragmatism, i.e. a regulation of fundamental importance for people employed on the basis of it. In this respect, the project assessed does not change anything. In addition to the changes, extensive regulations on the basis of employment relationships, the duties of a member of the civil service corps, his powers, training and development in the civil service, as well as the principles of disciplinary responsibility remain. Thus, the legal status of persons covered by the Act remains intact. Issues such as the requirements to be met by the applicant for appointment in the civil service, the procedure for qualifying those persons, the categories of powers and duties of the members of the civil service corps and other elements regulated by this service pragmatism remain the same. The opinion has been forwarded to all ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u91	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I ask you to speak and speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of Mr Arthur Górski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u92	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I am speaking at second reading as a representative of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present our position to ladies and gentlemen at this stage of work on a draft law amending the Civil Service Act. After my first reading, I listened to the voices of the POs, to your opinions, to your manipulations and lies. It's not even a matter of you don't understand the administration, you don't feel like you don't know about it, that you read our proposals selectively. You do not take our argument into account because you are not interested in contentious discussions, but in attack and contention. In your own way, if you're comfortable with black PR, you're interpreting the bill. You don't care about the common good. Your goal is to seduce as many Poles as possible, awaken negative emotions, aggression and rebellion. As we read in the opinion of Prof. Maria Gintowt-Jankowicz: The claim that the draft amendment eliminates civil service as a service pragmatism contained in the 2008 Civil Service Act is not true, it misleads not only thousands of interested workers, but also wider public opinion and as such has the characteristics of abuse. You say you're defending the state. You people who talk about the state that it's a pile of rocks, you have the audacity to hide yourselves from the state. This is the height of impudence on your part. You're saying you're defending the apolitical administration, and you've already politicized the administration. Do you remember what the PO started with eight years ago? Let me remind you. You've checked every ministry who was employed. If someone was hired for our two-year-old government, after all, on competition terms, he was blacklisted. Such persons were marginalized at work, ignored in prizes and promotions, first released under any pretext. It was your brutal, inhuman policy that undermined the foundations of civil service. Some officials from those days who survived today speak of your nightmare, inhumane practices, and today you have the audacity to dress up in the robes of the only righteous defenders of officials. You're tearing up your clothes for show, but in the civil service business, like the king story, you're just naked, you're just not ashamed. The changes we propose are necessary and even necessary. You guys didn't have a vision of administration development. The status of the appointed official has been regarded as unnecessary ballast and limitation for your personnel castles, which is why you have consistently restricted the possibility of being appointed to a minimum over the years. You have reduced the number of appointments from 1600 for our governments to 200 for PO-PSL for the years to come. Today you pretend to bow down with concern for the appointed officials, and for years you did not want to appoint them, creating a dangerous, deceptive illusion, and at the same time digging around in a few of your friends. Nepotism was your daily, well-known practice. [[Voice from the hall: This is a scandal, a scandal just.]] We have confidence in appointed officials because they are the elite of the administration, but there are too few to guarantee proper performance of the tasks of the state, continuity and sustainability. We'd like to lean on them, but you're not giving us that chance. You say we're storming, but how can you tear down something you didn't build, what you stopped building, passively watching the administration squander, because the most valuable officials just left, looking for professional satisfaction elsewhere in the labour market. We have ambitious plans and goals. We want experienced and competent body members, people with open minds, creative, entrepreneurial, courageous. We will build a modern, efficient administration, one that will not paralyze our work with Italian strikes. An official must be a patriot, he must want to serve his country, he must be aware that he is involved in something important, in building and strengthening the state. We'll give the members of the civilian corps the opportunity. Therefore, Law and Justice supports the proposed arrangements for changes in the rules of recruitment for higher positions in civil service and other proposals from print No 119. We also support the replacement of the overly politicised Civil Service Council by the Social Civil Service Council in a completely new composition, partly with new competences. Contrary to appearances, this body is important and will be useful, especially in defining directions for modernising administration. As we read in the opinion cited above, while at the same time staff movements in higher positions in government offices, I can see the reasons why a well-designed council could help to stabilise civil service management and care for its impartial character. Law and Justice are in favour of the adoption of the novel by the High Sejm as soon as possible. And finally. Because you're trying to, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Members of the Civic and Modern Platform, at all costs, restore the decommissioned status quo because you are making desperate attempts to destroy our concepts, to destroy our efforts, to paralyze the work of the administration, and I am making amendments on behalf of our club, which will contribute to the full implementation of our vision of change. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: This is a scandal.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u93	Thank you very much. And I ask you to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform by Maria Małgorzata Janyska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u94	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not refer to this steak of vile abominations, which we have just heard in this House, through respect for you, ladies and gentlemen, through respect... [[Thank you.]] ...for the civilian service. [[Applause]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Bravo!]] In the first place, in view of the common good - first of all the common good - my speech will aim to do so. From the beginning, the draft of the bill in question raised very big and fully justified concerns, because in the first reading version, to which you are returning, I guess, in your amendments, primarily leads to political purges in the government administration and to a drastic reduction in the quality of civil service, of course because of the records there, among others. the elimination of open competitive recruitments for civil service, the waiver of qualification requirements and experience related to the placement of work in government administration or in public finances in relation to senior management positions in administration, the elimination of individual development paths, assessments and management on their basis on the basis of training and liquidation, please state, it is already a kuriozum, any qualification and competence requirements for the head and deputy chief of civil service. That's not enough. You're eliminating the apoliticality of the head of civil service and the deputy head of civil service. To date, candidates for these posts had to register for the absence of belonging to any party at the time of employment, including during the last 5 years before taking up this position. This was our way of preparing an apolitical, good civil service corps. However, you keep only one record, and it will probably be in your version again, that this apoliticality, apartness is required only at the time of employment, while in another record you will in turn remove again... you will eliminate the corresponding... sorry: you are eliminating the fact that the President of the Council of Ministers can cancel those who do not meet the qualification requirements at the beginning, i.e. About the suite. So, ladies and gentlemen, without qualifications, politically, i.e. employment after consideration. Who's gonna be careful? A zealous law and justice officer, of course. During the work of the committee, the Civic Platform has effectively made an amendment that removes the limitation of recruitment to senior civil servants. I suspect that at the moment there will be a return to the liquidation of this recruitment and there will also be a return to the appointment of officials to higher posts and not to the employment contract. So you will be able to invoke, as you wish and whenever you wish, and also, please, appeal as you wish and whenever you wish, because this is what characterizes the employment relationship of the calling, that you can cancel a man at any time, without giving reasons and without the right to claim a labour court. So we're going to promote mediocreness. And is this moving towards professional, reliable civil service and apoliticism? This is a rhetorical question, to which everyone who sits on this side of the room certainly knows the answer. You say all the time, you like to use such a national term that the nation is above the law. Instead of these upper-floor terms, just talk about society, just talk about citizens, because, in the name of an indeterminate national interest, you take the right of citizens - yesterday to the Constitutional Court, to a fair assessment of the law of Parliament, today to the civil service. Your upper-floor empathy was all you needed to gain power, and now you're fighting all over the 26-year-old democracy. You don't correct her, you waltz her, you run her over. And you're doing this on purpose, because on purpose, all these kinds of ideas are in parliamentary projects, not government projects. What's the government ashamed of? What, ladies and gentlemen? The point is, you'd have to consult, consult. You're referring to one of the opinions today, and I'm going to read one very significant sentence for this whole opinion. The professor wrote: A very short time to prepare this opinion makes it impossible to respond in detail to the proposed changes. And that is why, I ask you, in order to protect the civil service from politicisation and management by people who are not competent, and thus to protect against the mediocrity and deterioration of the quality of this service, on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I apply for the rejection in full of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Civil Service Act, prints 119 and 143, and I propose amendments to these prints. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u95	Thank you. I would ask you to speak and speak on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 by Anna Maria Siakowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u96	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz Club15 on the amendment of the Civil Service Act. The position which I intend to present, however, will allow me to anticipate a brief reflection on the Republic of Poland. Rzeczpospolita is a concept that is a simple translation of the Latin term'res publica', that is, 'public things'. The ancient Romans referred to the state, a state understood as a political community. The nature of this political community was explained, among others. Cicero, writing: "Rzeczpospolita is a common matter that we care about together. Not as a rude cluster, but as a multitude, united by the recognition of rights and benefits of life in the community. The Republic of ancient Romans thus means a state which is a community of all citizens, and the purpose of this community is the welfare of all its members, the so-called. It's a common good. Care, prudent concern for this common good, is the essence of politics. It is therefore essential for politicians, especially legislators, to build such a country and to make such a law as is conducive to the achievement of the common good. Is this the case with the amendment of the Civil Service Act? Does this novel serve to achieve the common good? Is it a good law for years, or is it an ad hoc solution? To answer this question, I am obliged to list two drafts of this law - the one submitted by the initiators of the novel and the one which emerged during the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The draft amendment of the Act submitted by the initiators provides for changes of a fundamental nature to the functioning of the civil service system. Firstly, the original draft envisaged the abolition of competitions for higher positions in the civil service. In line with the idea of applicants, Members of Law and Justice, senior civil servants would take positions not by competition but by political award. Secondly, in its original version, the project provided for a complete waiver of the requirements for internship in general and management in the public finance sector. Thirdly, the draft of the novel assumed the complete liquidation of the opinion-advisory body of the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Civil Service Council. However, these changes in the work of the committee have been substantially rebuilt. The recruitment for higher posts in the civil service was maintained through competitions. This change was supported by Mr Kukiz15, in its view that open and competitive recruitment for higher positions in civil service is a solution that should be preserved due to the need for professional behaviour, fair, impartial and politically neutral performance of the State's tasks in government offices. We were not persuaded by the arguments of the initiators of the amendment of the Civil Service Act, who relied on the inefficiency and chronicity of the existing competition procedures as a reason for the abolition of recruitment for higher positions in the civil service in the contest mode. Nor did the argument that the contest mode was politicized as a reason for its abolition convinces us. He did not convince, because the abolition of competitions and the introduction of appointments in fact not only unpolitical, but already openly makes obtaining a higher position in the civil service conditional on political support. Attempting to abolish competitions is, in our opinion, the proverbial pouring out of a baby with a bath. The arguments put forward show only that the current competition procedures must be amended to ensure their transparency and smooth application. As a Kukiz club15, we hope that following the principle of taking care of the common good, the Law and Justice Club will not attempt to enter the original records after all, but will attempt to develop new, simple, clear and transparent rules of recruitment for higher positions in civil service through a competition. Secondly, in the course of its work, the Board of Administration and Home Affairs maintained the requirements for working in general and working in a managerial capacity. At the same time, at the request of the members of the Kukiz 15 club, an amendment was introduced that the requirement that this term of office should apply to the public finance sector should be waived. We are pleased that the high committee has accepted our argument that the requirement to have a managerial experience in the public finance sector is a statutory barrier for thousands of well-educated, competent young people who, as unrelated to the political factions governing after 1989, had no chance to acquire managerial experience in this sector. We consider the removal of this barrier to be a good change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! High Izbo! As the Kukiz Posel Club15, we support the draft amendment of the law as amended during the committee work. We also hope that the largest parliamentary club, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, based on the idea of common good, will not allow itself to be short-sighted and will not nevertheless attempt to introduce the provisions of the Act in its original wording. At the same time, we would like to make an amendment to the bill adopted today, which I will allow you to hand over to the marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u97	You're welcome. Who signed this? Mrs... Who signed this amendment? [[Paweł Kukiz.]] Good. I would like to speak on behalf of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas' Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u98	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Poselski Club I am pleased to present my position on the draft law on civil service. After reading the original project, the novels by Law and Justice, No. 119, we announced the end of civil service in the Republic of Poland and it was a legitimate claim, because in fact the administration ceased to be a professional and politically neutral administration of the State in accordance with this project. The novel ended with competitions in the civil service, introducing a third group, alongside civil servants and civil servants, a category of seniors in the civil service. She endured most of the requirements placed especially on candidates for higher civil service positions, opened them to political nominates, abolished the Civil Service Council and subjected the Head of Civil Service directly to the Prime Minister. The project raised fundamental constitutional reservations, i.e. in particular compliance with Article. 153 constitutions. Above all, the Act contains a very controversial record of specific group redundancies in the administration, which could affect about 1600 highly qualified and experienced government officials. Fortunately, the novel gained a new picture during the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Contests for higher civil service positions were restored in the committee, a public service council was proposed in place of the Civil Service Council. The group redundancies mentioned above have been waived. While the amendments of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs do not eliminate all the shortcomings of the original project, as is the case with compromises, they do not satisfy all. That's the way it is this time. We do not approve of lowering the requirements of candidates for public service. We are concerned about the abandonment of apoliticity, and I am thinking above all about the requirement of a 5-year withdrawal period for candidates, the withdrawal of political party membership. On behalf of Modernity, I will allow myself to make three amendments to this law. These include, in particular, the introduction of a requirement of non-punishment for violating the discipline of public finances for candidates for the Head of Civil Service and Deputy Chief. In the novel proposed by the Law and Justice, this non-criminality would apply only to judicial judgments. In addition, we propose a mandatory suspension in the activities of a person temporarily arrested who holds a higher position in the civil service. The project was very inconsistent, and this suspension concerned employees and civil servants, while it did not concern seniors in the civil service. It's hard to imagine such an arrested, temporarily detained director, e.g. The department of the Central Office, he could continue his duties. If we accept the compromise reached during the deliberations of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and our corrective amendments, we will support this proposal. Otherwise, if there is an attempt to return to the original solutions, we will be forced to vote against these non-constitutional and destructive civil services in order to ensure a high standard of service for citizens and the public good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u99	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Poselski Club Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz will present a modern speech. Mr President, let me just remind you that there are only a few seconds left. [[Voice from the room: 13 seconds.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Just one request, I ask Members of the Law and Justice: if we can keep this law in the version that came out of the committee, it will be really very good. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The call to the Prime Minister is made by the Minister: if a public service committee is to be set up, this body should act as soon as possible so that it can be involved in these activities which will serve to exchange employees, therefore... [[Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u101	Mr President, time is ticking.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u102	...please make sure she's called as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u103	Thank you very much. Please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party by Mrs Andzelika Możjanowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u104	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We don't really know what to refer to. If there was a report from the committee, it should be said: what was the purpose of this attempt on civil service, but now that the amendments to the Law and Justice are in effect, if the earlier stage of the process is restored, it will be a scandal, it will be a embarrassment, a fiction which is created in Parliament of the Republic of Poland, during the work of the committee. Then what do the committee members take the money for? Just to have fun? As I understand it, the Constitutional Tribunal could have resummated the vote. What's gonna happen this time? What's the explanation? How loud should we be screaming to finally be heard by the members and parliamentarians of the Law and Justice, most importantly? Do you people understand the words: debate, developing the best solutions, cooperation for Poles? Don't you understand that we, Poles, maybe this worse sort in your opinion, everywhere, on the street, in shops, offices, are getting tired of the shoes, arrogance, pride you are showing, pretending that you are making the law democratically? Working on this law has shown that it is worth listening to the opposition's voice. And I wanted to thank you today for including the issues raised in the report. It is only a pity that we are still working on the fiction that you prove that the work for Poland must be a work under the cover of the night. You have to process which is a procession for Poles. Today you show once again that you are masters of conspiracy, intrigue, destruction, igniting your own fires, and then to a greater or greater extent of extinguishing them, but then again fueling them. Do you really want to burn all of Poland? Is this an example of management? I'm sending Welch or Kotler. It's about a change that is a permanent process of our time. But the change for change, Mr President, with no greater purpose, without direction, passes away with the goal and is destructive... [[Voice from the room: Amazing.]] ...for every organization. This is the kind of destruction that the state teaches Poles. What was he for, and what's this civil service assassination for? Punish Poles with their ideas and then reward them with grace in committees? No. Let us proceed, let us bring back further proposals that have taken place. Is it really gonna be the next few months to put out the fires you're causing? As an opposition, we won't let that happen. I thought that, in accordance with the decision of the President of Law and Justice, we would not really fire pregnant women, this would not be a mass layoffs action by the Szydło method. I guess I'm wrong. Dear Members of the PiS, the politicised Civil Service Council - I hear. Didn't you send your fellow Members, Dr. Górski, the editor of our Journal, the head of the political office of Ryszard Czarnecki, a member of the Political Council of PiS, and Mr Wozniak, also a member of the Political Council of PiS which has been on the Civil Service Council since 2011? As I understand it, you have assigned to this counsel people who know or know civil servants. So I am surprised to find these names among the authors of the Civil Service Act discussed, and unfortunately I do not find the name of one or the other expert. Is it because they do not know each other very well in civil service, or because for many years they have had the opportunity to influence its shape, have the opportunity to verify and verify the correctness of competitions for positions in civil service, and have also consulted the reports of the Head of Civil Service? And here, honourable Members of the PiS, you do not want to speak to Poles after the election, nor to those on the street, nor to those you compare to the Gestapo, nor to us here in the Seym and the Senate. You don't want to talk to your own or external experts. And just like the Constitutional Court, you have all the votes of experienced employers and managers for nothing. Has anyone sought any reliable expertise? It reminds me of one slogan the Prime Minister said today: it came out of the bag. Yes, today I am convinced that none of us citizens understood this cynical irony. Today's awful day out of the bag. You can see this not only after this civil service bill, the one that was changed during the committee's work, but also the one that you want to introduce as a smoke curtain today, to destroy an army of reliable, competent civil servants, to fire pregnant women. Say it honestly: you'll fire pregnant women, you'll fire the disabled, you'll eliminate the competitions and introduce inexperienced, incompetent managers, as long as, of course, we get back to the previous version, and I hope not, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the meteor, passive, but faithful, with the PiS books, is not just your most important goal. So that, ladies and gentlemen, as the Polish People's Party, we will request that this draft amendment to the Civil Service Act be rejected, because this is not a good change. This is definitely your shift, change to the PiS. We're not going to change the independence of the judiciary anymore, because it's already here, the Duda method, but the attempted mass layoffs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u105	Madam President, I would like to remind you of the 5-minute limit of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u106	...group this is the method for Szydło. [[Applause]] [[For Mr Bure, my friend.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u107	Please take the floor of the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Ms Beata Kempa. [[Voice from the room: How was it with NIK, remember? What did you set up?]] [[Okay, that's great.]] [[What were you and Bury setting up?]] [[Voice from the room: There's no need to be so nervous.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u108	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u109	Calm down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. [[Voice from the room: Nothing happened.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u110	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I go to the answers to questions that will probably be many - that's good, that's why there's a discussion in the Polish Parliament - I wanted to appeal to your marshal and at the same time ask you that the level of public debate doesn't go down to the level that I call below the grass. Member, there are limits... [[Voice from the room: He is Mr Górski.]] Let me repeat, Mrs... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Gorskiego, please recall.]] ...there are limits to mocking someone else's name. Whether it is the name of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, whether it is the name of another person or ordinary citizen. It's just not what you do. Even if you disagree, if you have... [[Voice from the room: Can you get to the point?]] ...attention to the bill if you have your suggestions, even if you are a Member of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, this does not entitle you to mock someone else's name. [[Applause]] You should just apologize. Your marshal, I ask you to interrupt and pay attention at such a time, because we cannot, as if we could go any further than what is being done here. I will answer the questions in the round after your questions have been asked. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u111	Thank you very much. These are speeches on behalf of the clubs, therefore representatives present their positions, and if anyone is offended, they always have the opportunity to take the measures provided for in the Rules of Procedure. 30 Members are included in the list of Members of the Question Task. I'm closing the list right now. At the same time, I inform... [[Game in the O.R.]] The list is closed. There was enough time to sign up. Question time - 1 minute. I ask you to comply with this time, because I will be forced to take the floor, and I would not like to do so. There are many Members, therefore I ask you very much to behave, to observe this 1 minute, this time to ask questions. We begin with Mr Michael Honourable of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. Is the Member here? There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I'd like to start by saying that art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. The 2nd Constitution states that the President of the Council of Ministers is the head of the Civil Service Corps. Therefore, the question to Minister Kempy: Why are we dealing with a parliamentary project, not a government project, a project consisting of 47 articles? What's this project all about? This is de. in fact, the resignation from open and competitive recruitment for higher positions in the civil service. This is de. in fact, the politicalisation of the civil service corps. Ladies and gentlemen! What's really going on here? The point is that these solutions, which are presented in the project, are a contradiction of the previously introduced constitutional and international standards of civil service and are a contradiction of the idea of civil service itself. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u113	Mr President, the time has passed, I remind you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u114	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u115	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz. Is there a Member? [[I'm here.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am directing my question to Minister Kempy. How many people have been employed in high positions for many years, not as a result of competitions, but as responsibilities? In the case of the Chief Road Manager for more than 5 years or more than 2 years in the case of the Chief Health Officer. They were responsibilities, so they were temporarily employed, but they made very important decisions. The chief health inspector privatized almost perfectly all the laboratories of the health care system, and on the way out, he even made a provision to privatize the control of water intended for consumption. The general road manager spent billions of zlotys building the most expensive highways in the world. The U.S.S. that spends... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u117	Member, time has passed. Finish the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u118	...close to 200 billion, he has been directing for many years, for many months, a person who has also been employed as a performer. I wanted to ask, how long does the government need to sort things out? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u119	Mr Andrzej Gawron, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u120	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! We are discussing amendments to the Civil Service Act today. Perhaps the permanent defenders of democracy have already lined up in a long line to criticize the solutions adopted. Ask yourself: What will they defend? [[Member Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Language of the commune.]] The rule of law, of course. [[It's like the PRL.]] Yes, the rule of law, the rule of law, which you have built with such perseverance during these years of the Third Polish Republic. In theory, citizens may submit draft laws and requests for referendums, but no one has accepted them. In theory, the Constitutional Tribunal upholds the Constitution, but without squinting his eyes, he agreed to steal our contributions from the OFE. Theoretically, we have a professional, apolitical civilian service, but the previous practice of setting competitions for our own or long-term administration of offices by those performing duties [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's totally denying that thesis.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u121	Mr President, let me remind you: time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u122	A clear example of this impartiality and reliability is the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, the institution which should stand outside all suspicions. I ask the question: Is this the law? [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u123	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u124	Is this how civil service should work? Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Exactly, is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u125	I ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, to ask a question. I remind you, one minute to ask a question, because I'm gonna have to turn off the speakerphone, and I don't want to do it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder and ask what we are really going to vote on, because it is not that amazing proposal that came out of the committee recommended by the committee, because it would not really make sense from the point of view of the applicants, because that is not the point. This law, as in many earlier ones, is really about depropriating the state, so that later this derogatory state will own further spheres of public life, after that maybe private. Because this is the method: to change not the rules, the principle, but the personality, because our man will know, he does not need any rules, and to replace, as in the civil service law, the principle of servitude. And it's not the body we're gonna have, but the court, because people aren't sure about the rules, they're 100% intimidated. It's available. And I think that's what this is about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u127	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Anna Nemś, from the same club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Civil service is politically neutral, or rather we have to ask ourselves whether it will be politically neutral and whether it will be based on official ethics. Dear Minister, I would like to ask the question: Are you familiar with the opinion of the Civil Service Council, which critically evaluates the omission of the statutory obligation to consult the Council on the current amendment to the Civil Service Act in the Sejm? The revision of such an important law requires a broad public debate, involving academics, experts, trade unions and members of the civil service corps. Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments that my predecessors have said about - at the very beginning you have eliminated the State of the Civil Service Council in general, and then entered in the form of a Civil Service Council. But the most important thing: What are you afraid there is no room for representatives of parliamentary clubs in this council? Do you have anything to hide? Transparency, [[♪ The bell ♪]] openness, discussion - these are your passwords. Are you in any danger from us? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Grabiec, the same club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is to change the 7th in print 119. It is stated here that the project does not terminate the civil service. He may not formally eliminate this service, but he certainly cuts off the head of the civilian service, depriving the apolitical chief of civil service, releasing thousands of senior civil servants from the vending machine... [[Your pretorians.]] ...and suggesting that in place of highly qualified officials hire people without competition and without any requirements. Amendment 7 is that those employed without a competition and without requirements will also be exempted from the preparatory service and therefore from passing the exam with basic official knowledge. Question to applicants: What are you afraid of? Do you fear that these managers of yours, highly qualified, will not be able to pass the exam - after the completion of the preparatory service - from basic official knowledge? What is the purpose of this change? I'm asking you to explain in this case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: It's a pity you didn't ask about it before.]] Is this really a good change proposed by the PiS? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u131	Mr Marcin Święcicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Civil service has existed for 150 years now when it was first established in England, and very many democratic, civilized countries are introducing civil service. We started introducing it only after 1990 and for this purpose, to raise people who were politically neutral, competent, objective, the National School of Public Administration was established. This school was attended by people not those who wanted to go to politics - who just wanted to serve you with their powers, their knowledge, their abilities, their education in government officials to perform these functions well. In the last 25 years, the National School of Public Administration has released nearly 1000 graduates. These people have powered the public administration and many of them have already reached the positions of directors, vice-directors. Now you tell all these people, "No, you're fired." Whatever your qualifications, whatever your ethos, your preparation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your desire to serve the state. Your party card will be important. [[The Platform's legitimacy is important.]] I'm asking you what you're gonna say to the graduates of the National School of Public Administration...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u133	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u134	...you'll be firing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u135	I ask Mr Jan Mosiński from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Two words to the politicians of the Civic Platform and PSL. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not defending democracy. You're defending your pals, your quality and your degrengolads. And I'm gonna talk about it in a minute. [[Applause]] Minister, question: Will the draft law end the practices which were some of the standards of the PO-PSL coalition? Among other things: confirmed cases of nepotism and co-motery consisting in favoring relatives and acquaintances in their employment, promotion and reward... [[Voice from the room: Why don't you give examples from the PiS?]] In a minute. ...the use of mobbing, which in 2009 and 2013 alone in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture cost the state budget of PLN 0.5 million; admission to the creation of circumstances bearing the sign of conflict of interest through personal links of persons performing managerial functions in the Agency with organisations receiving funds; outsourcing of training services which resulted in the favour of the FAPA Agricultural Aid Foundation - orders were carried out [[♪ The bell ♪]] in breach of public procurement law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u137	Mr President, time is running out.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u138	For Mrs Możjanowska and Janyska I recommend reading...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u139	Please take...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u140	...Mr. Cichocki's letter confirming nepotism, palism...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u141	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u142	...and this mess. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u143	...we're out of time. Please take the floor and ask Mr Jerzy Paul's question from the same club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u144	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent days in the media, some journalists and publicists have raised a great cry that the Civil Service Corps Act will dismantle state offices. Poles are scared, especially civil servants... [[The voice from the hall: Then stop scaring them.]] ...that almost everyone will be fired, that thousands of people will lose their jobs, that their families will be left without means to live, and that the entire clerk corps will be blown up. Minister, I would therefore like to ask: How many employees in senior civil servants, how many in middle management positions, and how many in coordinating, independent, specialised and supportive positions will be affected by the government's proposed change of rules? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u145	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Andzelika Możjanowska to ask a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u146	I hear nepotism, palism. This country is sanctioning the worst practices, because instead of improving regulations and laws, instead of eliminating emerging pathologies in possible competitions in offices, you remove competitions by sanctioning the identification of candidates with Party ID; instead of raising competence requirements, you abolish them; instead of eliminating pathologies associated with mixing civil service with political commitment, you sanction them with your regulations. If you find out... [[You tell that to Bury, he's not here.]] ...that a lot of pickpockets aren't being punished today, so you're gonna propose legalizing wallet stealing? Because that's an example. the introduction of such destructive solutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u147	Thank you very much. Another Member who will ask the question will be Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u148	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Despite the good proposals for amendments to the draft law, proposed and adopted at the last meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, new solutions still mean the interruption of the professional paths of many well-working officials. The opinion of the General Bar Council on the proposed changes to the civil service system is devastating. It considered that the dismantling of apolitical civil service would lead to a violation and weakening of the right to good administration. This could seriously undermine the level of legal security of the citizen in relations with the administration. This is the opinion of many professional environments, not the effect of the hysteria of the opposition, which was recently mentioned by Minister Beata Kempa. In view of the above, I ask you about point 9 of Article. 11 Law on the prohibition of membership of a political party. In the current law is spoken [[♪ The bell ♪]] a ban on party membership in the last five years.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u149	Member, time is up, please finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u150	Sekundek. May I, Your Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u151	But time's up. If we're gonna be like this...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u152	This ban in the new law is to be lifted. Just one question. In view of the above, what is the justification of the applicants for the mitigation of this important ban on civil service apoliticity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u153	Mr Andrzej Kryj, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur. Do you agree with the words of the young policy of the Polish People's Party, which in the web portal. local television. en wrote: "In this place I am going to praise the current government. It's for the changes to the Civil Service Act. It's a law that gives special rights to government officials. He makes them eternal, allowing many freedoms and laws. And that's what happens when some 200 people in the ministry make more money than the minister does. And with much less work. The change of law itself is a good move. The sacred cows of public administration will disappear. The state of directors will finally feel responsible for their actions. We're gonna end up with a well-known 'I've survived a lot of ministers, I'm gonna survive that.' It's an American-style solution - the government changes, directors change in ministries. Because they're supposed to implement government policy, not theirs or theirs. Simple. That's good. Finally? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u155	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Wróblewska will ask a question from the same club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u156	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask if the changes to the bill... I wanted to ask the Minister if the amendments to the Civil Service Act would cut off the political monopoly, so ubiquitous in filling higher posts in the civil service, as we learn from the media and more. An example is the Elewerr scandal or the filling of higher positions at national or regional level by the ministers and politicians of PO-PSL, as we learn from the discussions at the famous Warsaw restaurant. I hope that this law will change this and guarantee the depoliticisation of state and local government administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u157	Mrs Bernadette Krynicka will ask another question. Same club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 14 June 2014, after the publication in the weekly "Insights from illegally overheard talks between politicians, current and former ministers, entrepreneurs and NBP presidents, we learned, among other things, that the Polish state does not exist, that it exists only theoretically. From the conversation between Bure and Kwiatkowski, we learned that many posts in civil services filled in the road competitions were only fiction. I have therefore a question: Did all those appointed in the days of the government of the PO and PSL have a material preparation and education in accordance with their function in civil service? Did they have experience in managerial positions in government administration or in managerial positions in the public finance sector? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u159	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Osos, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitution provides that the civil service corps is to operate in order to ensure the professional, reliable and politically neutral performance of the tasks of the State in government offices. In the original version, the project envisaged the elimination of the procedure for filling higher posts by means of open and competitive recruitment. If we return to this, there will be doubts about the compatibility of these provisions with the Constitution. For can the politically neutral performance of the State's tasks be carried out by the civil service corps partially politicized? How would the qualifications of these persons be verified to meet the conditions for the fair and professional performance of the tasks referred to in the Constitution? I therefore ask whether you will return to these original solutions. If so, please respond to the doubts I have indicated. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u161	Thank you very much. The question on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be asked by Mr Arthur Górski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The representative of the Civic Platform accused me of not being true when I said that during the black, long night of the rule of the Civic Platform was fired under any pretext of the employees who were hired in 2006-2007. In order not to be literal, I'm going to ask a government representative a question. Minister, are you familiar with the case of dismissal of staff employed in KPRN in 2006, as she has already made a mathematical error under another team? She was wrong to count paper bags with the KPRN logo, which resulted in a surplus of 24 bags when more than 2,000 pieces of these bags were in the state. And that was enough power at the time, the ruthless civil platform officers, to brutally fire and throw a woman out because she was an insecure element. How many more members of the civil service corps have become similar victims of the governments of the PO? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u163	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u164	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The State of Law and Justice has accustomed us to the fact that you are making MEPs for such important bill proposals, because you do not have to agree on this, you do not have to ask for opinions. You're used to your projects being burdened with serious legal flaws, which means they're legal bubbles. Of course, this project also raises a number of legal doubts, but we nevertheless thank you for having two opinions. We have an opinion of the BAS, which, to the end, Mr Czartoryski, was not pink, because in this opinion, you say that you are confusing all appointments over 20 years, and that you are also questioning the liquidation of the Service Council. Ladies and gentlemen, how cynical it is in your justification to refer to the article. 153 constitutions. Where's the pro if the head of civil service doesn't have to be elected from the civilian corps and he doesn't have to have any experience running his officials? Where's the political neutrality? It may be a PiS politician who will only postpone his party card at the time of his appointment. My question is: Why is the only reason to fire a person from work? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't there another engagement? Do you want to be handed out at the end of the year...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u165	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u166	...uncomfortable parole officials? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u167	Mr Dariusz Kubiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Leszek Goławski, spokesperson of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Katowice, spoke about the practices of certain politicians of the Civic Platform: When the first candidate is such a weak candidate that, having a question put before him, he cannot present himself before the committee, this competition is cancelled. There's a new contest to get him better prepared. He is given materials and questions that will be asked so that he can do better than other candidates. According to this principle, the head of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, assisted Przemysław Szewczyk in the competition for the delegate of NIK in Łódź. He told him the contest questions so he could pass the test. The shoemaker was wrong, though. Next time we'd better get ready - then Kwiatkowski told him on the phone. After this conversation, NIK's boss canceled the contest and wrote down a new one that his candidate won. Is this supposed to be the construction of a professional civil service corps that a Member of the Civic Platform was just talking about? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u169	I would ask you to ask Maria Małgorzata Janyska from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u170	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am asking the applicant's representative, not the government, even though the Minister would be very happy to answer, and that is because the government has given no opinion on this project, and I think he is indifferent to it. We haven't had any information so far. There's a lot of questions you'd like to ask, but for a minute, if you'll excuse me, you can't. I will therefore ask a very brief substantive question. Art. The 53th Act, as yet, provides for requirements for candidates for civil service positions, indicates what competences must be, among others. those we have already mentioned here, internships, on experience as Director-General of the Office and other posts. As I presume, your amendment will be terminated and you will restore the previous condition, i.e. these qualification requirements will no longer apply. But one of the requirements remains: this person must have managerial competence. Ladies and gentlemen, how do you want to check them out if you're throwing out your job requirements? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in management positions? With the help of a psychic? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u171	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u172	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! First, I would like to ask Mrs Możjanowska not to miss the truth, because as a member of the Civil Service Council I have never been and until now I am not a member of the Political Council of Law and Justice, so please do not assign me functions that I do not currently perform. I'm gonna move on to the bill now. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, is it true that the Coalition of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party has passed a law on the rationalisation of employment in the government administration, on the basis of which it was supposed to be released from work, how is it going, of 10% employed in the government administration? Was that an assassination attempt on public service? Was that an assassination attempt on the government administration? After all, the Constitutional Tribunal, which you are defending today, has shown, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That it was an assassination attempt, and that's why he repealed the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u173	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u174	Is it true that this was the case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u175	I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk from the same club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u176	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Civil service reform is essential. Why? Allow me to invoke the Independent. pl, which in 2012 after the band event PSL wrote: Leaving the state-owned company with giant funds, treating it as a private farm, information about social arrangements in offices - such issues were discussed in the interview by the former head of the Agricultural Market Agency and chief of PSL politicians. It was a sensational record of the conversation, describing uncontrolled mechanisms and phenomena at the interface between politics and business. It is true that the Civic Platform and the Civil Service PSL have done family service. It is therefore clear that civil service work must be reformed, must be subject to clear and clear rules, civil service needs immediate organisational and methodological reform, otherwise it will be a threat to national security [[♪ The bell ♪]] and will become the arena of crimes against the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u177	Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u178	A short question: When will the government be able to master this pathology at what time? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Without undue delay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u179	I ask Mr Paweł to come from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to say that there have been several proceedings in the case of Elewarr, prosecutors and judges, and they've all been dismissed. So please don't use these arguments. [[Applause]] [[Bravo D.A.'s office, bravo D.A.'s office!]] Are the applicants aware that the proposed change... [[Voice from the room: Change.]] ...in art. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 concerning the arbitrary appointment of the Head of Civil Service shall be incompatible with Article. 153 Constitution, according to which civil service ensures the professional, impartial and politically neutral performance of the State's tasks? Next question: What is the purpose of the applicants in the revision of the Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 paragraph 7, which will de facto allow the appointment of a head of civil service of a person who has been convicted by an unlawful judgment prohibiting management positions? Is it legal to open the door to this position to those who have been banned from taking management positions but who are not legally allowed to take office? Similar change [[♪ The bell ♪]] is proposed in Article. 53 for higher civil service posts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u181	Mr Dominik Turczyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u182	Tarsinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u183	Tarsinski. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I was inspired to ask Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, who was so concerned about pro-family politics, not really speaking about the fact that pregnant women are to be fired. A great example of family policy led by the party of its people, by PSL is the fact that PSL employed 30,000. people, and a great, perfect example, of which there are thousands, is the contest for an inspector at the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, who, despite the fact that there were 18 candidates, won Karolina Łazicka, privately daughter of Mr.Marek Błaszczak, director of the Department of Agricultural Property Agency in Warsaw. Moreover, for 11 years in PSL a resolution has been in force, which says that PSL collects a racket from the people it employs at 3% 3% for 11 years. I don't know if you're paying in gold bars now, but Minister, I'd like to ask if there's any chance we can find out, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how much public money went to people employed by PSL. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[I was talking about pregnant women, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u185	Thank you again for making a mistake in your name. I would like to ask you a question by Mrs Elżbieta Gapińska from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As much demagogy as I heard from the rapporteur of the PiS Club, it is simply, ladies and gentlemen, that the Himalayas of hypocrisy are aimed at only one thing: the justification for the state's politicalisation of the civil service which you want to make with the arms of the PiS. Don't you really have any shame in this stool jump? When are you gonna be satisfied with this stool jump? And where are your election promises? What you are doing is the consistent destruction of democracy, similar to how you destroyed the Constitutional Tribunal. I wanted to ask you if you would like to release 1,600 members of the civil service corps, people who are highly qualified, and to take these places to the mediocre, passive, but faithful members of your PiS. You really want to do this? Have you considered the consequences? [[♪ The bell ♪]] of such behaviour Will you carry it? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u187	Member, time has passed. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak from the same parliamentary club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A calling and a contest. The appointment is an addiction, the appointment is a specific type of employment in the Polish People's Republic. It was KC PZPR who called. Then in free Poland we did competitions, maybe they weren't always perfect, much better. And what's this civilian service gonna be like? Two questions. Is it true that the head of the civil service corps and his deputy will not have to present a certificate of non-punishment? Is it true that the requirements of higher civil servants will be greatly reduced? Is that how people are supposed to be? Is that the kind of requirement you want to make for them? I don't think that's a good forecast. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u189	Thank you very much. And Mr Edward Sulphur of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! All citizens would like to be served by a professional administration, but despite the announcements and beautiful slogans that men from the Civic Platform preach, everything has been done in recent years to destroy this public administration. You did it exactly, and you did it very, very consistently. Today, you are tearing up your clothes to change the Civil Service Act, while what has been going on for eight years is a denial of everything you are talking about. I have a question for the Minister, namely whether the government is planning any comprehensive solutions that would solve the employment of people in the highest state positions, because today we have such a situation that, in addition to the Civil Service Act, we still have a law on public servants, other solutions that make us have different employment rules. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u191	Thank you. Question time's over.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u192	Will there be any harmonisation of employment rules? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u193	I ask Mrs Anna April to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs Możjanowska is an inspiration for many Members, including me. [[I'm so happy for you.]] Since memory is selective, let me remind you of a conversation between two Mr Władysławs, Mr Władysław Łukasik and Mr Władysław Serafin: I did not want to agree to it, they forced it on me with the minister that he was resigning from the chairman. 'Cause I'd rather... [[In corrigendum mode.]] ...he was the president, not the pole. And that's how the pole deals it all. It's gonna take longer. They won't rush into the competition because it's convenient for Cream, it's convenient for this whole gang, this group to rule. SKL pressed here, right, to Warsaw, to headquarters with at least ten people to posts. You know, the ones that don't do anything. They just sit there and do nothing. Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: Will these changes that are being made eliminate these pathologies and ubiquitous hypocrisy?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u195	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u196	Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u197	Thank you very much. Madam President, on the point of correcting - but just a moment - misunderstood or misunderstood? [[Inaccurately quoted.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u198	I am very pleased that I am an inspiration to many Members of the Law and Justice, and I would like to be, at least, repairing the Civil Service Act. My name is Możjanowska and I don't want you to quote other names because it doesn't make sense. If you want to fight pathologists, I strongly urge you to do so, please, only rationally, factually and as we assume...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u199	Member, this was supposed to be a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u200	...and as I've made my amendments, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice in the room: corrected.]] ...because only a fly that falls into a web sees a web connection everywhere. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a corrigendum.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u201	I ask that Mr Bartosz Józwiak speak from the Kukiz Posel Club15 to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u202	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not consider the current state of civil service to be an ideal state, and I do not believe that this is something that needs to be put on the agenda because it needs to be changed. However, the problem is always the path to these changes. And here I have three short questions for the applicants. Do you really think that the competition procedure, even if sometimes misappreciated or not properly applied, but widely applied in very many institutions and sectors, including private ones, is worse than arbitrary appointments? Is it really such a bad thing for the quality of the decision to use the opinion of the advisory body before they are taken, e.g. The Social State of the Civil Service Council? And how will the quality of officials improve, the quality of their decisions and the performance of their duties as a result of lower education qualifications? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u203	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you a question by Mr Mirosław Suchon from the Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u204	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the following substantive questions. Firstly, why does Law and Justice eliminate the possibility of representatives of parliamentary clubs attending the Civil Service Council? It seems to me that this could improve the quality of the decisions and contribute to reaching an agreement in shaping the service. Secondly, why are the requirements of experience for the lower in the hierarchy position of the Director-General of the Office higher than for the position of Head of Civil Service? This is a psychic decision. Another question also refers to this subject. Why are experience requirements - in principle, the lack of experience requirements for a significantly higher post of deputy civil service - lower than for deputy director of departments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] In view of the fact that the proposed revision of the rules...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u205	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u206	...is linked to the drastic lowering of these standards, I wanted to ask you who you want to sit on these stools and if there are really better candidates. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u207	Thank you very much for the smooth questioning and, therefore, I inform you that the list of Members voted in has been exhausted. The Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Office of the Prime Minister, Ms Beata Kempa, will take the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u208	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, who wanted to ask questions, let me remind you once again, that the position of the Government of the Republic of Poland is not yet in the parliamentary bill, this position is being created and probably the consultations you have called for here, we have started or we will start. However, the questions that you have asked cannot remain unanswered. One at a time. Mr Szczerba here accused the project of being parliamentary. Why isn't the project government? Mr President, in accordance with the article. 118 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which you have been so often referring to lately, so it is also worth to educate about the content of many other important articles - I recommend here art. 118, where we are talking about who has a legislative initiative - such initiative has the President, the Senate, the Council of Ministers, Members of 15, just in our current order, as well as the citizens' legislative initiative, here the minimum of votes is 100,000. Therefore, it cannot be limited to the initiative of those who are entitled to this initiative under Article. 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This was the will of Members, we respect and sit on this will. Mrs Józefina Hrynkiewicz asked about the statistics on civil service duties. I've reached the data through our civil servants. By the way, I'm going to talk about high standards of operation. In 2012, there were 98 responsibilities, but when we came to power, after taking over and exercising them for about two weeks, it was about eight people. How long does it take to sort things out? We're trying to do this gradually. As regards the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, this requires, first of all, the amendment of the Statute of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Let me remind you that over 500 people are employed. Mr Gawron from Law and Justice has drawn the right attention. There were allegations here that democracy was being broken, that the government had not passed the bill, and that it was wrong, that the Members had passed the bill, that is also wrong. But Mr Gawron drew attention here to the very bad practice of previous years, when citizens' projects were thrown into the basket in a heartless manner, often those that had over a million signatures, and even there were ones that had over two million signatures of our Polish citizens. Mrs Anna Nemś from the Civic Platform asked here about the opinion of the Civil Service Council and asked for the position of the government. I have told a part of this, but we have the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office, the opinion which was commissioned by the office, which was prepared by Dr. Maria Gintowt-Jankowicz, who in my opinion is very reliable, very substantive and very objective, and certainly the opinion which can be guided by the work of this law, but it is always up to Members and the High House. All opinions are consultative, non-binding and this is obvious. I also want to quote on this occasion a position that affected my hands yesterday. This is the position of the Association of Graduates of the National School of Public Administration. It is an independent association of such graduates. A very interesting opinion, very comprehensive, which concludes that changes should be made in the Civil Service Act and that they should be of a systemic, holistic nature. They also point out that the Republic is facing challenges, that they, as a corps of civil servants, are aware of the evolution of these changes, and that it should, as I understand this opinion, also be adapted to civil service legislation. This is very balanced, as it stands for graduates of the National School of Public Administration. It is a national school, but it is an elite school and I will defend this school. I would like to say to you, too, because I see the honourable Mr Święcicki here, so I will immediately go to the answer to the question of the Member, I would just like to say, Mr President, that when it comes to the National School of Public Administration, no one other than the Civic Platform has significantly reduced the expenditure on this school and has no right to invoke any arguments that you have here... moral law, of course, because we have always the right to invoke arguments and views, but in this case, Mr, if you want to hit someone with a stone, you must first look into your own conscience and see if everything is okay. You have reduced your expenditure on training the elite of the Polish administration, and that is a fact. However, it can be considered, and even in this direction there were first talks, very polling, but very calm and substantive, during a meeting of the school board summary, the National School of Public Administration, such a possibility that the school will have an appropriate cycle of perhaps just training for staff, which will be highly specialised, because we need such staff today. Let me remind you, there is a new department in government administration, which is, for example, Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, which is an extremely needed Ministry, needed department to manage this important branch of our Polish economy. Here, very professional services are needed, including in the field of civil service. But we also talked about the issues of training, which may be worth it, to be provided by the National School of Public Administration, not by various types of entities, and perhaps very nicely sounding, but by entities which issued fairly high bills for training members of the administration. So that's another problem that's worth considering and it's worth talking about within the so-called generally. a broad view of the level of administration in Poland. As for Mr Grabec's question, because he said something hysterically about cutting off his head here, I would like to say clearly and clearly, once again, I spoke about it at the first reading of the parliamentary bill, that when it comes to civil service, we have 120,000 in resources. Staff and civil servants. We are talking here about the corps, the element associated with the number of 1,600 people who perform managerial functions, which does not mean, just as you here in a very unambiguous and hysterical way, that these 1,600 people will have their heads cut off. I think that if we meet in a few months, you will unfortunately have to cancel these opinions, because already today those who replace the directors of the departments, and thus replace them after 16 November 2015, i.e. after the rule of law and justice, are members of the civil service corps, so they are not their own, they are not members of the PiS, they are not members of Solidarna Polska or Poland Together - to a large extent they are people who have been asked to cooperate in high management positions, coming from the civil service corps, only because they are highly qualified, because they give a guarantee of proper performance of their duties, because they understand that they are reliable and professional, and very efficient, because here is still the issue of efficiency of administration, it is at this moment the key, one can say, over which we should also proceed... These persons were asked to cooperate as directors or deputy directors of departments or as directors-general. And that's the facts, and that's the facts you're not gonna scream. Mr Mosiński, from Law and Justice, was just talking about these elements of pathology that we have dealt with for many years: nepotism, collusion. You were also talking about mobbing. These are very sad situations, but they have happened. Unfortunately, this area of pathology has expanded considerably, and unfortunately, this issue needs to be combated, but this is not solved by any law. Here it all depends on what kind of people these offices will be, because if they represent this level of morale, we will always have to deal with this level of pathology. And such a feeling is primarily in Polish society, especially among parents who have very well and very thoroughly prepared their children who can't find a job just because they haven't had any deals so far. It's clear and obvious. Mrs Navel mentioned the issue of the apoliticality of the Head of Civil Service. You know, however, I am in favour of not really succumbing to any hysteria, hypocrisy or blindfolding, or, in short, not expressing judgments simply because we are in this or in another place on the political stage. Well, folks, we live in a free country and we're allowed to have political views fortunately. Right? That's right. I don't know people who would be free of any ideas, we all have them. The point is not to create fiction. If someone for five years, two years, just before he was a member of a political party, does he have ideas or not? So what's the difference, five years ago, or a few days before he takes up office, doesn't he have a party card? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Very big.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's face it. Let's face it. You also have certain political views and let us respect each other. [[Voice from the room: We're politicians.]] With regard to Mr Andrzej Kryj's question, if I have changed it well - if wrong, I apologize in advance - from Law and Justice, yes, you have mentioned a rather important one, and it is worth mentioning this without a shadow of hypocrisy, a certain irregularity, one can say, pathology which we have also noticed, and which is important from the point of view of a certain gradation, a certain order that should follow, a order that is in every company - in every company not only in our country, but in every other country of the European Union or in the world. It is so that the increasing rules, increasing certain amendments, certain conditions which took place year after year, led to such pathology that today it is so that many department directors earn more than the Secretary of State or the Constitutional Minister, ba, there are directors who earn more than the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland and the President of the Republic of Poland. These are facts, and indeed they will also come to us without the shadow of hypocrisy to face. Mrs Wróblewska from Law and Justice pointed out what, I think, was at the heart of the decision of the Members of the applicants, namely that the competitions were fiction. As we look at the statistics I quoted earlier, saying that more than 60%, close to 70%, of the people who stand for the competitions, these competitions win, it is already clear that in this situation the extension of the recruitment process, which can very quickly and very efficiently proceed to the implementation of the programme, is quite unjustified. Mrs Krynicka spoke about issues related to experience in a position with certain qualifications in various areas. That is why this is so necessary today, especially in the specialised sectors, as I have already mentioned, of the economic sectors that have arisen and which can contribute to economic growth. I don't think you can imagine that any boss would allow a department director or a person who is to perform a high management function to have no qualifications, just not be able to carry out the program, not be able to carry out their duties. It's obvious, and I think that supporting the argument that this is not the case may be based on the fact that you have had this experience. I can't imagine it myself. Were there such phenomena - Mr Górski asks - as in 2006, when a woman was fired for miscounted bags with the KPRM logo or moved to other sections? When I was preparing for today's speech, I consulted several officials, how they were treated after the end of the rule of law and justice in 2007, the coming into power of the Civic Platform, and I assure you that you would not want me to talk about these methods today, because that would be when you would have had to address the same communication that you have been making since morning, you would simply have to burn yourself out of shame. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: This is manipulation.]] As regards the question of Mr Tomasz Szymański from the Civic Platform, as regards legal bubbles, in the last eight years of our work in the Polish Parliament, we have often accused you of this just in the case of parliamentary projects - not only, for the government included a lot of comments and gaps - and in this situation it is more a political statement or calculated on political existence than the real fact that we can say. Of course, mistakes can always be made whether this is the High House, that is why there are legislators, that is why Members should speak and argue in these matters, but that does not mean that such opinions should be formulated unambiguously. Mr Kubiak from Law and Justice spoke about the competitions being set. I think we've actually been dealing with... that we've seen a recipe for so-called. a professional civil service corps in the years 2007-2015. That was the rule of the Owl and Friends. We don't recommend it. As for the question of Mr Wozniak of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is it true that the PO and PSL, by pushing the Law on the rationalisation of employment in the government administration, have done so. Yes, it is true that such a law was, and even more, please, today, in the reorganisation of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and the new structure - here I will refer to the next question, whether we are able to assess the administration, whether we are able to undertake a rational comprehensive reform of this large, very important element of life in the country - I have tried to assess whether these 10% actually succeeded. reductions in administration. Well, it didn't work. There was a lack of one element, namely will, determination, skills in organising such reforms, issuing appropriate commands and coordinating this reform. In short, this was lacking, and then there was the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr Beida of PSL. Indeed, Mr President, you are saying so much today, you are defending the Constitutional Tribunal, and I am just wondering why, since one in two is actually speaking from this speaker, this is the following message: this article and this article is incompatible with the Constitution. So you're judging from this speaker for the Constitutional Tribunal that something is against the Constitution. Then why would the Constitutional Tribunal want to go on with your reasoning? Mrs Możjanowska, mentioned here many times. Madam President, I too have very unpleasant experience with certain events related to the functioning of the Polish People's Party in the field of human resources policy. I encountered such a case on Świętokrzyskie's land, where a single mother who raised two children was fired, and then the statute was changed and two posts were created, attention to their own. That's exactly what happened. I serve, of course, not in public, with names, and I can bring this very, very sad situation up to speed. [[Mr Krzywonos-Strycharska: Excuse me, what did the Minister do about this?]] Mrs Gapińska from the Civic Platform. Here, Commissioner, I am not going to respond to the popularly announced slogans which, in my opinion, are harmful to the public. Perhaps these are the slogans that are being suggested to you by the PR. I suggest you change them. Do we want to... [[These are just facts.]] ...release 1600 members of the civil service and whether these are the consequences of human resources policy. The consequence of the Civic Platform's staff policy is that the Platform has lost. That's the consequence. human resources policy as well. On the other hand, we do not see here that there is such an assumption of a law, that 1600 workers should be fired at one time. Besides, the mechanisms provided for in this Act contradict that. Mrs Fabisiak asked about the requirements, about the criminal cards. I think that the Law and Justice formation introduced this in very many laws, for many, many years it has consistently increased standards, requirements, demanded it, and even if there was no such need formally, there were always certain statements or standards that are required, at least in terms of the requirements that society sets for us, they were met. Even if at some point someone would conceal such a truth and the truth would come out, you know what the decisions were, including the current Prime Minister's - instant and unambiguous - and such people did not occupy specific positions. Mr Edward Sulphur of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice asked if he had asked in any way Neither have we dealt with the destruction of the public administration, whether it is injured, or whether we provide for comprehensive solutions. Mr President, I agree with this ethos - and this is also what some members of the Civil Service Corps say - indeed did not go in the direction in which it should go, at least if we consider the assumptions, e.g. such as the establishment of the National School of Public Administration, although many members of the corps coming from this school or generally showing the highest standards in administration work today. Are we predicting a holistic solution? In order to proceed with a comprehensive solution, we need a diagnosis, a very reliable, not cursory, superficial, but very reliable, comprehensive assessment of the functioning of the administration in Poland. We are trying to make such a holistic assessment and for this purpose is created in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, after the liquidation of other departments, because this is not a new creation in the sense of the value of completely new employing new officials or costing the Polish budget, the Centre for Administration Assessment. After, I think, a very quick analysis of the evaluation of this administration will also be able to present proposals, and consequently legislative solutions, if they are needed, and today we can already see that they are. And Mrs Anna April of Law and Justice asked whether these changes would eliminate pathologies. In order to confirm that such pathologies have been encountered, she has also read some very sad transcripts. I think, Madame, that, to a large extent, when it comes to mechanisms, yes. I mean, we're not going to sanction fiction, we're not going to participate in fiction, and above all, whether or not we eliminate pathologies depends on personnel decisions. What HR decisions, such pathologies. And we've been dealing with this state of affairs in recent years. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally - we are moving on to civil servants - let me remind you once again, for the sake of order, that today the draft budget for the next year will come under discussion and here we have a three-year plan for the appointment of civil servants. We came in a little bit because we had to, there was no other way, like with this budget, in the shoes of our predecessors, but we're expanding these limits in the years to come. Let me remind you that in our years, in the years 2005-2007, we gave a much greater chance for more officials. It was a number, I repeat, well over 1400 - so many people had the opportunity, thanks to the decisions of the then government, to be promoted in civil service. After that, it was only worse, and you went down to the limit of 200 people. So we from the years 2017 to 2018 will increase this possibility of promotion for young, very well prepared, but above all we will also increase the successful people. And that is true when it comes to the question of the approach to professionalisation of the civil service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u209	Thank you very much. Marcin Święcicki wanted to be corrected, but to correct the misunderstood or misconstrued statement? [[Voice from the room: Both.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u210	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Application...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u211	But I asked you the question: Misunderstood or misconstrued?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u212	The corrigendum is that the Minister did not understand my question, because I did not ask about the funding of the school, but asked what you would say to the graduates of this school who studied in the ethos of statemen, apolitical people, neutral people who work in public administration and now will be fired. What answer will you give them to those states who wanted to serve free democratic Poland as politically neutral national workers, to serve the state well? Now you want to fire them. And that's the question I didn't get the answer to, and I got that platform reduced funding for...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u213	Mr President, the Minister will answer this question once again by speaking. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u214	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I recommend you read the justification. Graduates of the National School of Public Administration are officials appointed and cannot be released. There is a procedure which provides for how they should be provided with a job. That's the first line. As for the graduates of the National School of Public Administration, from this point of view I quoted the position of the Association of Public Administration Graduates, who made a clear and clear statement about the need for reform. So that I ask you to read - these people will not be released. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u215	Thank you very much. In this part of the discussion, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, only a small part of the questions concerned the subject... that is, it was addressed to the rapporteur and I will try to answer these questions. Namely, with regard to the question of Małgorzata Płępek, Member of the Civic Platform, regarding membership of the party, please note that in Article. 1 in the third amendment with figure 9 is very clearly stated that those in higher positions are not members of a political party. And under figure 9 in section b, the same applies also to deputies. That's the report. So there is no question of belonging to a political party, they cannot be members of a political party. As regards the questions, in fact a very large part of the questions, especially the terms expressed by Maria Małgorzata...I apologize, I apologise, I apologise, I apologise, I think that more experienced parliamentarians from the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club would not have said in this way. You just, uh, I have the impression that you haven't read the draft amendment... [[No...]] ...you were merely expressing your opinion here on the issue of a political party competing with PSL, the Law and Justice to which you are entitled, but the procedure for working on draft laws is that we refer to a specific draft amendment. If you are talking about mass redundancies or the destruction of the civil service corps - I have noted these two statements - I would very much ask you to read this bill. If you do not trust the designers, it is the opinion of the head and creator of the National School of Public Administration and the vice-president of the Civil Service Council, Professor Gintowt-Jankowicz, who very clearly states that, apart from the changes, there are extensive regulations on the grounds of establishing employment relationships in the civil service - there are no changes here - further, changes and appointments of employment relationships, obligations of members of the civil service corps, its powers, training, development in the civil service, and the principles of disciplinary responsibility. There's no change here, so there's no mention of the destruction of the civilian corps, it doesn't concern anything you said here at all. And now another part of this opinion: there remain as important issues for the civil service as the requirements of the applicant for appointment in the civil service, the procedure for qualifying for these persons, the directories of the powers and duties of the members of the civil service corps and other elements regulated by this service pragmatism. The examination of the proposed amendments and the provisions of the law in force therefore leads to the conclusion that, in the legal situation of those civil servants and servants who do not occupy the higher positions covered by the law in force, the adoption of the project assessed does not change anything. So it is not possible to talk about thousands of people who will be expelled from work because, sorry very much, the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs was not about working on the project you were talking about. As regards Mr Święcicki's statement and question concerning KSAP, this amendment also does not affect KSAP at all. [[Corrigendum.]] She expressed it - once again - the head, the creator, the long-term director, the head of the National School of Public Administration. Thus, speaking about the dismissals of thousands of people - that is not true, and also, ladies and gentlemen, calling and appeal does not mean dismissal, but a change of employment relationship, because if an employee is appointed and is dismissed from his post, e.g. Director, that doesn't mean he's out of the vending machine. He returns to the civilian service corps, from which he was, as it were, removed to his post. That's why there's no automation of thousands of redundancies here. I don't know how you came up with such exemptions on the basis of this bill. [[How many layoffs? How much, sir?]] And here's the last thing. You can only talk about intentions, but if we were to say, accuse that there may be bad intentions, but not the letter of this amendment, you know very well that it would be better for the Platform and PSL not to start this discussion. It would be better if they didn't start, because we could give examples here by night, how jobs were filled, how senior executive positions were filled. Mrs Józefina Hrynkiewicz asked about these very long periods of functioning in charge. Oh, yeah. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Exactly. In fact, there were such situations, e.g. Mr Lech Witecki, Head of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, has served many years. Years old. Maybe it wouldn't be weird, because the Platform had such a habit, but the problem was that this gentleman didn't pass the civil servant's exam twice and, as he explained, he claimed he had a lot of responsibilities and therefore couldn't prepare himself. This, ladies and gentlemen, at least take the opportunity to refer only to the letter of this amendment and so that we can discuss it... [[You're kidding me.]] ...and don't call in the pathology you're pushing, like it's reminiscent of history, for the purposes of a new revision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What's it really gonna be?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u217	Thank you. Misunderstood or misconstrued? [[Inaccurately quoted.]] Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u218	Mr President, I understand that, as a member of the Polish People's Party, I cannot, in your opinion, create a good law. That's your assessment, isn't it? Well, please, I'm explaining to you that I've been chosen over 19,000. Voices... [[Now there's no time for this kind of discussion.]] ...and I have the right to make a good law, and I have the right to pay attention to the bubble that you create. I asked a specific question: Are we working on an amendment that is post-communicative, or are we already working on a law in which the amendments that have been tabled will be made? You have not commented on this, and I would like you to comment on it, because if we are working on this amendment, I have drawn attention to the good solutions that were taken into account at first reading. I'm asking you specific questions about whether they've been completely eliminated, and that's what you didn't answer. And you're lying to reality again, and then it's a completely different proposal to amend the Civil Service Act. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u219	Mr President, do you still want to answer that question? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u220	Well, Madame, once again, she has proved that you do not want to see this draft amendment. [[Have you read this bill?]] Before or after these amendments, this law does not destroy the civil service corps. 130,000. officials, of which only about 1 000. These are higher positions, which is 129 thousand. It doesn't touch at all. And that's why, either before the amendments or after the amendments, it doesn't destroy the civilian corps. [[He's destroying the civilian corps.]] [[The voice from the room: It destroys, because it is illusory.]] If you think you're touching this, I'm sorry, but... [[Of course I do, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u221	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. Mr President, on what matter? [[I wanted to correct it again because you called me again.]] But what were you trying to correct? [[The point is closed.]] I think the rapporteur has already explained and answered the questions to the end... [[No, not really.]] We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on the system of education and certain other laws (prints Nos 106 and 148). I would like to present a report to the committee by Mrs Marzena Machalek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on the system of education and certain other laws, print No 106. I would like to remind you that the Marshal sent a draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Local Government for its first reading on 14 December 2015. The first reading and detailed examination of the project took place on 22 December 2015. I will remind you what the parliamentary project, which has been prepared with representatives of the Ministry, with the Ministry, contains. I think that the most important changes are: restoring the school obligation for children from the age of seven, the obligation to have one year preschool preschool preparation in a preschool unit called a 6-year-old child, the right of a child from 3 to 5 years of age to benefit from preschool education. The project also provides for the right to start education for a 6-year-old child at school at the request of the parents, provided that the child benefits from preschool education during the school year preceding the school year in which he is expected to start his primary school or to have an opinion from a psych-pedagogical counselor on the possibility of starting a primary school education. The project envisages the possibility for a 7-year-old child to postpone the school obligation. The starting of the child's obligation to be trained may be postponed by one school year if the child has the opinion of a psych-pedagogical clinic. Very important records are: the possibility, at the request of parents, of continuation by a child who has gone to school at the age of 6 years, to study in the first grade in the following school year, subject to the submission of an application by 31 March of next year, to introduce the possibility of deferring the obligation of trained children having a decision on the need for special education to 9 years of age, to postpone the deadline for conversion, and this is very important, preschool branches in primary schools in kindergarten from 1 September 2016 to 1 September 2019. The second part of the amendment concerns pedagogical supervision. Here we restore, strengthen the position of the education curator. We believe that the State should, the project assumes that the State should be responsible for education. This project aims to restore the curator's veto on school liquidation, the opinion of the school network, as well as the opinion of the plans to work to improve teachers. These are some of the changes that the project assumes. Let me remind you that 29 amendments were tabled during the reading, first reading and detailed examination. 14 amendments were adopted, mainly legislative, ordering. 15 amendments were rejected. Most of these amendments, not all of them, but most of these amendments have basically reversed the amendments proposed in the parliamentary proposal. They are included in the report as minority proposals. I would like to say at the end of my report that this project, I hope, will be adopted as soon as possible, will become a law, will become a law, because it is the answer to the expectations of millions of parents, millions of Poles who have been fighting dramatically for the welfare of their children over the last years, fighting for the right to decide about the shape of Polish education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u223	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I would remind you that these appearances should not exceed 5 minutes. I will ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Law on the Education System and certain other laws contained in prints 106 and 148. The essence of this project is to restore the school obligation for 7-year-olds and to grant parents the right to decide on the education of their children, as well as to strengthen the role of guardian of education. In the first 100 days of the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło announced this commitment in her exposé, and keeping it is an important part of a good change, so much expected by teachers... [[Voice from the room: Oh, very...]] [[Those fired.]] ...and especially by millions of parents who, in the vast majority of them, have failed to accept the pressured against their will to lower school duties, 6-year-old children. The platform and the PSL with stubbornness of a better case pushed for the inclusion of six-year-olds in school under the pretext of equalizing opportunities, and the real intentions were discovered by Minister Boni, who said that it was all about saving the pension system. It's a shame it was at the expense of the children. The parents focused on the movement of "Save the little ones" and ran a very broad information campaign, collected signatures under civil law projects, gathered over a million signatures under the referendum project on the subject. All those parent actions were thrown in the trash by you, through the Platform, through the PSL. The fact that parents did not accept this change is hard facts, such as that only a dozen percent of the six-year-olds went to school, to the first classes when there was a choice, and after you introduced the obligation, then many parents stormed the clinic to get a deferral for their children. The failure of this change, which you have pushed through, is also evidenced by the results of research carried out by the Institute for Educational Research. It turned out that math skills, reading, especially writing, 7-year-old children are higher than 6-year-old children. Remember, these research results are followed by specific children who have been exposed to school failures. [[Voice from the room: What scale is...]] This can affect their further education, and that is why we are restoring the principle that 7-year-olds are required to attend school, and parents can decide to send a six-year-old to school. This concerns, I stress, the entire year of six-year-olds, which is specified by one of the amendments that I am about to place on your hands by the marshal. In view of the proposed changes in committee work, there were actually no substantive criticisms. They were kind of foggy. visions of supposed chaos. If I were malicious, I would say that the visions of chaos were depicted by people from the previous ruling system, who had no equal in chaos, and chaos was brought here to absolute perfection. [[You're being mean.]] Let me put it this way: there will be no chaos. Moreover, the accusation that people are granted a choice for their parents when it comes to the education of their children is a charge in the mouth of people who admit to liberal views, quite intriguing, to say the least. It seems that it is a domain of totalitarian thinking that a politician, an official will decide the future of my children better than I myself - the parent of these children. So there doesn't seem to be any controversy here. Another element of a good change is the strengthening of the position of education curator by granting him the right of veto on the liquidation of schools. Here, too, there are voices that this is inconclusive to the idea of self-government. Nothing more wrong. The point is that the education curator should be a kind of arbitrageist in situations where the local government will want to eliminate the school against the will of parents and teachers. And we remember such a real tsunami of the liquidation of schools that took place in the last eight years. It can't be agreed to. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request the support of Members of all parliamentary clubs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u225	Mr President, time has passed. I remind you...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u226	...a proposal to amend the law at third reading, along with the amendments I submit to your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u227	Please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform by Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This bill, which at first glance seems to be such a sentimental return to the past, is in fact a devastating change in the Polish education system. I understand it's another installment of the so-called. PiS good change, that is, passwords that have become their own caricature in the last month. This is a change that, above all, affects children from disadvantaged backgrounds, will affect those children who are raised in more difficult than average conditions. I hope you realise that where children do not have educational incentives, where children grow up in an extremely difficult environment, it is so important for them to postpone their education by 1 year that it may weigh for their entire future life. So if this is the good change of the PiS-owska, congratulations on the cynicism. The second good change you are proposing is a situation where children who are in kindergarten today and have compulsory preschool education are to be a second year in this class, only in kindergarten. In this good change you propose that children of the second year repeat exactly the same material. Question: "Why?" The third good change is such a curiosal proposal that I honestly admit that for the first moment I thought it was a joke, which is a situation where you want your child, although he has very good academic results, to stay in the same class for the second year. [[That's a lie.]] Minister, I can't imagine anyone who was a teacher could sign this idea responsibly. [[You're lying.]] Do you realize the emotional and social consequences for these children? [[But don't lie to me.]] It's so psychic, it's really hard to imagine. So if this is the good change, congratulations on the good change. [[Have you read the bill at all?]] [[It's just a scandal to say things like that.]] Of course, what you are proposing will be very important not only for children, but it will also be important for early-school teachers, because if they come 1 September 2016 to take the first class, they will come and in many places this class will be empty. In addition to the fact that you unnecessarily expose your children to start their education later, you also expose many thousands of early-school teachers to a situation in which they will have no job for three consecutive years and this empty yearbook will go up. [[Cassandra, just Cassandra.]] I understand that the proposal to have children stay second year in first grade is a desperate attempt to save empty classes, which is before you. The most important thing about all of this is something that hurts me very much. I have such a feeling that the Minister has not noticed what the world is discussing about education in the 21st century. As if you hadn't noticed at all that the most important thing today is how a teacher should work with a child, whether he can individualize this job, whether he can open a child to risk, or if he can teach them how to work together. None... Don't smile. [[With sympathy.]] You just have no idea what the world is discussing today. You have no idea. [[Don't insult me.]] Please pay attention to this and address these changes in education that make sense and not return to the past, which will cause a lot of damage. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protas will address the Civic Platform on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years the local government has been responsible for implementing the State's education policy, for organising and conducting the education process efficiently, focusing on the quality of teaching and the introduction of modern educational solutions, building and effectively modernising educational and sports infrastructure. On the other hand, the primary task of pedagogical supervision is the concern about the quality of education and the curriculum. Therefore, the curator cannot be placed as a wizard of local education policy. Giving him the power to give a binding opinion on school and kindergarten networks, to liquidate institutions or to transfer them to associations or individuals is a return to bad practice, it is a denial of the idea of self-government and a violation of the good principle of subsidiarity. Will the school curator pay for running an empty school? Does combining classes in schools where there are no children serve to raise the level of education of these children? These changes, ladies and gentlemen, will also have [[♪ The bell ♪]] A very negative effect...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u231	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u232	...for government finances, once again. The mere withdrawal of six-year-olds to kindergarten is a deficit in local government budgets in the amount of approx. PLN 1.6 billion. Incalculable are the effects of...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u233	Mr President, I would like to remind you that the five-minute time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u234	...with the possibility - I'm almost done - to rationalise the school network. These are also negative effects that will affect the quality of public services provided by local governments, while local governments provide a percentage of...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u235	Mr President, in a moment I will have to use measures that I do not want to apply.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u236	...these services. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u237	I ask Mr Andrzej Maciejewski on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was honoured to present the opinion of the Kukiz club15 on the draft law amending the Education System Act and some other laws, prints no. 106 and 148. I will share our club time with Mr Jaskola, who will speak in the second part. High Seym! First of all, I would like to refer to the pace of work on the draft law submitted and the way in which it is consulted with the local community. The bill was submitted to the Sejm on 9 December, and on 14 December it was sent to the committee for its first reading. It can be seen that the Law and Justice are determined to implement the law as quickly as possible and thus to defy the execution of one of the electoral demands. So once again, party interests win with reason, and Law and Justice enter into shoes criticized not so long ago for the quality and lack of public consultation of the Civic Platform. We have a negative opinion from the writings we have. The Association of Rural Communities of Poland is opposed to the draft law. The Polish Districts Association is also opposed to the bill. [[But my parents are all for it.]] The local government is responsible for the organisation and financing of educational tasks. We believe that the law in this matter must be clear, predictable and long-term and cannot be done on the basis of: every election is a reform. The amendment of the Act will result in a disadvantage for local governments, reducing the amount of part of the general subsidy by about 1.6 billion and it is no secret that no one in the local government is making money. What's more, there's always a question of how much you have to add to it. The essence of the problem, actually, ladies and gentlemen, there are no children in the bill, there is no age, and there is money that needs to be spent on education. We hope that the issue of finance for local governments will be improved in the course of further work of the parliament. At this stage, the Kukiz Members' Club abstains from voting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Jaskoła. You're welcome. [[Once you object, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, I have to make an assumption because I'm a freeman and when I look at the room, it's mostly a problem that this room is divided into so-called. Socialists of believers and non-believers. The paradox is that the freedmen are sitting at Kukiz's... [[But you're telling me...]] ...on the left side. [[Voice from the room: Yes, nonsense.]] What's right about this bill? Undoubtedly, the fact that parents are restored to the right to decide when their children are going to school or if they are being coerced by school, that is to say, six - year - olds. There is no doubt, however, that there is some inconsistency here. In one case, we respect our parents, otherwise we do not respect their parents'decisions. Pay attention to that. Although I have spoken to the Minister on this subject, I would like to ask, because here is the problem of the 22 December regulation on the so-called. home education, which unfortunately causes huge changes and perturbations. As much as 40% of the base amount was cut from the so-called. home education. But in order for socialists to be no better than others, the Platform kept this base amount in its term of office. Long live socialism! What's worrying, unfortunately? The worrying thing is that the costs will actually be dropped on local governments. The power of the guardians of education is disturbing. I don't think it's a secret that these are political positions, regardless of the political option. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] I know a parole officer from the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen... [[And now you're gonna meet the PiS.]] Of all people. I'm saying you're all... I respect you, but you represent the party-social trend. [[Voice from the room: What about you?]] We're free. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Just like you.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, of course.]] That's why education needs to be promoted... [[You could see it at the grandstand.]] ...unpublic, and that's why, if you want to change anything in education, you have to introduce a school voucher, you have to... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: What do you suggest?]] ...to give parents the opportunity to act and choose. [[But we have given this opportunity, sir, we have.]] The question of opening schools, the domination of the probation officer. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that legal persons, local authorities, when opening a public school, must have a positive opinion of the curator. Well, it's a joke. If you had shown this in the United States, you would have been laughed at. Except we love laws and hundreds of regulations. And we have the worst universities in Europe, well, except maybe Albania. However, Americans do not have a single law on education and have the best education, with so-called domination. Ivy League. Yeah, yeah, not every university... [[It's a risky thesis.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Less risky.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u241	Mr President, speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u242	And one last thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u243	You're welcome...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u244	Thank you very much. Long live freedom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u245	I'm very happy for you. [[Voice from the room: And freedom.]] And to speak on behalf of the Modern Posel Club... [[Voice from the hall: And you vote in favour or you hold back.]] [[We're holding on.]] ...please, Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer. [[Voice from the room: Will you be behind surveillance too?]] [[Please respect my opinion.]] [[Voice in the O.R.: They're holding.]] Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u246	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I find it hard to resist the impression that this project, like many others, is a project written on the knee again by a group of Members, written to speed up certain things that should not be accelerated. I believe that education is one such department that needs to be discussed calmly, because it has very long-term effects. It is therefore unfortunate that this project, which has 35 pages, had to be equipped with 14 pages of amendments prepared by the applicants at the first reading stage. This demonstrates its quality as badly as possible. It is also worrying that this is another project that has been carried out without public consultation. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinions that have come to us are the worst. Both the position of the Polish Districts Association and the opinion written in the form of an open letter to the Minister Zalewski of the Pedagogical Science Committee of the Polish Academy of Sciences show that this is not a good direction of change, the one proposed by this law. [[You have to listen to your parents.]] They show that we're going backwards instead of moving forward. If the state treats one group of parents, which are the parents represented by the foundation, save the little ones, as representative of society as a whole, it is not good. Let us remember that our voters are not all citizens in this country. Let us remember that there are different opinions in this society and that it is worth listening to opinions from different backgrounds. I wanted to point out that the lack of respect for opinions, e.g. scientific bodies are characteristic of your group, which is best demonstrated by how you treated all the legal opinions concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. [[It's a broken record.]] The PiS also loves to stress the issue of disregard for social initiatives. On the other hand, the state treated the public in the same exact way, rejecting the request for a public hearing. Rejection of a public hearing is nothing but disregard for public opinion. Now about the flaws of the project. First of all, I wanted to say that I was happy to accept the information presented here by the representative of the PiS that there will be an amendment on the equalization of the situation of parents of students who are six years old... [[It's in.]] ...in the next year, they will not have to consult pedagogical psychology if they have previously received preschool care. This is a very important change, because it was precisely a denial of what we could call the choice of parents. I am therefore happy and thank you for this change. In this situation, I can withdraw one of the minority amendments that we have proposed. [[Thank you.]] On the other hand, what I consider to be the manifest errors of this law. The first is that 5-year-olds cease to be subject to compulsory education. So far, one of the biggest advantages of the previous change was that 5-year-olds had already entered the educational system. Let me remind you that all world research shows that the sooner the child gets into the education system, the more progress he makes and the better he is in the future both in the education market and in the labour market. [[That's not true.]] Yes, sir. The research you were talking about... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Of course I do.]] [[And Finland?]] On the other hand, the research you were talking about is comparing six. - and seven-year-olds don't make sense. It is worth comparing six-year-olds participating in preschool education with those six-year-olds who benefit from school education. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: This is better.]] This comparison makes sense, and it clearly shows that those six-year-olds who benefit from school education get much better results. And if we're referring to Finland, you have to see what their preschool education stage looks like... [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Preschool stage.]] ...how many children participate in it and what progress they are already making at this stage. An additional mistake of this law is the rush in which it is introduced, that we do not have studies on how many three-year-olds will not find preschool care, how many parents will have to take private preschool care instead of public preschools. In larger cities - Wroclaw, Warsaw - this year there was a problem, next year, when six-year-olds return to kindergarten, it will only grow. The change that is being denied by all is that seven-year-olds whose parents ask for it by 31 March will be able to stay in the second year of the first class. This change doesn't defend itself, no one defends this change. All the psychologists, all the educators think it's both... [[It's just an extension.]] ...a very bad signal for these children, meaning the first school failure, as well as the organizational problem for a school that doesn't really know what to do with such children from April 1st to June 31st. The previous coalition made a lot of mistakes sending six-year-olds to school. First of all, she didn't convince the public. This is the biggest mistake she's ever made. The next mistake was to introduce this in the form of sending a year-and-a-half year-old children in two consecutive years, so that there were no seats in the common room, very often classes are overloaded, but at least schools... [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we have two shifts.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u247	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u248	But instead of tearing it down, it is worth talking about how to improve, how to make the Polish school better. Consciousness and desire to change...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u249	Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u250	...it's not good for change. It will never be the best, good change for Poland to act as part of populism and to ensure that its voters achieve their goals. [[You have to listen to Poles.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u251	Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u252	That's why we're against this change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u253	...to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party by Mr Marek Sawicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u254	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party to present our position towards the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the law on the system of education and some other laws, contained in prints no. 106 and 148. My previous speakers have already addressed many issues in detail and many provisions of this law, so I will try not to repeat them. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that the whole idea of this law does not correspond with the historical programs of both the Law and Justice and the Polish People's Party. I remember 2005 when the Law and Justice programme wanted to introduce an earlier school obligation at the age of 6, and I am convinced that if it had not interrupted the 2007 term of office by its own stupidity, this school obligation would have been introduced by 2009. Then, when we were preparing for this change for a period of 10 years - perhaps not all yet 100% is realized and added - Law and Justice under the influence of the opinion of the Elbanowskis and a group of parents decided to use the populist line and from this way of reforming to come down. I would also like to say that what I personally am not surprised by, because it has already become the tradition of this term, is indeed a haste and so-called. Knee making law. Mr Dolata spoke a little bit about this, and Mrs Lubnauer also spoke a little bit about it. The original parliamentary project, declared by the will of the nation, and without public and local consultation, the draft by the authors brings 14 pages of amendments to the parliamentary project at the first reading stage. But, interestingly enough, in this second reading, Mr Dolata has tabled further amendments, which I do not yet know, but we will certainly be familiar with this in a moment after this debate. What emanates from the change is primarily centralization. This is the main purpose of the PiS: disbelief of local governments, disbelief of the field administration. After all, the voivodships and vice-voivodships, whose numbers have increased, are called from your own political message. I ask: Why do you not trust that they will properly appoint and supervise the guardians, but transfer these powers to the minister as if you did not believe your officials in the field? You give the curators much more authority so that today the curator decides for the local government not only about the network of hours, but also about many deeper organizational issues. In fact, funding is still on the side of local governments. It was worth a public consultation with the local government, at least in this regard. The views expressed here by local authorities, also outside the voice of Law and Justice, are devastating for this project. So sometimes it may be worth listening to the public's voice a little bit and slowing down the pace of work to improve their quality. Since the state has notified changes to the project regarding the issue of free choice of parents, this will no longer be divided into the first half of the year, the second half of the year and that no opinion will be required here... [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Legal.]] [[Pedagogian.]] ...pedagogical on the possibility of admitting a child. Today, with the fact that 7-year-old, 6-year-old, so to speak, a child would have to look for such an opinion, you're retreating, so it won't be in my amendment either. On the other hand, I would like to make it clear that I am proposing an amendment in which the appointment and dismissal of curators, vice-curators, should be transferred to the hands of the voivods and not to the minister of education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u255	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an amendment. Thank you very much. I am closing the list of Members who have signed up to ask questions. You're welcome... [[I wanted it corrected.]] But correcting what? [[I misunderstood my speech.]] Here you go, quick.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr Sawicki misunderstood my statement. I wasn't talking about some kind of knee lawmaking, but on the contrary. I think that this law was probably the best consulted of all the laws that are being prosecuted in this Sejm, it has been consulted for years, first of all. [[Voices from the hall: No...]] Secondly, Mr Lubnauer, for example, that we are making amendments, shows that we are listening to the opinions, to the voices, as Mrs Lubnauer said. So make up your mind. Whether we're listening or not...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u257	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u258	... whether we're working too fast or too slow. [[At night, on your knees and in a hurry.]] I believe that we are working so that we can implement a good program for Poland as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u259	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. Let me remind you, the list is closed. Question time is 1 minute. I am very fond of reminding you Members that time is passing. I am quite convinced, knowing your experience and knowledge that this time will suffice. Here we go. Ms Bożena Kamińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This change in the education system is taking a step backwards and confusion in schools for two years. Whether the revolutions of Law and Justice in the education system are so-called. A good change? Parents are accompanied by doubts and anxiety, among others. as regards the possibility of applying to leave the child in the first grade for the second year. What will the work of these students be like next year? Are they going to repeat the same material twice, or are they going to pursue a different programming basis prepared by the Law and Justice? Does the Ministry have any expertise on the emotional consequences of a 6-year-old's first-year-old child's repetition? In optimistic visions of local governments many Polish cities pay attention... I have here, among other things. information from your city, Suwałk, 68 thousandth city, where it is shown in analyses [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u261	Member, time has passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u262	...that together with the classics in the schools will be less than 20 branches, which means the teachers will lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u263	Member, let me remind you that time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u264	On a national scale, they will be thousands of teachers who will lose their jobs. How much are they gonna be...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u265	I'm asking you, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u266	...costs of this reform of law and justice? And what will be the cost of this reform for parents and local governments? Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u267	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, from the same club, I ask you to ask me a question. Let me remind you that time is one minute. [[Voice from the room: So short?]] [[Voice from the room: It's too short.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns Art. 2 draft law relating to the distance of a child, with the maximum distance that a child can overcome, subject to either a pre-school obligation or the right to that pre-school education. This road should not exceed 3 km. The question is this: Does this mean that parents who are driving a child near their workplace will not be able to do so if this road exceeds 3 km? That's one thing. Secondly, it is an obligation imposed on the organisers of the educational system, i.e. on the municipalities. From how many children will have to build a kindergarten, if the next one is 3.5 km from one paddle or two, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or 15?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u269	Thank you very much. Time's up, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u270	And who's gonna finance that kindergarten? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, also from the same club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u272	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The old memories of a spell. Do you remember that when you were a member of the opposition, it was a public hearing for you? Not just words. We gave in to your charm, and what happened? [[Applause]] We did a public hearing because we thought that a public hearing was really needed. We were in a hurry, oh, we were in a hurry, and yet... Minister, what happened to you? Why don't you want to have a public hearing? Why did you vote against a public hearing? The Minister, many teachers, voted in favour of the change on 25 October, wanted this change. And now they're saying yes, we wanted to, but not that kind of change. Well, I'm not surprised, they're afraid of losing their jobs. And therefore, Minister: Will you pay those parking teachers? The point is, they won't be working for a year and another year, for a whole cycle of education. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[You're not worried.]] What are you gonna do with the teachers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u273	Thank you for asking the question. I ask you to ask the next Member. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u274	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If parents can send six-year-olds to school voluntarily after the change, how can they plan a school year? There is no way to predict exactly how many classrooms there will be in the classrooms and how many children there will be in them. No precise answer will be given to school heads or local government officials on whose behalf I ask. So how do we plan our budgets? Self-governments are afraid of this chaos. Then it is not known how many children will go to elementary school and how many will stay in kindergarten. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: But it is written.]] It is difficult to determine the number of teachers required under such conditions. The most likely problem of the lack of effective planning will occur in local governments as early as 2017: the attendance data of Class I from the previous year will not give them any basis for accurate calculation of education budgets. In this House, too many laws do not matter to the local government and here we have another tangible example of this poor style of lawmaking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u275	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Rosa from the same club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u276	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. The first concerns whether you have a government, as Law and Justice, how many places you will run out of in kindergartens, in kindergartens for three-year-olds. 'Cause if six-year-olds go back to kindergarten, it's really gonna be a lot of room for three-year-olds in kindergarten. Will the parents have a situation where they will be dismissed from this kindergarten, unable to leave their children in kindergarten, or will they be forced to pay for the kindergarten within their own budget? And second question. Are new curricula in place? School curricula for six-year-olds in kindergartens and seven-year-olds in classes I. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Szłapka, the same club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u278	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I also have a short question about local governments, namely: How will the proposed bill affect in an organizational and especially financial way, local governments? Here, please give me a precise answer. Please do not answer that it will touch to a small extent, because we know that every interference in education affects mainly local governments, and education subsidies for local governments are insufficient and do not cover up to 80% of how much local governments spend on education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u279	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u280	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In the draft law it is proposed to depart from the class of mixed ages. Why, therefore, does the Law and Justice Government propose moving the yearbooks postponed last year and bringing them together with 6-year-old children who, at the request of their parents in the school year 2016/2017 will start schooling in Class I? Wasn't the formation of mixed classes recently criticized by Law and Justice? This proposal, after all, this solution causes exactly the same, i.e. the formation of mixed classes, only in a different way. I have such a strong impression that we are once again dealing with double standards, i.e. if any proposal is made on the part of the Platform, then of course this idea is criticised, it is hopeless, but if the same proposal falls on the part of the Law and Justice, it is of course a great proposal, the right solution to the problem. My second question is also reflection. Results of studies conducted by the Higher School of Social Sciences of the Pedagogium [[♪ The bell ♪]] in 2014 show...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u281	Mrs. Eve, time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u282	...that as much as 74% Parents have positively assessed the process of adapting 6-year-olds to school...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u283	Ask me a question because I'm gonna have to take measures...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u284	Marshal, one more second, please. [[Voice from the room: But not so harshly.]] ...and a bunch of them thought that the kids had no problems finding themselves in the new school reality.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u285	Question, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u286	At the same time 21% The parents showed that the children had some minor emotional problems. My question: Shouldn't the Ministry of National Education focus on improving the quality of education and improving the conditions in schools, rather than turning back by force, manually well-managed reform? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u287	Thank you very much, Member. I ask you to ask Mr Andrzej Halicki from the same club. There's no envoy. Mr Jan Grabiec from the same club is next. Are you an MP? [[Your marshal, there's no club like this: the same.]] [[Voice from the hall: There is no such club.]] I'm sorry. Parliamentary Club Civic Platform. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly. Bravo!]] I thought we'd speed things up, but if you'd like to... [[Voice from the room: Less words...]] [[We do.]] ...I'll read the full name every time. [[After all, this is less than the same club.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u288	Thank you very much, Marshal, for not telling me the full name of the club. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about the situation of six-year-olds. I happen to be the parent of a girl who turns six next year. This year he learns in kindergarten, starts counting, reads pretty well, recognizes letters. The proposal proposed by the applicants assumes that next year she should start school again in kindergarten... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: No, sir...]] ...and again since the beginning of the year... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska:...will decide what she will do.]] ...to learn how to draw tracks. [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: No.]] This is a recommendation coming directly from the project. Yes, the project allows the child to go to first class, yes, in spite of the general standard of first-grade age. Is the Minister going to carry out [[♪ The bell ♪]] Information action...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u289	Mr President, time has passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u290	Thank you very much. ...to inform the parents of six-year-olds that they will harm their children if they use the provisions of the bill to force their children to go back to the same class and learn the same content again?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u291	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u292	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u293	You're welcome. The next question will be asked by Mrs King Gajewska from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear High Izbo! Mr Reporter, if there were a data manipulation competition today, I think you would have won a gold medal. The law should be based on social expectations, on hard data, on research, not on sentiment and lying data. We have to deal with experts' opinions, listen to them and debate them. Ladies and gentlemen, the sooner the child is in kindergarten, the better his chances of success in adult life. [[How do you know that?]] This is shown by all the data and it would be worth getting acquainted with them. Thanks to well organized educational activities in the first years of pre-school and school children, social costs related to the fight against unemployment, crime, social care, marginalisation of certain social groups are reduced in the future. Participation in kindergarten for 4-year-old, 3-year-old and younger children has a positive impact on their development, especially when they come from socially neglected backgrounds. Ladies and gentlemen, these neglected social environments were just your electorate, and it was you who screamed that you wanted to take care of them. So now [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question, based on what kind of research...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u295	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u296	...do you propose to reduce the age of school duty? Because you have to lean on one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u297	Please take the floor and ask the next Member, Mr Mark Hok, from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u298	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In the explanatory memorandum to the proposed law, there is a provision that says that the infrastructure part of schools is not prepared for the adoption of six-year-olds. How do you get such information, which is false information... [[Voice from the room: This has been checked...]] ...and hurtful to most local governments, who have devoted enormous funds from their own budgets to infrastructure renovations, equipment, the purchase of teaching equipment? Why aren't you using other information? After all, almost two years ago, in 2014, NIK carried out a check and covered almost 7 thousand. schools. And what was the result of her report? That's, uh, 98%. institutions have appropriate teaching aids prepared. Reporter, 97% institutions... [[Voice from the hall: Why did you lose the election? I don't know. That's so great.]] [[Because you promised people too much.]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u299	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u300	...has adapted classrooms, 90% has the right furniture for six-year-olds, 82% has properly adapted libraries for these children. Sir, 100%. institutions... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Did you read the notes?]] ...insures students of places to leave their books for education, in 97% is the possibility of eating a meal. So, you're saying that the local governments, when they put up this kind of money, didn't prepare schools to accept six-year-olds? Listen to the local government, listen to the people, listen to your parents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u301	Thank you very much. The question is raised by Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u302	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. Why don't you want to give our children a chance to have a fair start with their peers in Europe? Education in this developed part of Europe begins at the age of 5 or 6. This will end in the lack of opportunities to compete in the education market and, consequently, also in the labour market. My second question. Why do you not trust Polish self-governments, who for 25 years have proven that they can best cope with providing services, also educational services for children and young people? Why don't you trust them? Why do you want to limit Polish self-government by giving the powers of the curators significantly? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u303	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Mark Grunkle, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u304	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Above all, the school needs stability, predictability, long-term strategy and progressive development. The proposed changes by PiS are the introduction of a mess that will have to clean up the local authorities and retreat a few steps back. [[You can't move back.]] The experience of several years has shown, Minister, that 6-year-old children are well placed in the school environment. They are absorbing knowledge, and in the vast majority they reach school maturity. The world has moved on, and I don't know why you don't want to see it. Why are you ruining a good reform that has brought tangible benefits to the students and has proven itself? Why don't you allow six-year-olds, and instead you don't adjust those schools that are still in trouble? That's one thing. And secondly, why aren't you watching the effects just to correct it, not reverse the whole reform and turn it upside down? It's not like we're any worse than the others. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the countries of the European Union which have reduced this age. What's that supposed to do? 'Cause it's definitely not good for the baby. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u305	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Ursula Augustyn, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Membership! The minister's a little younger than me, so I'm gonna have to go for that age thing. I'm sure you have children at this age that you're not six years old, your grandchildren are probably not there yet, but I have a question for the Minister: when was the last time you saw a six-year-old when you were able to play with a six-year-old, and do you know how a six-year-old is developing today? [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Yes, I know.]] Because those six-year-olds, the minister, who were our children a long time ago, they had completely different stimuli, different developments. [[Voice from the room: But the brain doesn't change.]] So you don't believe in the possibility of six-year-olds? Certainly not, because in your programme in 2005, six-year-olds were planned as primary school students. [[Are there other elements of your program...]] Then why did you decide not to do it? You were frightened by one parent's association. One. Because if you looked at the tests, for example. Pedagogium, that's where the parents of the students who became first-class students at the age of 6, in over 80% say that they would do it again, are happy with the fact that [[♪ The bell ♪]] their children became first-class students at the age of 6. So I understand that we're not talking about the child's welfare today, we're talking about political projects. Is that so? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u307	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Mark Owowa, the Civic Platform Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During her exposé, Prime Minister Beata Szydło said: our government's programme can be summarised in one sentence: firstly, development, secondly, development, thirdly, development. Meanwhile, the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Education System, tabled by the PiS Members, is undoubtedly anti-development. Because how else do you call a law that assumes that you will not use the most important capital at your disposal, i.e. intellectual capital of Poles? How can you talk about development without caring about the intellectual development of the youngest generation? So I have a few questions. Do PiS Members think that the youngest Poles are less talented than their peers in Europe? [[Demagogue.]] Why opinions were ignored, among others. The Polish Teachers' Association or local corporations? Do you realize that the effects of this change will be much longer than the lasting destruction of Poland and democracy of the PiS government? In the end, I was going to appeal to the personal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister's experience. As you know, she sent her son to school when she was 6. Wasn't she motivated by concern for his development? Why do you not want to give this opportunity to all Poles? [[Applause]] [[But six-year-olds can go to school.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u309	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ewa Drozd, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u310	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Let me remind you that the reform from which you are retreating today has been implemented for several years. It gave us a chance to develop children faster, bringing us closer to the standards of the European Union. It was implemented in close cooperation with local authorities. Although this cooperation was not easy, I would remind you that the government supported local governments through a programme such as the Joyful School. Because you don't make that kind of change overnight. Guess you guys don't think so. Hence so many doubts and questions. And I have a few too. How are you going to compensate for the loss of local government budgets due to the lack of subsidies? Let me remind you that many local governments have already adopted a budget resolution, where a subsidy is planned for six-year-olds. Will the government and how will it support local governments in creating new places in kindergartens that will certainly run out for the youngest children? I think you also realize that many directors will be forced to [[♪ The bell ♪]] to create two-year classes, and this is not the best solution. I understand you've prepared educational programs adapted to work in such classes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u311	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Hanajczyk, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u312	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Most highly developed countries have long introduced a schooling obligation since they were six years old. Just mention countries such as Germany, Portugal or Norway. But often the example of Britain, the paradise where Poles are fleeing, falls from this pulpit. Can you answer why, in Britain, children start to go to school in the first semester after their fifth birthday... [[That's a question for the UK government.]] But you'll allow it. ...and in practice, even parents send their children early? Are you aware of any data about the protests of Polish families that children are being harmed by such solutions and that the education system in the British Isles should be changed? I would like to say, by the way, to remind you: the signature under the referendum request does not mean that the person signing under it is in favour of a school obligation for six-year-olds or against, only that he wishes to comment on it. And specific questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who did you consult with... [[Why'd you throw it in the trash?]] ...because this is your second nature, the above project? What kind of specialists, institutions? And did you take into account the opinion of the education board? What is your idea of hiring teachers who lose their jobs if their parents don't decide to send their children to school? And a very specific question: What are the anticipated costs, in zlotys, of this reform? I ask, because the term which you use too much - the slight one - is not convincing at all. First of all, the question is: What are the financial consequences for local governments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u313	Thank you very much. Please keep an eye on the time limit. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The reform has numerous social and economic impacts in many areas. First of all, it's for the kids. Proposal on the possibility of returning the child to kindergarten, the possibility of repeating the first class: Did the authors of the project ask themselves questions about emotional and social consequences for children? It's a lot of stress and at the same time it hurts the children. Impacts on teachers. A large group of initial teachers will remain unemployed - that is the reality. What's the number, and then what about this qualified group of teachers? Impacts on local governments. I'm after consulting the local authorities on this. It is the local governments that will bear the financial consequences of this reform. First of all, there will be fewer places in kindergartens for three-year-olds, and second of all, the financial consequences will be, according to current estimates, from several to several million zlotys depending on the size of the local government. How will these financial consequences be compensated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u315	The question is asked by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u316	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Another argument, one of the main arguments used by the applicant for the proposed amendment, is that the reduction in the age of school duty was introduced against the will of the majority of parents. With all due respect to the Members of the applicant, given even the number of signatures that have been collected under the citizens' proposals to restore the school obligation since the years 7 or the more collected signatures under the educational referendum, which state is sure that the number of parents most interested in this was the number, the parents of children who are about to start school education in the system since the years 6? In this connection, I would like to ask the Members of the applicants first of all, but I would also like to address this question to the Ministry, because the Ministry had to read the opinions that should have been formulated on this project: Has anyone asked the parents themselves who had already sent their children? Have these studies been carried out? Is the analysis of the studies [[♪ The bell ♪]] was conducted also among those teachers who conduct classes with 6-year-old children? Have the voices of those who feel that this solution is good for our young people even been taken into account? [[They were taken into account.]] And that's also what I'm saying as a son of a few years old... [[Voice from the hall: Father, as a father.]] ...the father of a primary public school student. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u317	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Schmidt, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u318	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo!.... [[Oh, something, Jackie, we don't know about you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u319	But I ask you all to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u320	There are several reasons for 6-year-olds to start education, organized formal education. These are neurophysiological, psychological, and social arguments. I would like to point out that the problem is not whether children are prepared for education, but whether schools are prepared for the adoption of six-year-olds. And if we have reservations in this area, I would call for all the energy and concentration of the Ministry to focus precisely on improving infrastructure conditions, teaching conditions, teacher education, rather than withdrawing from the reform that has been carried out. Early in Europe, children start their education in Northern Ireland, because in 1989 the obligation to educate 4-year-old children was introduced. [[They want out of this.]] I didn't get that kind of information. There are many studies that indicate just that 6-year-olds are absolutely prepared to take up education. Answer the question... [[Voice from the room: Not all.]] ...how our children are different from children from Western countries, where education begins just [[♪ The bell ♪]] Before? We don't see any and we don't hear any scientific reasons. Why do you want to delay our children from 130 countries' peers, an annual delay in emotional, cognitive and practical development? Children learn from coming into the world and love doing it because they are interesting in the world, and you want to deprive them of it. What are you trying to save our little ones from? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u321	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u322	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're talking about six-year-olds here, and I have a question about three-year-olds. If six-year-olds go back to kindergarten, then what happens to three-year-olds? Does the Ministry of National Education have any data on the number of places in preschool institutions? According to the information provided by those responsible for education in the media, if six-year-olds are added to kindergarten, it will be difficult for us to provide a place for three-year-olds in kindergarten. That's what he says. Mr Olszewski, Chairman of the Rural Union. And so in Bydgoszcz there will be 8677 places for kindergarteners, in Opole 1374 places, in Białystok 4487... [[Voice from the hall: But for three-year-olds.]] ...places, in Krakow 12 thousand. Places... [[Voice from the hall: But this is a mistake, because for some there will be none.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...and in Warsaw 34 thousand. Places. Of course, it is possible to take into account non-public institutions, but in this situation there will still be a deficit of these places. [[We can do this.]] What about these kids, then? [[Rydzyk's father will be sent.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u323	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u324	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The bill doesn't force... it doesn't prohibit sending six-year-olds to school. Contrary to what you're trying to tell the public... [[A voice from the hall: Gracefuls!]] ...parents will also have the right to send 6- and even 5-year-old children to school. If it is true that most will think that it will serve their children, they will send them to school calmly and there will be no problem. So far, you've forced your parents to prove... [[Question!]] ...that their 6-year-olds are dumber than... [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] ... the rest of the yearbook, and thus the school obligation could be deferred. [[That's not true.]] Today, parents will have the right to send their child to school. If they think it's better, they'll do it quietly. One of the members of the Platform outragedly stated that the curator was to create education policy. He said it outrageously, but that's his job, because it's the state that's going to create education policy, not every local government separately. Policy-making by individual local authorities has led to this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that in some municipalities all public schools were closed down and transferred to associations or handed over to municipal companies. And that's exactly the model of education policy you'd like to put in place. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u325	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Andzelika Możjanowska, club PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The baby's like a plant. If you take care of her, a beautiful flower will grow. I'm sure the Minister will agree with that. For several years we have been implementing the obligation to take care of this youngest generation through the longest parental leave, through the so-called. The lawnmowers that will come into force from January this year... [[Voice from the hall: Kosiniakowe...]] [[Platformiane.]] ... through mowers, through nursery care, the programmeMilch, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Come on, preschool care. Minister, I would like to guarantee that, indeed, institutional care in crèches will be guaranteed for all 3-year-old children in 2017 and that local governments will not have any financial deficiencies in terms of security and school subsidies under the guarantee for these children in schools, because this is extremely important. And one more question. Whether the curatoria, in addition to the fact that they will have the power to appoint or restrict the functioning of school units, [[♪ The bell ♪]] will they also have additional budgetary resources to help those local authorities that will need this financial support for the functioning of these schools at risk? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u327	Thank you very much. I invite Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u328	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What was the public consultation on changes in the education system law, we all know. An example is the situation of the foundation for education. The content opinion prepared by her was correctly submitted at the Sejm Office on 14 December, but was not included in the official register. The officials responsible for its publication informed the Foundation that such an opinion had not reached them, although the Foundation had confirmation of its submission. Previously, the Foundation received written assurance from the Minister of Education that it cares about multilateral discussions and substantive reflection. I ask: Why was this public voice ignored in the consultation? In view of the data provided by local authorities in all cities in Poland there will be no places for children of 3 years, also in non-public institutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parents whose children do not get into kindergarten will suffer the social and financial consequences of such a situation. It is therefore important to ask how this problem will be resolved. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u329	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware of the great plarum that politicians of the Civic Platform and PSL are raising in connection with the so-called. Six-year-olds bill. Minister Kluzik-Rostkowska talks about 20% of deferred children: We have only 20% of deferred children who are unfit for Class I, and they are children who are really delayed by the clinic at the request of parents. Whether it's a lot or not, I leave it unanswered. I would like to ask the Minister: Have there been studies done by the previous team, what percentage of 6-year-olds who are in school as six-year-olds, are not doing well and what may be the consequences in the future? If there hasn't been any such research, I'm asking the Minister to run it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u331	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Anna Cicholska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u332	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I held a number of meetings and discussions with trade union representatives, school heads and pedagogical supervisors on the proposed changes in education law. The vast majority of my speakers expressed the view that it was necessary to strengthen the role of pedagogical supervision. It is currently run in residual form, ladies and gentlemen. So-called. Evaluation of the learning process does not fully reflect school work. Schools have a significant impact on the recruitment of teachers and the appointment of directors. To some extent I understand local government policy, because if they finance schools, they want to influence them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[It's obvious.]] In this connection, I have a question: How does the Minister see the cooperation of the local government with the school curator in implementing the education policy of the State in order to improve school work? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u333	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mrs Bernadet Krynicka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Referring to Mr Mark Hok's statements and the results of the NIK audit, I would like to quote the text that Kwiatkowski received from Bury. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] But the NIK could do the pleasure of the government... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...and make a quick ad hoc check as the schools are prepared to accept six-year-olds, because today the media reported that it is up to d... [[And you say that?]] [[That's a quote.]] Of course, the Supreme Audit Office checked the preparation of schools for the adoption of six-year-olds. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The result was delightful. All schools are perfectly prepared to accept six-year-olds. I have a question for the Minister. [[Classy.]] How Polish schools were actually prepared to accept six-year-olds... [[Voice from the room: Very good.]] ...and under what conditions do the youngest citizens learn? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But what are you suggesting? Forgery? To the D.A.'s office with stuff like that, not to the Seym Council.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u335	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Bożena Henczyca, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! For the past few years, I have been a wojew in a small Perz community in the Kępin County and I know how much effort it has been, but it has also been a success to implement the Act on Six-year-olds. I am sure that children are safe and can develop from an early age, and now for no reason we will fund parents, local governments, schools and, above all, children with another upheaval. Therefore, I have a question: Does the Ministry of National Education have data on the expected number of students who can stay in the first grade? If, as a result of changes in the education system, the programme basis changes, it is obvious that the textbooks will have to be changed. Are there calculations of the costs of this change and when will a new programming basis be developed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u337	Thank you, Member. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u338	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Do you really, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, not see any positive reasons for school education for 6-year-old children? Have you read the arguments 74% parents who support the school education of 6-year-olds? Why doesn't Law and Justice love our children... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] ...our 6-year-olds, seven-year-olds, five-year-olds, three-year-olds? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Do you love?]] [[The voice from the hall: The truth has come out!]] The emotional consequences, the educational consequences will be huge. What are you offering them? [[Voice from the hall: I love children.]] What about the software base? You're suggesting that they repeat the same class. [[500 PLN per child we propose.]] You don't give them a chance to learn in preschool education, you take away their seats in these institutions. How many children will run out of places in kindergartens all over Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How will our children compete with their peers from other countries? To conclude, I'm gonna ask you one last question. Or is it the kind of educational model that parents want for their children? Why should a probation officer, Law and Justice, not a parent? [[Not the Civic Platform.]] I'd like a written reply. [[Applause]] [[They told her to read it, she read it.]] [[You said it right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u339	Thank you very much. I invite Catherine Osos, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill assumes that the formation of the school network by local government units will depend on the will of the school curator, i.e. the need for a positive opinion. We are well aware that it is becoming increasingly difficult for local governments to subsidize schools, and therefore I have a question: Will there be compensation for the school authority if the probation officer's negative opinion concerns a school whose running costs are higher than the educational part of the general subsidy charged to the student of this school, or are there plans for future changes in the distribution of subsidies? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u341	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the exposé, the Prime Minister and later statements we heard a great deal about cooperation, cooperation, the need to respect partners. In that case, as a Member, as one who has grown out of self-government, has gone 25 years with this self-government, the actions provided for in this law, which in the direction of self-government only cede duties, costs, the role of the listener or the role of the petitioner? So I have a question. If local governments are limited to the freedom to form a school network, who will bear the financial burden? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it gonna turn out again that the others promised and the government will pay? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Taxpayers, citizens.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] Second question: Will the Minister with the help of the curators decide where the school will be set up or where the school will cease to function? After all, the parole officer has had other tasks so far. Thank you so much, and I'm sorry for the time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u343	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The act will be implemented by the local government, so the voice of the local government is very important. Meanwhile, we learn that the opinion of the Polish Municipal Association, the Polish County Association is negative. The opinions of many organizations, here was one example, have not been taken into account. Who, then, are the organizations that appreciate these changes? Save the little ones, isn't it? Does the "Save the Little" organization accept the second year's freshmen? Does he appreciate the fact that five-year-old children from small towns, from villages that had a preschool obligation, will be locked up at home at the moment? And finally, the question. I would very much ask for an answer in writing, to give you a calendar. Since you are planning to pass this bill, you also have a calendar when the programming basis is prepared, ready for consultation, for evaluation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When will there be textbooks, because they have to change too? [[They're here.]] I would ask the Ministry to prepare such an answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u345	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Borowiak, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u346	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the irrefutable impression that the Members of the Civic Platform have not been thoroughly acquainted with the draft law on amending the Act on the Education System, which... [[We've met.]] ...as we all know very well in this Chamber, it is an answer to the enormous social demand, including the need to restore parents' right to decide to start school by their children. We're not saying those kids... [[The social demand for the exchange of curators is very high.]] ...they must start their education at the age of 7. We only give this opportunity to parents, we restore the right to decide in this regard. [[Applause]] However, and perhaps still, with regard to the bill submitted, different nominees from the Civic Platform issue opinions which appear to be opinions written for the party demand. One such opinion states that the changes made by the Act concerning six-year-olds will result in a low number of classes, and this would consequently contribute to a lower standard of organisation of science. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question for the applicant: Do the changes envisaged pose such a threat and do you share this view? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u347	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u348	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister of the Exposé announced that it would be the parents who would decide at what age children would start education. [[Of course I do.]] [[Yes.]] Please indicate to me where, apart from this one transition period, the parents of one year will decide this. You're just raising the start of the school year to seven years. [[Absolutely, never.]] Are you aware that six-year-olds, as a result of research, are already operating about 4,000. The words that they have a need to compete, that they can ride a bike, skiing or rollerblading, have the skills that children who were 7 or 8 years old once had? By condemning your children to the first class, you're hurting them. Such a request from me as a messenger and uncle of children aged 6 and 8 years: do not carry out your experiments on children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Nobody does experiments.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u349	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Like the Minister, I have children too, I have three sons, you have two daughters. [[Sir, do you have children?]] [[No.]] I don't understand the art at all. 7, which you are making in your amendments. [[Well, do yourself a favor.]] I don't understand why parents will be able to decide that a child, for example. It didn't go to the first grade until March 31st. [[I think I've spent more time with children aged six and eight than some parents have with their children.]] [[Well done, sir.]] [[Get the kids.]] Explain to me why, on the basis of which studies, on the basis of which opinions you have written such a point in these amendments at all. The second thing I would like to ask you is: Why do you, in the field of education reform, ignore cultural policy in general and introduce cultural knowledge, cultural activities into school? [[Game in the O.R.]] I know, but why doesn't it ever happen? The last thing I would like to say to Mr Zbigniew Dolata is: unfortunately, you are not talking to us, because if you were talking to us, this project, which we are now consulting, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It would not be a parliamentary project, but it should be a government project that provides consultation and social participation, which you simply do not want because you are afraid of it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That is not what Mrs Lubnauer said.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Halicki... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much and I apologize to Mr Potatoak. We'll get back to the proper order in a minute. In her exposé, Prime Minister Szydło referred to the British educational system and I wanted to appeal to it because she was actually talking about a modern model of the investigation into society, which is based on new technologies, is also modern by using them. Of course, it's about learning computer science, learning coding. Let me just remind you that in the UK, this educational model is based on compulsory schooling for children aged 5 years. If this is the right direction, then why are you taking a step backwards in relation to what Prime Minister Szydło said? Because it's a step back, not a step forward. In general, I would like to thank you for this project, because it is a parliamentary project, and therefore once again you prove that the government is simply redundant. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[What's the government doing?]] Since this is not a government reform and you are using the message here, I have a question for the Prime Minister, to the Minister: How do you treat this vote of distrust, a kind of vote of distrust directed by the Law and Justice Club in your own direction, that is to say to the government? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Ziamniak, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u354	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When introduced it was so called. Six-year-olds law, it was you who paid attention to not preparing the infrastructure of part of the schools for the adoption of six-year-olds. I have a question: On what basis did you think so, from what data and research have been drawn such conclusions? [[Talking to people.]] [[From observation, sir.]] In my municipality, Kościan commune, the local government prepared for this and the school facilities are prepared. On the other hand, the government is concerned about what it will do to teachers who will have to give up their seats, will not have a job and whether the subsidy will compensate them for the losses they will suffer. After the exposé I asked a question, actually it was an invitation, Minister or Prime Minister both in the middle of high school and in the case of six-year-olds. I invite you to the commune of Kościan to find out that it is not all bad, because it has always been said that it is after talking to Poles that we are carrying out an electoral program. But it's really not that bad everywhere. In the commune of Kościan it is really good, it is organized. The government's prepared, he did it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I invite you to visit this commune. Besides, my 6-year-old grandson went to school even though my daughter wouldn't send him, and now she's changed her mind. He's really fine, and he's happy to go to school. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[And she'll have the right to do that.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u355	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Mieczysław Baszka, the PSL Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Issues related to the education system are very important from the state's point of view. Why didn't you agree to a public hearing where numerous social organisations could comment on this project? This project concerns our children and grandchildren, which is why a broad public consultation is needed, while in express mode you are doing the first, now second reading, without letting anyone speak. Are the applicants aware of the impact on the child's psyche of repeating the first class? Do you know the opinions of psychologists and educators? Will the local governments, the poor ones, if they cancel schools, look at their party affiliations and put them into even greater poverty and even greater budget deficits, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So they don't have enough money to make their own contributions, so they don't have money to invest? Look at the fact that you can't go in that direction... it's better to work on a consensus even better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u357	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Labnauer from the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u358	Lubnauer - it's read, how you spell, exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u359	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u360	Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask a question as if it were not related to my previous speech, but also related to this reform. I wanted to ask you about the free textbook program. As we know, it cost several hundred million zlotys from the state budget, and you can judge these textbooks differently... [[It's bad.]] ...though there's a report from the NIK today, it just came in today, which puts a pretty high grade on these textbooks. Teachers appreciate the way they work with them. In fact, outside the first class, where there are big notes to the math part, the textbooks are positively evaluated. It is not yet known what the Third Class textbook looks like, but it will also arise because it has to, because we will have third-graders from September 1st in school. It's a few hundred million zlotys. I wanted to ask, what about this program? Because I understand that this change involves changing the programs and changing the school textbooks. These textbooks aren't here yet. In the coming year, students will simply work on the basis of these textbooks, which are, but what in the coming years? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much is this gonna cost us?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u361	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Adam Korol, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u362	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If parents submit an application to the school principal for a child to continue his primary education in the school year 2016/2017, the child will not be subject to the annual classification and thus the promotion to the school year II. My question: How will the child feel about his peers who will go to class II? Will the child have to repeat the same material? And what about its development, of which the Prime Minister spoke so much about in her exposé? [[Well, it's better that way.]] I'm sure it is. Are the opinions of children's educators and psychologists about the consequences of such actions known? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[But it does exist here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u363	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Rafał Weber, the Law and Justice Club. There's no envoy. I invite Elizabeth Gapińska, the Civic Platform. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u364	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! May I have your attention, Minister? Minister... [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: Note.]] Don't do another revolution at school. The school's sick of the revolution. [[That's what you guys did.]] If the school is to grow, then it is enough to evolve evolutionaryly, it really is enough. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: This is counter-revolution. This is counter-revolution.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what you're doing is nothing to do with your 2007 show. And just the idea of leaving a kid in first grade for a second year, that's pretty amazing. [[Where did you read that?]] I can't imagine my parents going along with this idea. [[Then read this bill.]] I'm a 25-year-old educator, and I never would have thought that anyone who had anything to do with education would have had that idea. Minister, get out of this. [[Applause]] It's just reprehensible. [[Voice from the room: Parents gave 2 million signatures, 2 million signatures.]] And the next thing... I'm sure my parents didn't sign off. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For leaving your kids second year in first grade. [[Voice from the hall: It's them you have to ask.]] [[But where did you find it?]] Minister, please reconsider. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Don't take us back to the 19th century. [[Applause]] [[The 19th century was beautiful.]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly, a wonderful time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u365	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u366	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think it's all the fuss today because the PiS in the previous hand was staring and not acting as fast as it is right now. Because if you did, we would have passed a bill on six-year-olds at the third meeting, and that would be a bill of your own. [[Applause]] [[That question was.]] Meanwhile, the fact that the Polish People's Party also had six-year-olds in its program, with the Platform we conducted this... there was an association that made some noise, and at the moment we have to flip all of this. [[You lost half the club.]] And now the question, honourable Member, will I not ask about future costs, because they will be huge for local governments: What costs have been incurred so far by local governments in adapting facilities to allow six-year-olds to go to schools? 'Cause those costs were pretty big, too. Does the government have that kind of simulation? Because there were these calculations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because there was an NIK study, I'm sure some records are being kept. I'd like an answer. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: From Elewarru we will take.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u367	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Anna April, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u368	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Will the adoption of this law eliminate the mess that was fueled in 2014 by your deputy minister from the Ministry of National Education, Mr Tadeusz Sławecki, who sent a letter to local governments so that the diagnosis of psychology and pedagogical counseling was carried out not earlier than in May, in the year in which the child starts school education. Such actions of the Vice Minister forced the parents to spend several hundred zlotys in private clinics to obtain such a diagnosis. I have a question: Will such outrageous practices be eliminated, and is this law doing so? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Because I've got a little more time, a few seconds... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Not anymore.]] ...I'd like to say it again. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, parents will have the right to send their children this year in which they believe that the child is mature to start education. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[But this is chaos.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u369	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u370	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I don't know about you, but I'm clearly surprised not to be on this side of the Elbanowskis' room. [[Voice from the hall: What are you talking about? I have kids in kindergarten, I know that.]] It's for those people who don't know in this term. It was, it is this family, it is this marriage, which openly contributes to the derailment of the Polish education system. I don't know if their mission is over, that they haven't found recognition and that they don't sit in the benches of the new government. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that you've gotten used to the High Chamber of the 8th term of office, the fact that you're presenting all the projects or most of them... They are written on the knee, they have a parliamentary formula, not a government formula. You must be ashamed of these projects. I don't know, it's your will. These projects are burdened with many legal disadvantages. The fact that you sentence five-year-old children, especially from the village, to a far-reaching education outlaw, we all know that, but for God's sake, how could you have come up with such a ridiculous idea to even propose the possibility of six-year-old children repeating the class. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For God's sake, are there any tests, opinions? [[They're here, ……]] You're ruining your childhood, you can really scare the kids, discourage further education. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u371	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u372	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Dear fellow Members, This bill, on which we are investigating, the construction of the Law and Justice in broad groups of teachers, parents are concerned about extensive discussions. And I'd like to step out of my grandfather's position. I don't know if you know the strength of your grandparents' positions. [[Vote from the room: Unique.]] Extremely concerned. I would like to say, the following question: How would the adaptation of a 6-year-old child be carried out, which the parent's decision would be to ask the Minister, and Grandpa goes back to a preschool group where he doesn't know any of his peers? He goes back six months later to go to the first class, to another new group. [[These gaps are in the bill now.]] Do you have an adaptation program that parents - and I, on behalf of a crowd of grandparents - would like to give an opinion? What's the rush? [[They can consult with their grandparents. To consult with my grandparents...]] [[Voice from the hall: If she's a friend of yours...]] [[I wish I was.]] [[Let's report an amendment like that.]] Yeah, well, I'm asking you kindly for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u373	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u374	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I wanted to ask you what kind of public consultation you're talking about, because many of the PiS MPs emphasized that there was some kind of public consultation. They did, but a few years ago. Get down on the ground and get back to reality. Ask three-year-olds today, parents of three-year-olds, four-year-olds, five-year-olds and six-year-olds who think about your anti-reform. [[Ninety thousand. responded by deferments.]] I'm actually very comfortable because I'm the mother of a three-year-old and five-year-old who attend public kindergarten and I have the opportunity to ask the Minister today. I take this form of debate today as a form of consultation, but this is a consultation. It's for parliamentarians only. [[You guys are getting away from reality completely.]] I would therefore like to ask the Minister in what form these consultations will be with those affected by the reform, because she, I would stress, first of all, concerns not even five-year-olds of today, but above all four-year-olds and three-year-olds who will continue in this new mode. And second of all, I wanted to ask you this. Since 2015, the Civic Platform has introduced compulsory English lessons for children [[♪ The bell ♪]] 5-year-olds in kindergartens and later for 3-year-olds and 4-year-olds. I wanted to ask myself: Will this reform be maintained, or will it be stopped, unfortunately, in the case of grants for home education? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Why speak languages? Why? Will Europe learn Polish?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes? Very good.]] [[And in the United States, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Lech Sprawka, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For a long time I wondered why such a frontal attack on this possibility could be repeated in exceptional situations at the request of parents of the first class. And I finally came to the conclusion that this is an expression, and for that I would like to thank the Platform Members sincerely, self-criticism - the self-criticism of the solutions that the Platform with PSL adopted, which made 91 000 this year. pupils, those who were six-year-olds, repeats the ward, the last preschool ward, carrying out the same preschool education program, not much of it, in groups mixed with five-year-olds. [[Applause]] So that I understand that you're very critical of your solution, and that's why you're asking us to cross out this opportunity for our parents. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And second note, such a mathematical problem, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The number of children in 2016 included in pre-school education and school duties is the same and even slightly smaller than in 2015, 2014, 2013. At the time it was great, there were places for kindergarteners, and for elementary school students, there was money. Now, despite the increase in the educational part of the general subsidy, there will be no. There's not enough money and the buildings are gone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u377	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u378	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about the legal consequence of the lack of places in kindergartens in the 2016/2017 school year. Is it that, as a result of this bad change that most of the parliament is making today, there will be virtually no place for three-year-olds next year in kindergartens? Yet access to kindergarten is the most valuable support for family policies. Polish six-year-olds are doing great in Polish schools, which had many years to prepare for their reception and did well with this task. [[Well, we don't know that because it's only been freshman year.]] This is demonstrated both by the results of the study of progress in teaching children who went to school at the age of 6 as well as by the opinions of their parents, because it is these opinions that parents who have dealt with 6-year-old children at school should be taken into account more than the studies carried out generally, mainly among those who have not had to deal with school in a long time. I have two daughters who went to school at the age of six, to a public elementary school in Tarnowskie Góry. [[Congratulations.]] They're doing great in it and they love school. [[That's great.]] They're not alone in this. It is similar with their classmates. [[We're very happy for you.]] The fact that 6 years is the optimal age to start school will not change the hysterical voices of environments that do not believe in Polish children, including those that scare the school [[♪ The bell ♪]] They used it to create a profitable business for themselves. By changing this solution, you are acting to the detriment of children, also by denying them the chance of universal access to kindergarten. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[We can't undo them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u379	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u380	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Education for self-governments is, literally speaking, femme fatale, mysterious, beautiful, calculating, bringing ruin to the self-governments in love with it. [[I don't think it's a metaphor.]] The bill extends the powers of the education curatorium at the expense of the performers of the laws. It's all right to say... [[It's a metaphor gone wrong.]] ...of impersonalization. How and when will the funds for the planned challenges reach the municipalities, since there are no longer enough subsidies to cover educational tasks? Local government units have a duty to cover the running costs of municipal kindergartens as well as those of other entities. Are the proposed solutions universal, i.e. applied to rich, children's communities and deserted, ageing villages, where the network and structure of educational establishments differ in both cases? When are the proposed print solutions 106 supposed to come into force de facto, since the 2016 budgets are being adopted? In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, I read that the proper division will depend on the decision of the parents. Budgets of units [[♪ The bell ♪]] Local authorities aren't made of rubber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u381	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, Club Law and Justice. [[We can do this. We can do this, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask, is it appropriate to provide children with younger places in kindergartens... [[Bravo, Ania.]] ...by pushing older children into schools... [[You'll be surprised.]] ... regardless of their... [[I haven't been surprised in two months.]] ...preparation, or should we look for other ways to give children a younger chance to take preschool education? And as a self-government officer - two terms I was in a sejm - I can say that this last term was mainly the liquidation of schools... [[That's right, bravo.]] [[Applause]] ...so there's something wrong with it. Thank you. [[Mostly in the days of the PiS.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u383	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the proposed legislation does not contain solutions for children born in the first half of 2008. They are in a similar situation as the 2009 Yearbook, but this identical solution introduces some unequal treatment in the absence of the possibility of meeting the educational requirements. Among other things, the Foundation points out this to the Ombudsman's Parents' Rights Foundation. I therefore ask the question: Will additional solutions be introduced for these children from the first half of 2008, e.g. at the request of parents to continue schooling in the classroom II? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u385	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask Mrs Aldona Młyńczak, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The future of our country depends on how we prepare our children and young people for the civilization challenges of the 21st century. And how they will cope in the future in a few or a dozen years, primarily depends on education, depends on the exploitation of their potential and on giving our children a chance to succeed. Meanwhile, the changes proposed by the current government, consisting in abolishing the school obligation for six-year-olds and eliminating secondary schools, have a negative opinion of the Polish Teachers' Association, the Polish Districts' Union, raise legitimate controversy in local government communities, educational workers and parents, as has often been mentioned here. Change reduces opportunities, above all, reduces our children's chances of educational and professional success in the modern world and takes into account the will of only some parents. Do you not think that the arguments of parents supporting the education of six-year-olds should also be taken into account? The Institute of Educational Research has made such studies available [[♪ The bell ♪]] with the level of parental satisfaction and this is a high contentment, over 90%, 92%. I'm going to go back to one thing, the case that's been raised here, which is the most scandalous, unacceptable idea of leaving six-year-olds in the same 1st grade or turning them back to kindergarten. And that is not true, what you said here, that this solution was also earlier in our platformed laws. [[There is, and there's an analogy.]] Now, on the other hand, it is about ensuring a certain gap, which is probably about giving the teachers work, so that these classes do not become empty. So it's a government recommendation that children repeat the same class. This kind of action is just a trauma for life...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u387	Member, please, it's time to go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u388	...is a child's development disorder, which, unfortunately, can later with such a traumatic problem throughout life function as a person who failed a certain exam.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u389	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u390	So that I ask you to reconsider and examine whether this reform should be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u391	Thank you very much. Watch your time, Member. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! If it is appropriate to leave it up to parents to decide whether or not to send their child as six - whether as a seven-year-old to school, the problem of leaving everything on the part of the local government remains open, mainly the task of calculating the number of pupils starting school in a given year. In particular, the problem concerns small centres, rural centres where only five-year-olds are present in kindergartens, i.e. future six-year-olds, and there may be a problem called. an empty yearbook in which there will be no pupils starting their education next year. I wanted to ask if the government has a solution to the situation of such an empty yearbook for those teachers who will remain unemployed for like three years or leave it... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the hall: There is no empty yearbook.]] The next year will be an empty yearbook. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: We have a solution.]] [[No, because they're gonna leave six-year-olds behind for the next year.]] So, I get it, it's gonna stay on the side of self-government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u393	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Aleksandr Anczynski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u394	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, I have two comments, so very kind, to Minister Kluzik-Rostkowska. Please note that you are no longer Minister, and the Minister is Anna Zalewska. Second note... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Buddy, I'd like to ask you to stay calm. [[Kaczyński is not the Prime Minister.]] Second note. For a long time, the public has often received unsubstantiated comments from the opposition, unfortunately with the right adjectives, so that they can be found. If you don't want to help, don't interfere with the good change. I have been a district councillor for the last nine years, and I have seen the growing role of the lead body as opposed to the supervisory authority. Only the blind man didn't see it. I'm happy to restore the proper role of education curator. I've been principal of the school for almost 20 years, and I have something to say here. Self-governments are a transfer of funds to schools and should be subject to control. The opposition defends local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does he see future municipal elections? I know there's a lack of funding from subsidies, that there's no resources. On behalf of local governments and not only do I ask the question: Minister, will education subsidies increase since September 1st? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u395	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Aleksandr Anczynski, the Law and Justice Club. [[I've already been, thank you very much.]] I'm sorry, Zbigniew Dolata, the Law and Justice Club. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Listening to this debate, it is difficult not to get the impression that the questions of the Platform Members in particular, but also of the PSL, and of the Modern ones, show that simply this project They haven't read the amendment, because since there's still a charge here that six-year-olds won't be able to attend the first grade, it's a clear proof. They'll be able to attend, and you should know that if you understand how to read the bill. The second point concerns strengthening the role of guardian. I wanted to ask the Minister what today, in the current state of law, a parent or a teacher can do in such a situation that the local government in some municipality decided to liquidate a school, a school attended by more than 100 students, a school that has very good results, and local government officials, because of their savings, because they want to build a piece of pavement somewhere, want to liquidate this school. To whom today such a teacher may apply [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or a school teacher where the local government decided to take over this school? It's all about taking away the protection that comes from the Teacher's Charter. What can a Member, Minister, do today to prevent such situations? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u397	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u398	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! It's a public consultation. It's a conversation with people. [[Yeah, at the election rally.]] ...it's not just sending letters to officials, and it's elected officials who have a lot of work and they can't or have no time to express their opinion. [[It's also a contact with the voter.]] We, Members of the Law and Justice, are talking to people, hence people have told us what to do, and we are introducing this law. I see it would be advisable, Minister, to answer a few questions. Perhaps he will explain what we want to change this bill. Does the changes introduced by this law increase the role of guardian and thus improve the quality of education? Do the changes that are being made restore democracy in schools? Do they increase the role of parents? Are they raising the teacher's profile? Do they ultimately prevent successful schools from being eliminated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u399	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I, like several dozen other Members speaking about the anti-educational reform of the PiS, wonder what genius in your surroundings, if it was your personal genius, had the idea of leaving this year's six-year-olds in the same class for the second year. If a few dozen Members are concerned about this... [[That has already been done, Member.]] ...that means there's a problem, Minister, there is. I suggest we consult with somebody who may not be with the voters, but someone who has even a slight idea of developmental psychology. Ask such a man what it means for the child's cognitive process to stop this process and leave him in the same place for the second year. Mr Dobry does not understand what is happening at school at the moment, because there is no such situation as [[♪ The bell ♪]] The baby kept saying the same thing. A five-year-old has a different programming basis, another six-year-old, another seven-year-old. You want to keep a few hundred six-year-olds in the process of development, and you can't let that happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u401	Thank you very much. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, Club Law and Justice... sorry, Civic Platform. [[Not yet or not at all, give it to God.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[We didn't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u402	Thank you very much for your pleasant company from PiS. I'm not going to PiS. [[We're leaving Krystyna with us.]] I was also hoping for more reason with Minister Zalewska, because she is a strong woman, she has proven many times. But she's fallen here. [[Voice from the room: We'll see.]] [[He's fine.]] I don't know what you've done or what you've done to the Minister because you're not talking about one thing. Six-year-olds or seven-year-olds - you're not talking about them. You're talking about politics, what politics you're doing with their parents. And most important are children and care for them. [[Politics is a prudent concern for the common good.]] For me, Mr. and Mrs. Elbanowski as two people, a husband and wife and a growing family, are not an element that can be taken seriously for consultation. They're not that... [[Voice from the room: Element...]] Each element in the consultation whether each entity in the consultation. [[Voice from the room: Yeah.]] Excuse me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And now one more thing for the Minister. I'd like to ask. It is estimated that this amendment of the Act will result in a lack of subsidies of PLN 1.5 billion for the local government. After an amount of tax-free - no subsidies of 8 billion, you add 1.5 billion, and even recently you said that local governments are being given responsibilities and that there is no money going on. Tell me where the schools are gonna be empty, how much money you're gonna put in 'cause there's no that kind of money in the 2016 budget. [[Applause]] [[Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska: No.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u403	Thank you very much, Member. Sorry about the slip. I invite Mrs Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club. [[Or maybe it's a good thing I said "element."]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u404	Yeah, it's an honor to be at the Law and Justice Club. [[Applause]] [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: And for us, we are on the Platform.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! To begin with, I would like to refer to Mr Halicki's speech, who with such sarcasm said that this is a parliamentary act. So I will remind him that in 2007 and 2011 4701 prints which entered the Marshal's staff, in 4687 the applicants were a group of Members. [[Applause]] What does that mean? That only 14 projects were government. [[That's not true.]] [[What are those dates?]] A similar situation in 2011 and 2015. 4005 projects 3961 were submitted by the parliamentary group and 144 were government. Look in the archives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[You've been putting together some projects every now and then.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this discussion, which is, as Mrs Civic Platform has just described, is politics, not talking about children. [[Checkmate.]] I want to tell you that I am just the person who went to school at the age of 6. [[Voice from the room: It was your designs that were.]] Such a provision in our country was in force and we are returning to that provision. [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Return to the Polish People's Republic at all.]] Parents have the right to decide at what age their children go to school. [[Voice from the room: Where's the conspiracy with the parents?]] We refer to research, to analysis. The best analyses are carried out by parents in their home, and I think they have the right to decide. [[Applause]] [[That's right, bravo.]] Minister, is what I said and said in my speech just the purpose of the bill and you in your policy? [[It's true.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, time.]] Thank you very much. [[Bravo, Mary!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u405	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of people who've been voicemailed. Ms Anna Zalewska, Minister of National Education, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that the Civic Platform does not understand this bill has been said in Mrs Leszczyna's last statement: We will not ask voters. Find some specialists who can tell us what the situation is going to be like. [[I didn't say we wouldn't, just don't ask.]] But that the most liberal act doesn't understand Modern, I'm amazed. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we have a project where we give citizens freedom. No one in this bill forbids anyone from doing anything. This is where freedom and opportunities are created, little is expected, and there is a desire to support parents, children, teachers and bodies in order to reverse this process as soon as possible, because what you have done has turned out to be a disaster. [[For who?]] In every speech, including the Civic Platform and the PSL, you have made an excellent diagnosis of what has happened throughout your reign. Everywhere, it sounded like the lead organs couldn't handle it. We want to support these leading bodies. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] We invite the bodies leading to a debate that will start in January. We invite you to this project. Why is this project a parliamentary project? You have lost contact with your own club because at the president of the Civic Platform Education Committee, I told the chairman of the Education Committee why this is a parliamentary project: so that you can get to the basics of the program so that the lead authority will know at which point, how to count, so that the school head knows how to plan the school rhythm. [[Exactly.]] And no, like today: in the living room we have 200 people, in card hours teachers take care of children, and in the level we have, for example, 17 classes. [[And who are they supposed to do?]] I congratulate you on such solutions. That's not enough. You're quoting research. Here you go. You're just quoting the parts you want. The 2014 study is, of course, a study on parents who, of their own free will, sent their children to places where they considered appropriate, prepared, as 6-year-olds. We're still saying they have the right. Not much, we left the school age down because a six-year-old is gonna study where his parent wants him, where he's gonna feel good. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] At the same time in this diagnosis, in this study and among others. The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber makes it clear that, attention, 66% schools lack cafeteria equipment, 38% schools provided only sanitary conditions, 33% of branches I-III, ladies and gentlemen, has its own office at its disposal, its own class. And we are one of the three countries of the European Union where change exists. I congratulate you on 8 years of governance of the Civic Platform and PSL. [[Applause]] At the same time, you're asking about specialists. Well, if you don't trust your parents, your constituents... Too bad they're picking you. [[Applause]] [[And you listen carefully and read it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what specialists have decided that 21% The kids stayed and waited for their parents to be free? 21% It's 91,000. students, six-year-olds went to the psych-pedagogical clinic for the right opinion. [[Well, that's good.]] Let's get the psychologists out of school, the educators out of school. Why? They are to be specialists of the Civic Platform and PSL. [[Applause]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about speeches here, among others. Polish Academy of Sciences. Indeed, I read every letter with concern, answer this letter and encourage the debate about the education system that will take place. And, of course, the Member did not add, perhaps you do not know - it seems that this was on my website - that a few people who were signed there came to me and told me that they did not want to be signed there and protested against someone using their signatures. But of course I'm ready to discuss it. Space for Education - I also studied very critical comments not only in relation to the project, but above all in relation to the education system. And I also invited her to the debate, it will take place in the next six months, in the first half of 2016. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about a lack of public consultation. I will not mention that this consultation has been going on for several years and you have completely ignored it. Members of the United Rights, with a citizens' project at their disposal, have done something that you cannot do, that is, at meetings in their parliamentary offices - now, in recent weeks - they have talked about this project. On their websites they placed information, collected information, were in schools, in kindergartens, talked to teachers and directors, and at the same time over the last month and a half everyone who was in the office of the Minister of Education, whether it was a representative of a trade union or a leading body, school directors, teachers - everyone knew that the process of proceding this project would be in this manner and that it was an exceptional mode. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there are voices of concern about the leading bodies. But it was the state that brought local governments to the brink of bankruptcy. At the moment, local governments are in debt to almost PLN 72 billion and say that they do not have the money to reach for new European funds. [[That's not true.]] At the same time, they say they won't pay for school, but they'll build a sports hall and a swimming pool to which they'll basically add twice as much as to school. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] I would like to remind you that the care of the child, the parent, the teacher, the school runs in Poland - and this is what the constitution says - bipolarly. The host body shall meet with you. We are talking about education policy, as we are talking about health policy and energy policy, for which you are responsible. As the state collects taxes on its citizens and the government collects taxes on its citizens, we have to make a deal. And I say, we'll also talk to the attending bodies. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the budgets in 2016 are safe, we've secured money for the local government. [[We secured it.]] And about 2017 please do not discuss with me, because you have no idea how the weight will be determined. [[Applause]] Together with the lead authority, we will determine how to support the changing education system, how to support the leading authorities, to share not only their responsibilities but also their money. [[You reform and you don't know how?]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there have been a number of issues here about the dismissal of teachers. This is obviously not true, because the number of children will not change, the parents will decide whether they will be in classes I-III, will they be in class I, will they be in class I, and every teacher who teaches in classes I-III is prepared and finishes the same studies as the one who teaches in kindergarten. It's time to stop talking about the kindergarten girls out there. There are kindergarten teachers... [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] ...prepared to deal with this education of a child who is in his system of values, the most important emotion and decides his constant attitude to education, to duty, but also - attention - to responsibility for himself, for his future wife, for his children, for his neighbor and for his family. That's the kind of value that we have in school, and that's the kind of school we want to create. Ladies and gentlemen, you care about the combined classes, the small number of children in the classrooms. I remind you, at the moment, more than 1,100 schools have predicted such a formula because this is the financial situation. At the same time, in every second speech it sounded - it sounds particularly curiosious in the lips of the Civic Platform, which knows or possibly did not prepare for these speeches, because I saw that you were handing out cards... Perhaps sometimes you still have to ask. [[Applause]] [[Don't be so mean.]] Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, you're worried about three-year-olds. Already, pre-schooling at the level of three-year-olds is 84%. Attention, in the bill... [[A little culture.]] ...which was written by the Civic Platform and the PSL, so far we're not changing anything. We are talking about the right to a kindergarten for a three-year-old since September 2017. We will already host the budget, we will host the subsidies, we will manage, as my colleague Jakub - Member said, I am just repeating his words. [[Bravo, Jacob.]] We will support him in this support of Law and Justice so that he can do it. [[Applause]] [[The government feeds itself.]] At the same time, there are many questions about side issues that are completely unrelated to today's speech or to today's bill. But one thing is very interesting. It sounded in the mouth of Mr Halicki, a man, a minister responsible for digitization, who tried to discuss the project or the idea of coding, i.e. teaching the basics of programming in Polish schools. And here's a beautiful diagnosis of your eight years. Here, Minister, we're saving another project - an e-handbook that was in the drawers, but it was 95%. Ready. It's like this 5%. It wasn't, it wouldn't be a project and 50 million would be gone, and in the next perspective we would lose 50 million too. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an e-handbook, but every second school teacher from this e-handbook will not benefit, because there is no computer in his room, and this room is not at his disposal, because there are two changes, there is no multimedia board. State e.g. They're thrilled to talk about the e-diary, and running an e-diary looks like the teacher checks the presence on the card, and then stands in the teacher's room in line for the computer to... [[Home.]] ...to fulfill the statutory task. Who's talking about imposing statutory obligations and not counting the public pennies, mostly with a penny of the leading bodies? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, [[Applause]] two more issues have been raised regarding home education because it sounds on the Internet. Indeed, there is a discussion on this subject - we have lowered the importance for home education. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, this has nothing... [[40%]] ...along with proper home education. Minister, I'd like to inform you that we have just notified the D.A.'s office on this matter, because that's how the system was sealed. In two weeks, you won't be able to fix everything you've ruined in eight years. The system was like this. [[Applause]] Sealed that you know how many we have in a 5,000-dollar municipality in Podlasie, children who benefit from home education? 900 children who don't stay in school. In addition, it is an association from Warsaw, which for as if increased subsidies registered in the same village. We will invite parents who have chosen such a path for their children because we are supporters of freedom, also of home education, but we will seal and secure the subsidy system so that it goes to those who actually benefit from this education. And I would ask you very much not to empathize here with certain wordings concerning the repetition of the class. This is a parenting project. They are the ones who are asking you if you have asked how a child feels, who in an unimaginable way simply suffers, does not want to go to school, is crying because he is not ready. That's the child you're so concerned about. And... [[Voice from the room: Parents have the right to withdraw such a child.]] ...at the same time, Mrs Augustine... [[It's the kind of kid that stays at home.]] ... She's allowed herself to have such private, sympathetic expressions, so I'll answer. I'm the mother of two grown daughters who got a great education... [[I was asking about six-year-olds.]] ...but... [[Yeah, I'm sure.]] ...they were the girls who were diagnosed as the ones who were ready to go to the first grade at the age of 6. [[And so do we.]] They didn't go. It was my decision, and I don't regret it. [[Applause]] [[Bravo, bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u407	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min. 05 hours 15 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft budget law for 2016 (print No 146). I ask the Minister of Finance of Mr Paweł Szalamach to present the justification for the draft budget law for 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u408	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In 3 days, the 2,000th year will begin, the year in which Poland... [[Two thousand sixteenth.]] ...two thousand sixteenth, sorry, year in which Poland will start implementing the most ambitious family support programme in its latest history and perhaps the most ambitious such programme today in Europe. The financial basis for this programme is the budget which is the subject of our deliberations today, and which I have the honour to present on behalf of the Council of Ministers. This budget not only guarantees the financing of this programme but is also safe from the point of view of the sustainability of public finances, as the deficit assumed in this document does not exceed 2,8% GDP. These were the basic two objectives that we set ourselves by building this document: to implement the flagship project of Law and Justice, and at the same time to carry out public finances with a dry leg for 2016. When we created the Law and Justice programme a few years ago, we made a diagnosis. This was at the turn of 2013 and 2014. This was the first time that this powerful, ambitious program of 500 PLN per child appeared. What were our reasons for this being in the public debate? First of all, the basic premise is that for us, for our political environment - but I assume that also for everyone present here in the plenary room - Polishness is a clear value, Polishness is a value that does not need to be justified, which does not have to be explained, which does not need to be argued, and Polishness collapses. For several years, Polishness has been collapsing: children have fallen to 1.2 or 1.3 children per woman in the early two thousand years, almost 2 million Polish citizens have left for exile. After a few years of positive natural growth for 2 years is again negative natural growth, again more Poles die than they are born. The second reason, the second condition, was, in our view, the inadequate response of democratic policies to this challenge, to this risk. Probably the most toxic position towards the family was taken by one of the politicians, notabene of the left, Mr Leszek Miller, who said several years ago that having a large number of children is a testimony of backwardness. [[How many have you got, Minister?]] But then, too, this response was inadequate in our view. Good changes, let's face it, started in 2005, in 2006. They were continued when we introduced benet and later tax relief in Drink. I admit that the previous team also continued to extend the scope of maternity leave or preschool care, while still, if we look at data for the OECD, Poland is below the average - data on family spending. According to recent data, on average for OECD countries, public expenditure according to a methodology that combines cash expenditure, i.e. benefits received by families directly, income tax relief and preschool expenditure, this average is 2,55% , and data for Poland is 1.7% GDP. And we see that in countries that devote a lot of money to supporting families - such countries are, for example, the UK, 4.2%, Ireland approx. 4, Sweden 3.6% - there is a correlation between state activity in this area and childhood. This is obviously a correlation, not a causal relationship, because these are social sciences, not physical sciences. A number of factors affect pronatalist attitudes, but there is this correlation. The childhood there is about 1.8 and 1.9. And the third is finally the economy. It is well known that, in addition to capital and technology resources, the population is the key driver of economic growth. It was also for us that we took into account when two years ago Law and Justice came up with this ambitious programme, which after winning the elections we had a chance to implement next year. We view this programme as an investment in the future of the country, not a cost, therefore the public finance effort that will be undertaken next year fully justifies it. What are the fundamental macroeconomic assumptions of the 2016 budget? Well, like the predecessors, we assume that the growth rate of gross domestic product will be 3.8%. , but in our view, as long as previously it was possible to doubt whether this forecast was slightly overestimated or not more optimistic, now the 500 plus programme is realising it, because it is not only an effort on the budget side, but also a very strong demand stimulus. Therefore, this position, the size that may still have been under discussion a few months ago, we believe, is very real. By the end of 2016, the global gross domestic product of Poland will reach almost PLN 1.9 trillion, and the level of 2 trillion, such a psychological one, will exceed after the next 2 years, in 2018. The labour market. The improvement in the economic situation, including the growth in the pace of investment, results in an improvement in the labour market. We therefore assume that unemployment will continue to fall and that by the end of 2016, the unemployment rate will be 9.7%. At the same time, the growth rate of average wages in the national economy will increase next year and will also cross the psychological boundary for the first time. On average, 4,000. gross zloty. Discussion between economists may be about another key parameter, which is inflation. Base inflation is low. The inflation that was established by us and also by our predecessors is 1.7%. We assume that such phenomena, such as the projected acceleration of inflation in neighbouring countries, will help to maintain this level, the impact of some kind of adverse climatic factors on agricultural raw material collections resulting in price increases but delayed over time. The fact is that inflation is very vulnerable to one of the basic factors of oil prices. If they continue to fall, as they have been in recent months - it is a factor that we do not have an impact on, Poland is part of the global economy - it is indeed the level of inflation - 1.7 - can be the subject, let's call it, a difference of opinion and discussion. In view of these projects and the outlook for inflation at a low level, we assumed that the base reference rate of the National Bank of Poland would be 1.5%. Just like it's been for a few months. We also assume that due to these factors, as well as the strong foundations of the Polish economy, the inflow of investment, predictable economic policy will be a certain appreciation of the Polish currency. We also appreciate that Poland has come out of the excessive deficit procedure, and the draft budget provides for... [[The platform did it.]] ...that this limit of 3% We're not gonna cross. As a result, we assume that at the end of 2016 the rate of gold vis-à-vis the euro will be 4 PLN and 3 gr, for the dollar - 3 PLN and 66 gr. How will the revenue of the state budget evolve and what will affect it? In addition to these macroeconomic indicators, which I mentioned, of course new sectoral taxes will influence this, which we also announced in our programme two years ago and which are consequently being introduced. A bank tax is expected to be passed today. It is a good and efficient tax that will allow you to finance part of the 500 plus programme. There will also be a tax on supermarkets, on retail sales in large-area shops, and we are also working on it. The first one, as we assume, will enter into force on 1 February and the second one on 1 March. The total revenue of the state budget in 2016 will be 313 788 million, which shows their dynamics compared to the end of 2015, an increase of 9.4%. In addition to tax revenues, which will amount to PLN 276 120 million and whose dynamics are 7.2% Of course, there will be non-tax revenues. These are revenues from dividends in the order of PLN 4.7 billion, revenues from the profit of the National Bank of Poland in the order of PLN 3.2 billion and revenues from the auction on broadband Internet in the amount of PLN 9.2 billion. These positions together will allow us to be on the safe side when it comes to the income side, and do not exceed this limit of 3%, which is threatened by repercussions, unnecessary discussions, some nervousness of buyers of Polish debt. What budget expenditure has been set up? The limit of expenditure laid down in the draft budget law was set at PLN 368 528 million in accordance with the revised stabilisation rule. The share of State budget expenditure in the domestic product will therefore be 19,5%. , which is also an increase in relation to what we will see in 2015, an increase of 0.8 percentage points. Our goal is both to rebuild the sphere of public revenue, tax revenue and to increase the state's expenditure where it makes sense. That is our priority, of course, for the family. In this revised stabilizing expenditure rule, the Sejm introduced changes on 10 December this year. They have been discussed in this House. One of these changes was to replace the inflation rate with what is forecast as the inflation target of the National Bank of Poland. We thought that this inflation target has been at an unchangeable level for many years, gives some predictability as regards the plaphone, the ceiling of expenditure, the independence of the Monetary Policy Council and the National Bank of Poland in this area is probably undisputed, and above all it is acting countercyclically, i.e. the current inflation rate, at the time when the deflation processes took place, caused that expenditure would be lower in the next year, which would evidently work, would be an incentive to collapse, shrink the economy. The revenue next year in general, as I pointed out, will amount to PLN 368 billion. In addition to the "500+' programme, many other programmes will be financed. Some of them, I admit, have been started by our predecessors, and many of them, considering it to be common sense, sensible, continue. Thus, in addition to the programme, the 500+ family for which it was budgeted will be provided in the budget of PLN 17 billion, of which PLN 1.7 billion in reserve under the responsibility of the Minister of the Family, and the remainder of this amount in the voivodeship budgets, will be financed such tax items as an increase in the remuneration for labour groups which have been covered by the so-called for many years. freezing wages, i.e. PLN 2.1 billion. For many years, wages in the budget, in a large part of the budget, have been frozen. We're taking the first step towards these working groups. One-off allowances for pensioners will be paid in spring next year. The amount of expenditure envisaged here is PLN 1.4 billion. According to a revised law which gives the Minister of National Defence a certain privilege, which the other ministers envy, as his budget is 2% GDP, national defence expenditure will increase and they will increase in real terms, because we believe that in recent years, although this plaphone was 1.95, this expenditure has not been implemented very often due to political pressure. It was simply when savings were sought that modernization programs were preferred not to be implemented, that they refrained from purchasing equipment. This was the practice of a number of years, in the Committee on Public Finance, we have raised this repeatedly. Free legal aid schemes will be financed, i.e. PLN 94 million. [[It's prepared by the Platform.]] Yes, my fellow Member. Thank you for the hint. [[And the profits, too.]] Except at the very beginning I said that a number of programs that were started earlier, we continue because we consider them common sense. Those that we don't think are common sense are repealed. The construction of the Museum of Polish History in Warsaw will be financed, probably in the area of the Warsaw Citadel, but this is no longer my decision. PLN 11.6 million has been allocated for this purpose. Restructuring tasks in the hard coal mining sector, i.e. PLN 1.3 billion, etc., will be co-financed. Therefore, the deficit of the state budget, which we propose in the draft budget law for 2016, amounts to PLN 54,7 billion, which is the amount, we allocate, by 4,8 billion higher than in the revised budget for 2015, but let us remember that we are always talking about the deficit limit. Often in the political debate, the media talks about establishing a deficit. No, they're really talking about the upper ceiling, the ceiling of the deficit, but there's no obligation to implement it. This amount allows us to conclude, comparing this deficit to the assumed gross domestic product at the end of 2016, that the deficit according to the EU methodology ESA 2010 will reach 2,8% in 2016. As a result, Poland will still not be included in the excessive deficit procedure, there will still be no unnecessary discussions and disputes about our credibility and we will still be able to refinance Polish debt reliably. What will be the total amount of public debt and refinancing? The project assumes that the public debt at nominal time in 2016 will increase by PLN 42 billion and will amount to PLN 924 billion at the end of the period. Therefore, a simple mathematical calculation shows that this key relationship that indicates the country's ability to handle its debt... [[That's what counts.]] ...or the global debt to gross domestic product will drop slightly. It's going to drop by 0.1 percentage points, but that's still a better result than what we've found in recent years -- it's going to drop to 49%. [[And the world crisis, have you noticed?]] [[Quiet! How are you guys acting?]] Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! [[Let us not exaggerate with this respectful.]] These are the basic assumptions of this budget, which I request from the High House, once again, that the 20,000th year... [[Two thousand sixteenth.]] ...two thousand sixteenth - thank you once again to the Member - will be a good year for Poland, it will be a year of good change. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Good change. It's a big change.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u409	Thank you, Mr... excuse me, Minister. I would like to inform you that the Sejm has determined in the discussion on this item the distribution of time between clubs, depending on their size, between 117 and 12 minutes, i.e. the mid-term debate. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Żyżyński, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u410	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! After such an excellent speech by the Minister of Finance... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[The voice from the room: Brilliant!]] ...it seems to me as a professor of economics to say a few words that will be addressed to my successors at the same time. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the most important law of quality... [[Taking over.]] ...public finances and consequently the quality of the state, the state is perceived by citizens by the quality of public finances. However, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable House, to you, that it is a myth widely distributed by the laymen, that the quality of public finances is defined by the state of zero or low deficit. It's just not true, it's a mistake due to the ignorance of the economy. The quality of finance is the ability to provide funds to funded institutions so that they can achieve their objectives efficiently. So healthy finances are when we provide enough funds to ensure that these institutions fulfil their tasks and objectives in relation to society. It is therefore worth recalling that the budget is a statement of the state's revenue and expenditure to finance its tasks of providing the public with various goods called public goods and social goods. The State collects tributes and pays its expenses to finance precisely these public goods. Their importance for the development and stability of society was understood by the ancient Romans who coined the term "pro publico bono" - for the common good, for the common good. They were the first creators of the republican idea, the service of the state for the common good. It is important to understand that it is important not to give in to the misconception that the state is creating a budget for itself in order to meet its needs. In a democratic state, the state is creating a budget to finance the institutions providing these public goods to the public. The budget is a statement of revenue and expenditure which cannot be interpreted in the same way as the budget of a company or household. The state is an important element of a complex economic structure that harmonises the economy. This country is neither an undertaking nor a household like it, although we can make a lot of analogys from both of them. However, the basic difference is that the objective of the State cannot simply be, because of its economic sense, to achieve surplus, which is the objective of the company, nor to accumulate savings, which is the objective of the household to safeguard its future. Therefore, a sound economic state creates a budget with a certain deficit, and here the Minister rightly said that there is a rational level which the European Union has defined. It is not good to exceed this level, but it is also not good to lower this deficit too much, because the deficit favours growth and profits of companies. There's simple mathematical evidence for that, just to reach into macroeconomics manuals. But for this surplus of savings, which the state budget should use precisely through a deficit, this surplus of savings in relation to the economy's ability to absorb these savings for financing real investment, for this surplus, I ask you countries, there is a fierce fight between the state and the financial sector, which in turn would like to make its profits from trading this capital and pumping speculative bubbles. This is a no-fault fight and its prostration is among others. cultivating demands such as the call for a balanced state budget. However, in order to finance its objectives, the rational State uses, firstly, mandatory irreversible contributions of citizens, called taxes, contributions, fees or public tributes, and, secondly, in a rational proportion, loans, by issuing securities called bonds. And this way of funding reduces the burden of compulsory fees. Tax bonds are Bonds in English, which means James Bond is James Bond. Not everyone knows it, but I think I've said it before. It should be recalled that in 2009 the Ecofin Council imposed an excessive deficit procedure on Poland, because we have exceeded what is considered reasonable. As a result, economic policy has been primarily focused on reducing fiscal imbalances in recent years, but at the same time the revenue side of the budget has not been taken care of. As a result of the fiscal consolidation carried out, the Ecofin Council removed the excessive deficit procedure from Poland on 19 June 2015, and that is good. But every budget of the year of the election is a compromise between the goals of the state wielding team and realizing its vision of the public good and the past, i.e. what the previous ruling team left behind. It is therefore necessary that this budget is very conservative. Let me remind you that the main problem is the erosion of the income side, as we talked about in the context of the revision of the budget for this year, the erosion of the income side. Namely, the tax system was broken by allowing harmful lobbying. As it was said, lobbyists of companies dealing with so-called. the optimization of the tax was even written in various amendments to the tax laws, in noisy and with a gigantic hypocrisy of the stated purpose - in the interest of the taxpayer. But let us remember that what is in the taxpayer's interest does not have to be in the interest of the state budget. However, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing is that, generally speaking, one must remember that what does not have to be in the interests of the state may be in the interest of the economy as a whole, where there is a completely different context of the objectives we achieve. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the most important thing is that this tax system needs to be repaired. As you know, it is estimated that the losses in taxes amount to tens of billion PLN, even 60 billion PLN. However, the 2015 revision of the budget estimates, I would remind you, that tax revenues are not being paid for more than PLN 12 billion, and in particular VAT on goods and services, i.e. VAT, at PLN 13.3 billion. On the other hand, in this budget, which the Minister was kind to present to us, tax revenues were estimated at PLN 276.1 billion, i.e. by PLN 18,5 billion more than expected implementation in 2015, but included in this revenue from banking tax - PLN 5,5 billion, and the tax on large-area shops - PLN 2 billion. At the same time, total revenue, due to the increase in non-tax revenues, will increase by PLN 27.1 billion compared to the expected implementation this year. This non-tax income is important, as you can see. Interestingly, VAT revenues are estimated at PLN 128,7 billion, which is only 7.4 billion higher than the actual implementation this year. This is the testimony of this conservatism and some caution, because you just can't do it any other way. at this stage of work on the budget. A low increase in excise tax revenue is foreseen in the budget, it will be by PLN 1.1 billion more than expected this year, a small increase in CIT revenue - by 0.4 billion, and a small but slightly larger, from PIT - by PLN 1.9 billion. The percentage of VAT revenue will increase by 6,1% , with excise duty - 1.8% , with CIT - 1.7% and with PIT - 4.1% The government assumes that the tax system will be repaired, but it is more prudent to estimate the increase in CIT and excise revenue, because repairing the income side is a difficult task. It's easy to mess things up, but it's very hard to fix. This requires solid action by the relevant authorities, especially the Ministry of Finance, but, as we know, not only the Ministry of Finance. It should be stressed that the recovery of the income side is essential for the implementation of the budget, for the improvement of the quality of the state and for the perception of the state by citizens. If we have income, we can make expenses. The level of expenditure is planned so that, at the same time, the very cautious estimate of revenue does not exceed the acceptable deficit level resulting from the requirements of the European Union. The deficit of PLN 54.71 billion will therefore amount to 2.9% GDP estimated at 1888.3 billion. As the Minister said, the deficit of the public finance sector as a whole will therefore be 2,8%, as is estimated here. GDP. GDP is, as you can see, carefully estimated. It will increase nominally - please, nominally, GDP alone - by 5.11% and really assuming inflation of 1,7% - about 3.35%. As for spending, it's the tailor of the countries as his matter gets hard, says the old saying, and this matter was delivered, unfortunately, by the leaving crew. What the previous government has prepared is therefore a powerful restriction. Therefore, a few words, ladies and gentlemen, about your expenses. What is particularly important is what the Minister was talking about, and I will stress here in his speech on behalf of our club that some very important social and economic goals have been set. First of all, the socially important programme of the 500+ family, the introduction of free medicines for those aged 75 years old - they simply deserve it. [[Not all of them.]] What's very important? An increase of more than PLN 2 billion in wages for workers groups, which have been covered in principle since 2010. freezing wages. It was a reprehensible thing, too. For five years, no salary has been raised in the name of the idea of fighting the deficit, and this causes these structural arrears that we will now have to make up for for a few years, because it cannot be done quickly... [[The voice from the courtroom: That's what you promised.]] ...unless it will be a success program to rebuild the tax system. Subsequently, one-off allowances for certain pensioners and beneficiaries of benefits, support for restructuring tasks in the mining structure, increase of national defence expenditure - this will not be 2% for the time being. GDP, rather in the future - measures to increase family and other expenditure, which I will no longer mention. Ladies and gentlemen! Two more words about one important thing, because as you know, I'm from the science realm, and I can't ignore this case. Well, as I said, the tailor of the countries as his matter gets hard. There's not much left of what the previous government... Unfortunately, we have been in the field of science for years. And here, unfortunately, we have some arrears that will be gradually made up by the government, because that is what we promised to the scientific community. [[All because of us...]] Therefore, I would like to remind you that in relation to the domestic product, gross expenditure on education will increase from 0.29% to 0.3%, to higher education from 0.8% up to 0.82% , so very little. There's a lot to do here. I'll give you an example of a space agency. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a very unappreciated element. We want the economy to be innovative. An element of innovation in the economy is a certain ambition, an ambition to, for example, In space research, I don't want to use bad words, but some people say, "Poor country." This can't be right. Well, I remind you that for the space agency - such Polish NASA - PLN 9.5 million. France spends 2.5 billion PLN, employs 2500 people, India, a third-world country once, even recently, has a budget of 820 million, Belgium - 230 million dollars, UK - 414 million. In the European Union, 6.2% public expenditure on civil research and development goes to space research. 6.2%. In the OECD, 8,5%. And in Poland? In Poland, ladies and gentlemen, 0.17%. It's a testimony to how we kind of agreed to this kind of provincialism. And this government will try to improve this situation, but if there's a chance, we're just gonna walk away from that conservatism, because it's gonna make it possible for us to repair the budget revenue system, especially taxes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u411	There you go. Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Platform Club, will speak at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to thank you, Madam President, because this is a rare case in this parliamentary term, that we can deal with the government law, not the parliamentary law. I know it's a little random, because art. 221 of the Constitution states that the legislative initiative in the field of the budget law is exclusive to the Council of Ministers, and you could not do it as a parliamentary initiative, but it is even worth thanking for it, because so far we are only working on parliamentary laws. We have, in general, a day or two to take care of this. Prime Minister! You have received a good budget after the Platform government, you have received a economy that is developing at a good pace, and you have ruined the budget, and you have especially spoiled it on the income side, which the professor had already told you about. Extremely optimistic, unrealisticly you have adopted over-earnings of the state budget, virtually impossible to implement. And there wouldn't be anything wrong with that if it wasn't for those revenues that you planned the budget expenditures that these revenues are supposed to cover. This is a dangerous budget not for 2016. This is a dangerous budget for the coming years, because it will give the basis for building budgets for 2017, 2018 and it will be difficult for you to tighten the budget of 2017, even though you have broken the expenditure rule introduced by the Platform. This is a very risky budget. But since you promised us, the Poles, the opening balance sheet or the closure balance sheet, I will use a few quotes from the draft budget and the justification which Prime Minister Szydło, the Prime Minister and the Government, submitted to the Sejm to give this opening balance for you. The first quote: The Polish economy is located on the path of rapid growth, starting from the second quarter of 2013, growing at a slightly lower rate than the long-term average during this period. That's a quote. And it is also worth noting that the Polish economy has shown the highest growth rate in the last seven or actually eight years. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Where is it?]] [[In the explanatory memorandum.]] If we adopt a comparable cumulative growth rate, we achieved more than 24% growth in 2008 and Poland was the leader in the European Union. This is the state of the economy that you have received and do so in the draft budget. Second quote: Export remains in a clear growth trend, which is supported by the relatively high competitiveness of Polish companies and by improving the dynamics of Polish main export markets. This is reflected in the higher dynamics of industrial production and investment, in particular in the so-called category. purchases involving machinery and equipment and means of transport. The external imbalance of the Polish economy is currently at the lowest level since the mid-1990s, i.e. the Polish economy, you admit it, and it is also in the stage of good development. [[Applause]] There is no Poland in ruins today, today is a great development of Poland. Another quote: Improving the economic situation last year, including a clear acceleration of investment growth, translated into an improvement in the labour market situation. In the case of investments in the market sector, after a strong decline in 2009 and 2010 since 2011, a recovery of their share of GDP has been observed despite the relatively unfavourable situation in the external environment. The real growth rate of total investment is projected to be 8.6% in 2015 and 7% in 2016 In comparison, we can say that in 2008 and 2014, the increase in investment, this cumulative increase, amounted to almost 26% in Poland, and this is the first place in the European Union in those years. [[Applause]] Only four countries recorded a positive increase in investment compared to 2007. This is also the state of the economy that the Platform left to the Government of Law and Justice. Next quote: In 2014, average employment in the national economy increased, which allowed a relatively large decrease in the rate of unemployment recorded at the end of the year. Positive labour market trends are expected to continue and average employment in the national economy will increase by 0.9% in 2015 and 0.8% in 2016 [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's a quote. from your budget, submitted by your government. [[Voice from the hall: From yours.]] Improving the economic situation has also been reflected in the labour market. It is worth noting that between 2008 and 2014 the increase in the number of workers was one of the highest in the European Union. In this respect, they were ahead of them. We're just Germany and Britain. [[Applause]] Thanks to this growth Today's employment is record-breaking. Today, as never since 1989, more than 16 million people have worked in Poland. In 2007, when the Platform was taking over governments from you, we were the last place in the European Union in terms of unemployment, it was the highest in Europe - it is just to compare - today Poland is a country with low unemployment, unemployment constantly decreasing, with people who work for employment contracts, for various other contracts, but work and earn money. Private consumption is in the upward trend. It's also a quote from this budget. The increase in private consumption in this period considered, i.e. from 2008 to 2014, amounted to almost 22%, and this was also the best result among European countries. [[Applause]] This is what this Poland looks like in ruins, this is what the real numbers you admit to today look like. Two months ago, you didn't accept this statistics at all, and today you're calling for the same numbers by writing a draft budget. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Domestic demand plays an increasing role in GDP growth, which has become a major factor in economic growth in the fourth quarter of 2013. Economic growth in Poland is expected to reach 3.4% in 2015 to accelerate to 3.8% in 2016. The output gap is closing in relation to potential GDP and it will be negative. 0.4% in 2015 and minus 0,2% In 2016 versus minus 0,5% In 2014, the average gross remuneration in the national economy in those years, 2008, 2014, in real terms increased by 17% and the average pension by 26% in real terms. [[Applause]] These are the achievements of these 8 years of Platform and PSL governments, which you made two months ago. Ranking position - in several rankings - Poland for comparison with what you left in your opening balance sheet or our opening, and your closing. World Bank - Doing Business ranking: in 2007 we were in 75th place, today we are in 25th place. This is the result of the Civil Platform government. Index of Economic Liberty: in 2007 86th place, today 42nd place. This is the result of the Civil Platform government. The Corruption Perception Index, which you are so interested in: in 2007, 61st place, today 35th place, after 8 years of governance of the Platform. I Global Competitiveness Index - 51st place in 2007 and 43rd place in 2015. [[But to the point.]] This is the effect - to which the state also admits in its own draft budget - the government of the Civic Platform, this Poland in ruin, which, it turns out, has suddenly begun to develop. And what did you do with the good budget we left you? You broke it in a few places. The first element, which the Minister mentioned, is, of course, overshooted inflation. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Of course, 1.7% of inflation is not a viable indicator. And you know it, and we know it. You had a chance to make it better. You've revised this year's budget, you know that this year's inflation target or planned inflation, or actually deflation, minus 0.2%. It's not going to happen, it's probably going to be minus 0.8%. You haven't improved and the wrong indicators have been adopted for the next year, and inflation is totally disrupting the income side. The inflation that is planned to overwhelm you with VAT revenue, Professor, you know that very well, there will be no such high income, there will be no possibility of financing such high expenses, because this hole will rise to you, you will have to increase your deficit. The revenue from the new taxes you have assumed is also quite risky. These taxes are not yet in place, they are not passed, I know that you have the opportunity and you know how to do it with a struggle, pass the laws in one day, but these taxes have not yet been in the economy and it is difficult to predict whether such optimistic assumptions will be realized, i.e. 7.5 billion will actually affect the budget. This is the second element on the income side, which is extremely risky for the budget. The third element is income from NBP. They may show up, but it's been years since they didn't show up in the budget, and you have $3.2 billion in rigidly that the NBP will definitely pay you out of the dividend. We do not know what the financial result of the National Bank of Poland will be, because we will learn this at the end of the year, and we do not know what it will be intended for. Of course, there is also planned GDP growth of 3.8%. And he's possible indeed. Of course, the condition is one, as Prof. Żyżyński mentioned, that the external environment will allow us to develop peacefully as a world, that the crisis that is affecting countries such as China, India, Brazil or Turkey today will not flow into the global crisis, that there will be no third wave of crisis, because if it is, it will also be threatened. You broke the spending rule, which, of course, was because you changed the formula and accepted 2.5% inflation into the base. As the NBP's inflation target, and not as actual inflation, it gives you the opportunity to increase your spending by almost 17 billion. You used this rule to increase your expenses, knowing that on the income side you might have trouble implementing these revenues. This is an even greater risk and shows the financial markets that the state does not necessarily have to have stable finances because you have ruined something that guaranteed financial stability and the financial markets are financing our debt. What will be the cost of debt service in a moment, also on the cost side, I think you have miscalculated. Because today you can clearly see that the cost of handling debt will be significantly higher than what is planned today. [[That's how it's gonna be.]] Not because the Platform has planned badly, just because you have made such a mess in Poland within a month, that financial investors are afraid to invest here and will want higher interest on debt securities, you can see that. The professor mentioned that we had been removed from the excessive deficit procedure, but as you will note, the interest rate did not fall, the profitability of our bonds did not fall despite the removal of this procedure. We still have high interest rates and, nevertheless, the risk of entering the next excessive deficit procedure does not have to reduce them at all and may increase them. B, there's another risk, a huge part of public debt is debt to foreign investors, in foreign currency. I don't know why you believe that the gold will be strengthened, why you believe that there will be PLN 4.03 at the end of the year in zlotys. If it is as it is today, i.e. the weakening of the zloty will occur on a regular basis thanks to the actions you are taking in the political sphere, scaring all investors outside, it will turn out that the service of foreign debt will be much more expensive, not only because the interest rate on bonds will increase, but also because there will be further weakening of the zloty. The costs you have planned on the debt management side will be too low. These are actions that you take entirely in other spheres, but they work on the structure of the economy, they work on public finances. You hit financial institutions that generally buy Polish bonds. They're gonna want higher incomes because you guys are taxing them. We'll pay for the same thing ourselves, only this debt cost will be much, much higher. This is getting yourself into trouble for next year, for the next budget, because you have accepted as a sustainable one-off income. Those auction revenues we've proposed this year and reduce the deficit, they'd give you a pillow like this for the years to come. You treat this income properly as repeatable, and they won't be. At the same time, under these revenues you are forecasting expenditure, and this expenditure is rigid, because the 500+ family project is a rigid, big expenditure in the budget, it will be over 20 billion PLN of rigid annual expenditure. You have funding for this year, for 2016, there is no such funding for the next one. Cursing the reality that someone seals the tax system and this tax system will give us much greater influence. I wish you good luck with that, but it hasn't worked out so far. We remember the debate here and the amendments made to this budget when taxes were supposed to be sealed at 3.5 billion. You were yelling about it at the beginning of last year, actually at the beginning of this year. That amount of 3.5 billion didn't add up, it turned out to be fiction. And it's your assumption that we're gonna seal the tax system today and suddenly have more resources, it could be the same fiction. That's the risk for 2017. These are the main risks, and especially on the income side, which the State adopted, and thus spoiled the good budget of the Platform, which was a secure budget. I disagree with Professor Żyzyński that this is a conservative budget. He is not conservative; on the income side he is extremely optimistic and unrealistic, impossible to realize. We're also facing an increase in the hole and budget deficit. It's something that's gonna put a shadow on public finances in the years to come. That is why the Platform cannot support such a budget, Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u413	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Kukiz, Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u414	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Law and Justice had eight years to prepare this budget. And what did Law and Justice do? In fact, it copied the Platform's budget, made a few small... [[And it's broken.]] ...correction and increase budget deficits. [[Plagiarism?]] [[Bravo!]] The government wants to continue the debt of present and future generations of Poles. Today, every child is born with a debt of 82,000. zł. Meanwhile, you are presenting a budget with a record deficit of 55 billion in the III Polish Republic. How much more do you want to owe the next generation, our children, our grandchildren? We for a long time, the Kukiz15 movement, are talking about the need to adopt the principle of a balanced budget and ban on sovereign debt, as has been the case for a long time in Germany or since that year in the UK. You are predicting an increase in budget expenditure by more than PLN 30 billion, and my question is: Why do you even want to increase budget expenditure? The budget should be reduced. Why? So that money stays in the pockets of citizens who know exactly how to manage this money. [[Applause]] I'll ask you where your promises from the election campaign went, Prime Minister. The ones that dealt with tax cuts? Where's the VAT reduction? Where's the CIT reduction? Where is the reduction in the pension contribution and where finally the higher amount free of PIT? Why did you forget about Polish small entrepreneurs? ZUS contributions will increase again. Tell me if it's fair and fair to have a small businessman earning $2,000. monthly, paid 1100 PLN of ZUS-Danin. [[Applause]] We have read this budget, and it is obvious that there is extreme mismanagement and wastefulness. I am saying here that this is not the budget, Madam Prime Minister, that you spoke of in the election campaign. We talked about bureaucracy, we heard about bureaucracy, and from this budget of yours, the costs of bureaucracy are going to rise dramatically. A few examples. Why does the budget of the Social Security Office and the tax administration increase by PLN 500 million in total? Why is the budget of the National Judicial Council increasing from 15 million to 50 million? [[I.P.N.'s still on.]] Why does the National Election Office's budget rise from 50 million to 90 million in a year without elections? Why is the budget allocated to the National Radio and Television Council, which according to the draft media law is to be gradually extinguished, increasing from PLN 26 million to PLN 36 million? Why does the General Data Inspector's budget increase from 16 million to 20 million? And so on, and so on. Tell me, is this a cost-effective country? Why aren't you saying anything about the need to reduce these taboons of officials collecting such monstrous money? [[Applause]] Why didn't you say anything, not a word of it, about the payments of horror money to the presidents of the Treasury companies? [[We've narrowed it down, Paul.]] I'm telling you again. Leave the money in the pockets of the citizens. Reduce labour taxation, taxation of Poles' wages. Poles know best how to spend their own money, and certainly much better than you. Amen. [[Applause]] [[He was good, wasn't he?]] [[Morning, first time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u415	Please take the floor of Mr Richard Petru, the Modern Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u416	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! You owe Poland more than Jacek Rostowski did, and it seemed that no one could beat the champion. I just wanted to remind the High House that Poland went bankrupt in 1981 after Gierek indebted us irresponsiblely. That's what the media didn't talk about at the time, because the media was under regime. This is such an important memento, an important memento, so that by chance it does not lead to Poland being able to easily indebt itself. I would also like to remind you that Hungary, some of which want to take the example, did not just have a debt limit and that during the crisis they had increased their debt to more than 70% GDP and had to ask the monetary fund for help. Ladies and gentlemen! I see you don't have any money for your ideas. Let me remind you: Where is the law that President Andrzej Duda referred to, which was referred to by the Constitutional Tribunal, namely the higher tax-free amount? Prime Minister, where is the finance minister, is, I see: Where is this tax-free amount next year? Why aren't you bringing her in? We'll back her up. We'll back her up, just bring her in. You have time, Mr Cymanski. [[Not right away, without being smart.]] Mr Cymanski, you have time. I have a favor to ask you to bring it in. As I understand, after Paul Kukiz's speech, he is also behind the lower taxes, you may have a majority here in the High House for this proposal. You're blocking this offer on your own because you don't have the money. You just don't have the money for it. Let me remind you: you have been implementing the 500+ programme next year since the middle of the year. Why? Because you don't have the money. You don't have the money for all those promises. I said a month ago, you're gonna let us go with the bags. Now I'm afraid it won't be on the bags. It won't be on the bags. [[The voice from the room: He's funny.]] I have a serious concern that once you have voted hand in hand with the policies of the Civic Platform, taking over half the savings from open pension funds, this is the second time you will not have such a reserve. It has to start from 2015. Let me remind you that you've made an amendment. It would be good for Poles to explain why the amendment was for. Ladies and gentlemen, there was this amendment to move revenue, such a one-off income from the LTE mobile auction, for 2016, so that more money would be available to finance expenditure in 2016. These revenues are one-off, they will not be repeated twice in 2017. So you can say this, the whole strategy is this, I have this feeling, you might get me wrong, but it looks like you only have the program for one year. Speaking of increased P.C.P.U. spending, maybe there's something going on. [[Elections - 20 million.]] Because if spending grows twice in a non-electoral year, then perhaps something will happen in an election year, which we probably don't know about. We'll see. In any case, it is evident that you cannot afford a higher tax-free amount, which was mentioned both in the election campaign and in the judgment of the tribunal, and you cannot afford an annual 500+ programme either. You must finance it by transferring one-off revenues from 2015 to 2016. Therefore, I have this question: When will this tax-free amount be? Because so far, this good change you've been talking about is the pardon of one of the ministers, the mock-up of the tribunal, the law allowing the surveillance of Poles and the fourth thing, probably today, to take over public media personnel. And the question is, is that what this is supposed to be about? Ladies and gentlemen! During the period of economic growth, the budget should be balanced. A modern bill will be tabled which proposes a balanced budget in the economic cycle. Let me remind you that for the next year almost 3% deficit is proposed, public debt - 52% GDP, or 23,000. zł per citizen. With any economic slowdown you lose liquidity, we all as Poles lose liquidity. Let me remind you that there is a hidden debt of 183% GDP. One of the Members said the budget was conservative. I can say this: when you make a conservative budget, you make a conservative assumption. It is a good principle that macroeconomic indicators are not adopted on the basis of government forecasts - I address the Minister of Finance with such a suggestion - only take the median or the average of external centres, in Germany they are e.g. research institutes. So you take this median, and then the government can say, these were external projections, and we've statistically chosen the forecast that came out of the other projections. Let me remind you: GDP in your budget is expected to rise by 3.8 and Poland is median 3.5. Inflation is expected to increase - 1.7 - median is 1.0. What does that mean? If inflation is lower than what you're predicting by this almost 1 percentage point, then 2 billion from VAT will not be affected. Similarly in the case of the budget. If you have too optimistic indicators, less money will affect you in the course of the financial year. Of course, against the background of the expenses you promise, that is, you can say, a drop in the sea of needs, but that is such a suggestion for the future. I see you're doing exactly what Rostowski was doing here: he was overly optimistic about the budget and then needed to be updated. My three questions are: How will there be money for the 500 PLN program for the whole year? Second question: Why is the money for a higher amount of free money and when will it come in? I don't know if I should ask the Prime Minister or Minister Morawiecki. When are you going to introduce a higher tax-free amount? [[Fascinating.]] If there's a phase-out or a milling, I'm waiting for that date. Make a commitment here because I see that you are able to introduce laws in the morning and vote them out in the evening, just not the one about income tax. Amazing. That's too bad. [[Don't be ridiculous.]] Why money for a lower retirement age? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you don't have an idea for Poland and you can't count. We call for this budget to be rejected at first reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Banks will pay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u417	Please take the floor of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u418	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! How little is needed: several days have passed, the view from government benches is better, because higher, and you can see that Poland is developing, that there is economic growth, new jobs are created, unemployment is falling, we have the most jobs since 1989, the lowest unemployment for 7 years, wage increases. Everything's finally been spotted. And the Minister, very rightly, in presenting the budget, used the solutions developed by the previous coalition. It's a good thing they're kept in this budget. Especially good, because it was always the most important for the Polish People's Party: the finance of Polish families is the most important. Public finances are very important, but for us, for the Polish People's Party, the most important are the finances of Polish families. You're continuing our family policy. That's definitely the right direction. You maintain the program of gold for gold, PLN 1000, funding for kindergartens, construction of crèches, senior-WIGOR - program for the elderly. It was all booked in the budget prepared by us, by our government. The same applies to pensioners - 1,4 billion PLN. Although you have filed your own parliamentary bill, this is the money that we have already booked, knowing that due to very low inflation there will be a need to support pensioners and pensioners in the following year, because valorization will be very low. But can we take the numbers presented in this budget, all the numbers, seriously? Take, for example, a supermarket tax. In October you said it was an additional 3.5 billion, in November - 2.5 billion, maybe 3 billion, in December it was already 2 billion. Is that the final number? Or is it gonna be 1 billion zlotys on the last day of New Year's Eve? Similarly with the 500+ programme. I don't think you've been talking about this show for a dozen months. First it was for every child, now it is for every other child, although in many words you repeat that it is 500 PLN for each child. There's gotta be another kid for every other kid... [[Minister for Labour and Social Policy Elżbieta Rafalska: Not every other thing, Mr Rafalska.]] [[Voice from the room: What about the twins?]] It is to be 500 PLN, which for the first child will be subject to the fulfilment of the income criterion. And yesterday there was very good information from Minister Rafalska on websites that 500 zlotys will get foster families and that it will not be included in income. Very good direction. But today there is sad information from the Minister of Finance, from a letter that was received by Minister Rafalski, who the media publish that there may be a top limit, the upper limit of availability of 500 PLN. You're changing your flagship program for change. You're changing your flagship program into small change. [[Applause]] And you don't give a real chance to create that support. [[The voice from the room: Well, Mr. Buddy...]] You promised a lot, the Poles trusted you, believed in 500 PLN, believed in a tax-free amount, believed in a lower retirement age. So? [[Voice from the room: And it will be.]] And there's no money in the budget for a lower tax-free amount. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Elewarr will pay.]] Why don't you respect the President? He sends a bill to the Sejm and asks: introduce it from 1 January 2016. The President is loyal to you: he comes from the Vistula, signs the Constitutional Court Act as a matter of urgency, [[Applause]] He signs all the laws, and you don't respect the President by not adopting his tax-free law as of 1 January 2016. Why? What about retirement age? You rejected our proposal for 40 years, rational, much cheaper. You didn't want to debate it. First reading, boom, in the trash. As soon as you throw it away, throw it away, forget it. You have... I really do, but I believe in this password. We can handle it. We can do this. We can all do this. You've shown that you can handle the media, the tribunal, the civil service. Show that you can manage a tax-free amount from 1 January 2016 and not 2017, 2018 or 2019. Show that you can manage a change in the pension system but rationally - 40 years of work experience. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, about that credibility. What about better tax collection? Minister Kowalczyk not long ago said that it could be several, several billion zlotys. And this proposal presented today by the Minister of Finance is not much different in terms of tax collection from what Minister Szczurek presented not so long ago, even during our coalition. And the credibility of the words that fall from this speaker. At our request during the exposé, the Prime Minister accepted the proposal for a debate on foreign policy in December this year. Prime Minister, two days from New Year's Eve. When will there be a debate about Polish foreign policy? The Polish People's Party will submit amendments to the proposed draft budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u419	Thank you very much. Please take the floor... Excuse me, the Prime Minister has asked for the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] You're welcome, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] [[Now it's going to be reprimanded.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u420	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In his speech, Professor Żyżyński spoke about the fact that the budget law, the budget debate, is one of the most important events which here, in Parliament, should focus all of us on matters that are important for citizens. You can of course have a different point of view, because for 8 years those who sit in opposition benches, as well as the new clubs that first came here, were not particularly interested in the fate of the average Pole. Today you talk a lot about indicators that are really important, but I am amazed to hear the speech of the head of the opposition club, which first praises the budget presented by us, quoting even the entire parts of it, and then carelessly states that you will not support this budget. Because what's the point of your rhetoric, ladies and gentlemen? [[Corrigendum.]] You negate everything the Poles expect and the decisions that the Poles made in the parliamentary elections. [[Applause]] You can't accept the fact that today you're sitting in opposition benches and having no argument... Because how can you criticize a program that is supposed to support Polish families? [[And where is he?]] How dare you look Polish families in the eye? Aren't you ashamed? [[Applause]] [[Where's the show?]] The fact that for eight years you have focused only on securing the interests of certain selected groups is a fact. That today you don't want to change that optics and look at fate. Polish families, that is also a fact. But the Poles have already billed you for it. Today, we need to talk. about what Polish citizens expect. I don't hide it, the government of Law and Justice doesn't hide it, our white-red team, that we're going to pursue the country's economic and social policies differently. For us, an average citizen will be important. [[Applause]] And this budget, which we are presenting today, has this one important priority, whose implementation we are starting - this is a programme to support Polish families, and we will be consistent in this. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Because we prefer to support Polish families rather than foreign corporations. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Where are we going to get the money for this program? It's written down in this budget. Mr Shamacha pointed this out very clearly. We will be consistent in improving the revenue side of the state budget by actually collecting those taxes that are due to the State and which many are not paying today. And for eight years, you've agreed to this. [[Applause]] We This system will be improved, we will fix this system so that good programs can be implemented for the Polish state and for Polish citizens. We're gonna lower our taxes. Stay calm. We will carry out all the reforms that we have announced because we are consistent and, unlike you, we say 'it is impossible' when you say 'it is impossible' and you say 'it is impossible', because you see only the political interest. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] Where is this declaration of cooperation, a substantive discussion about matters important for Poles, which the opposition clubs reported here? Did your representatives, ladies and gentlemen, come up with just one sentence in this debate on the budget, which would be in substance? Or is it just about political criticism, no, because it's not? [[Applause]] [[Yes!]] Today, many reforms have to be carried out in Poland, the state has to be repaired, and what you have ruined for eight years has to be repaired. I, Mr President, would not refer to examples of those draft laws that were thrown into the basket. Remember the citizens' projects you were throwing in the trash about six-year-olds or an increase in the retirement age. You were the minister at the time. You didn't want to talk about it at all. [[Applause]] Today, you care about those projects that are being debated later. [[Millions of signatures.]] [[Voice from the room: You reject at first reading.]] And if the issue of Poland, the Polish state, if the fate of Polish citizens is really important for you, then let's talk here, what to do to introduce such development programs that will ensure faster economic growth in Poland, because today Poland needs faster growth, Poles need to earn more, Polish families need to have support, we need to rebuild the Polish industry, what has been abandoned for 8 years and previously sold. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And the President knows that too. We will consistently implement the programme to which we have committed. We will not implement it under the dictation of Platform or Modern Members, we will implement it under the dictation of citizens, because they have given us a mandate to implement it. [[Applause]] If the fate of Poland, the fate of Polish citizens is important for Members of the opposition, then I encourage you to lean on this budget, to point out these programs, these projects, which you also believe are important for Polish development. Let's discuss this. Don't make a political fuss all the time, and don't scare the Poles. - don't scare the Poles. Eight years you've been scaring the Law and Justice. Poles are tired of practicing politics like this. That's not what we're paid for, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can do nothing but... [[Media.]] ...a political theater. [[Voice from the Chamber: Court.]] [[Applause]] If you're asking each other today... [[Bravo!]] ...the state for work on individual bill projects, the difference between us is that we are submitting these projects, and so far you have not submitted any. [[Applause]] [[None.]] Poles are wise and know perfectly well that time is needed for everything and everything needs to be properly prepared, planned and carried out. And we're gonna do this because, unlike you, we're saying it's possible, and you're always saying it's impossible, but you're only doing it to secure the interests of those groups that are very supportive today... [[It was! How many times can you listen to that?]] [[Voice from the room: Once more can be done.]] ...and who do not see that there are still ordinary people besides those chosen, who very often do not have anything to live out today. And that's why we're gonna run the 500 PLN program on the baby. [[Applause]] [[Poles are not ordinary.]] And don't mislead people, don't interpret this program in your own way. I recommend reading this, listening - Minister Rafalska is always ready to answer if you do not understand what has been written there. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The programme will be implemented, as we have shown, as we have assumed, from 1 April 2016. We're spending money to support families. 500 PLN... [[But where's the project? Where's the project? He's not here.]] ...for every child in the family - 500 PLN for every... [[Voice from the room: In consultation there is.]] ...child in the family, if the income is below 800 PLN... [[There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: But it will be.]] ...and in front of a child with a disabled 1,200 zlotys. If it's above, for every second and every second. [[But there isn't one in the Seym.]] Do not mislead the Poles. I encourage you to work on this project because it's a good program and you... [[But where is he?]] ...you know that. You know this is a good show... [[Voice from the Chamber: In public consultation.]] And that's why you're afraid to work on it. [[Voice from the room: Please ask for it.]] I encourage all Members, all of you... [[Then put it in the Sejm.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The obligation to consult is.]] ...who today are demanding that you find some time for this project - apart from these screams and doing this political comedy about the changes in the courthouse and those substitute topics that you are empathizing with Poles today. Reach out, go to the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, that's where the project is. I'll tell you more, you can have your... [[Voice from the hall: Well, in the Seym...]] ...attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the e-mail address that is given there. We will be happy to collect all these comments, because that is our philosophy - these important projects will be socially consulted and we want to know the opinion of all Poles, all those who are interested in... [[Bravo!]] ...and that concerns them. You too. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will make these changes that Poland needs today. We will make Poland grow faster, that Polish families will feel safe, that Polish industry will be an industry that will compete on world markets, that we will be proud of the Polish brand, Polish production, and Polish citizens will feel safe. We will do this because we are consistent and listen to Poles. Today, this budget is the first step this way. We will consistently carry out what we have committed to our fellow countrymen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u421	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz submitted a corrigendum. I have only such a huge request, Mr President, that, in accordance with the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm were corrected by misunderstood or misconstrued statements of the speaker. Since you still have time as clubs, the debate can continue. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u422	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister said we didn't submit a project. Prime Minister, you have already rejected our projects - at first reading, after an hour of discussion on the programme of 40 years of work and the possibility of retirement... [[Voice from the room: The platform rejected.]] ...as soon as you abstained from voting, you rejected [[Applause]] This project, really. You didn't want to work on it, but you're probably gonna want to bring it in, just as your own, so someone wouldn't accidentally say that a good project came out of the opposition bench. [[Voice from the room: It was tactics.]] And how is that, Prime Minister, for your invitation to work on this budget? We will work, we will make amendments, just as I would like the Prime Minister to declare that you will open yourselves to some amendments of the opposition, that you will want to accept them, and not like the Civil Service Act - the committee accepts one thing, you come to the sitting room, you turn everything back to what has been accepted. [[Voice from the room: You have not accepted the amendments.]] And that's what you're going to do if the project isn't notified by you. It was the same. with special additions. Our bill was also declared first, and you quickly wrote yours, similar to ours, so that you would not give the opposition a chance to submit any ideas. [[Voice from the room: 8 years.]] As far as public consultation is concerned, because you are very often talking about it, unfortunately you are submitting parliamentary projects mostly, they dominate, 90% are parliamentary projects which have not been subject to any consultation, no discussion with society, no social dialogue, and government projects under trade union laws must be consulted about employers. It is your duty as a government - to consult government laws. More government laws, more consultation, more openness to opposition proposals. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: But they're in consultation.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u423	Thank you. Mr Sławomir Neumann also submitted a corrigendum. With the same request, Mr President, to correct the misunderstood statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u424	Mr. Marshal! Yes, of course. In addition to the corrigendum, I have a thank you to the Prime Minister, so I think you'll allow me to also say thank you. First, the corrigendum. Prime Minister, we are talking about what is here and now, not about your electoral promises or the swearing of reality, which was proposed by the PiS in the election campaign. We're talking about what we have. We have a budget. You take care of Polish families, you put two new taxes on them. Because it's the Polish families who will pay the bank tax, not the shareholders, not the bad bankers. [[Voice from the room: Don't be ridiculous.]] Polish families who have a mortgage will pay higher instalments, families who have a consumer loan will pay higher instalments, they will pay for keeping the account. First, Polish families will pay for it. [[Voice from the hall: Poles will change the bank.]] And the second tax, the tax on hypermarkets, will pay Polish families, buying goods there, because eventually it will be paid by Polish families. You take this money, of course, and this is how you deal with Polish families. On the other hand, we do not see other projects, they are not in the Seym, Prime Minister. When we see them, we'll discuss them. And today all you do, taking care of Polish families, is impose two new taxes on them. And this is the real fulfillment of your election promises, your passwords. And now to thank you, Mr. Marshal, to the Prime Minister for scolding the Law and Justice Club for throwing in substitute topics, for throwing in the topic of the Constitutional Court, the Civil Service, the Police... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Media.]] ...media. Thank you, Prime Minister. We, too, believe that the substitute topics put forward by Members are inappropriate here. [[120 requests for a break.]] We'd rather work on the budget, because we're going to report amendments, and we're going to try to fix it, and we're going to fix what you've ruined after this good platform budget. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You want to reject the budget.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u425	Unfortunately, I cannot thank you for this because, in the light of the article, Mr President, I am unable to thank you. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm were not corrected at all. [[But almost, close.]] [[Voice from the room: Kara!]] Please take the floor of Mr Wiesław Janczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u426	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I congratulate the head of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, who referred to many figures, statistics to his complacency. This view doesn't reflect society, people don't share it, because the numbers don't reflect the social mood... [[Numbers! Numbers!]] ...which has effectively distracted you from building further budgets. I would like to express my joy that you will not have a significant impact on the shape of this budget, which was presented to the government by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. For the leader of another opposition club, that's my point. With some cynical courage, you are challengingly referring here to the immediate achievement of all the programme objectives that we have undertaken in the course of the elections. [[How's that?]] We do not withdraw from these objectives, but respectful of competence, professional preparation, I would ask that each time I support my proposals with proposals to increase revenue to the state budget, because for 8 years of government of the Civic Platform there was no courage to create a budget in such a way that it formulated rules for sustainable growth in Poland. It was only a very conservative, conservative, firmly cooling document, [[Applause]] fulfilling perhaps many of the rules that the European Union is imposing on us, many of the rules that we imposed on ourselves, but each time it was a document that strongly cooled the activity of Poles and did not give us the prospect of sustainable growth. In my speech, I planned to discuss the situation of the budget's tax revenue. I invite you to this tour of events which for 8 years generated the Civic Platform, creating a conservative budget, without presenting any courage in modifying the structure it found. Probably the PO wouldn't have lost to us the elections if it hadn't ignored the country's budget's annual tax revenues in relation to GDP, with such a gigantic force in the media, which is still showing its desperate power today. It is such an assessment of facts and sad truth for those members of the Platform and PSL who do not yet want to get off the air-conditioned bus to which they travelled for 8 years, losing contact with people and their problems. In the nearest, but rightly past, often duplicated reaction, the recipe for the ever lower revenue of the budget in relation to GDP was cutting expenditure, cutting and freezing wages and salaries in the public domain, in the administration. Let me remind you, the tax-free amount has increased for the entire 8 years, please countries, by only 2 zlotys, half of the funeral allowance has been taken away, and the annual amounts of pension benefits were symbolic, far from expectations. The retirement age was extended to show a smaller amount under off-balance sheet liabilities. Tax disputes began with conflicts, wars. Often people argued not that they did not want to pay taxes, but that this tribute was unfairly distributed, that is, it was burdened even more, even more so only those who paid. An example can be 2012 when the VAT rate increases by 1% it has not resulted in an improvement in budgetary revenue for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, VAT was supposed to be a panacea for everything. The weak countries in Europe and the world have been told: you can sell everything you have, everything that the public sector has, privatize everything that is state-owned, all production resources, factories, mines, shipbuilding, and you will save on it because you will not even bear the costs of managing such a substance, and the modern state will keep its expenditure and administration from VAT revenues. Except no one's ever counted it. It was a vain promise, because it ended as shown in the following budgets constructed by the Civic Platform: a systematic decline in income in relation to GDP. Total GDP increased by more than 24% from 2010 to 2015 and VAT revenues by only 13%. Ladies and gentlemen, the declaration of the United States of America of 4 July 1776 - it can be applied in a passage above all to the demands and privileges of citizens in the country - says: Experience has shown that people prefer to suffer all the evil that is bearable rather than straighten their paths by removing the forms to which they are accustomed. This can become the right definition and illustration of stagnation, which in the sense of ideas for development and exit from the middle development trap was the subject of the previous government team. The European Union's funds are spent on principles which did not generate sustainable growth, in accordance with principles not targeted and cost-effective, money grabbing, grants and loans, those borrowed, construction of motorways and expressways built at 200 million per km, stadiums. On the occasion of flagship investments, thousands of Polish companies were sent to bailiffs working, as it turned out, slavely, because for free, during the construction of stadiums, roads and highways. It needs to be said again today, to remind you of that. This is reflected in successive budgets, which have a common feature of systematically and threateningly decreasing tax revenues of the State in relation to GDP. The Minister of Finance gives a clear example, recalling PricewaterhouseCoopers' estimates that the VAT gap in Poland, Anna Domini, is already PLN 53 billion this year. Calculate this amount on the increase that it has for the budget, for the next budgets, for the budget that is being constructed today for 2016. Let us recall again what Donald Tusk first did in the face of the financial crisis. He froze his pay. Freezing is a post-balcerowiczian art of governance. The annual budget presented by the PO was mostly very schematic, with no innovation or idea for forward-looking, long-term growth over the years. Even as OFE was deleted, which led to a significant improvement in the debt ratio, no idea was introduced in the Sejm, which could be undertaken, started, proposed not to waste another year, to expand the offer of Polish industry, Polish entrepreneurship, competitiveness of Polish export offer or even to propose and take up an improvement in the competitiveness of Polish products in the internal market. What a huge dispute was triggered by the modification of the stabilisation rule two weeks ago, that it was an attack on finance, on elements of countercyclicality enshrined in the rule. What about the subprime crisis, the financial market crisis at the beginning of the Civic Platform? Ladies and gentlemen, the public works, public investment on a large scale were being wiped out in fear and panic, the budget was being changed, the expenditure was cut, because this was a lack of courage - this is what you spoke about by the president of the Civic Platform Club - to spend public money smoothly planned to be spent earlier in a situation of high uncertainty in the market for investment and commercial services, and that is exactly what the state was supposed to be and must be, and should be a courageous partner and maintain the liquidity of the investment market as the most powerful contracting investor. All of this has had a great impact over the years on the deteriorating quality of income of companies operating in Poland and as a result of the government's budget revenue. [[Applause]] Additional elements of the weakening of revenue to the budget were created in the currency crisis on foreign exchange options, where several billion and more billions were produced according to various data. They did not support Polish companies through supervisory activities towards counterparties or suspend the use of BTE. You lacked the courage to act, ladies and gentlemen. This can be added to the high margins applied for 8 years on banking retail products, card commissions, consumer credit margins three times higher than abroad than with neighbours. And all this with the public, silent acceptance of the government or even the open permission of the government to drain billions from Polish pockets for commissions from card operations many times higher than in other countries of the European Union, to pay commitments for concluded currency options contracts, commissions and fees. These were elements that inhibited growth and revenue into the budget. For the first time in eight years today, we have a budget that expresses something, shows direction, shows... [[What?]] ...which is important to you. This is primarily the implementation of the flagship programme of Law and Justice 500+ addressed to families. The introduction of a policy that can, as a consequence, change the situation of many Polish families raising children, can break the demographic deadlock in Poland while triggering internal demand, which is expected from this point of view. In parallel, a number of revenue-side sizes are included in the budget, which are expected to result in an increasing flow of tax revenue, also due to the sealing of the tax system. The revenue-raising activities will include the introduction of sector-specific taxes on banks, insurance companies, loans and large-area shops, but above all the sealing of the tax system, which is consistent with the Ecofin Council recommendation for Poland last year. Increasing the collection of public danins, mainly from VAT, is currently a priority. The problems that have persisted in this regard for several years have led to the endless need to consolidate public finances by holding back the expenditure side of the state budget. Thanks to the sealing of the tax system, it will be possible to implement the social policy of the country announced in the Law and Justice programme and repeated by Prime Minister Beata Szydło in the exposé. Fiscal policy will be pursued in accordance with the limitations of European and national Union law, in particular the excessive deficit procedure and the stabilisation of the expenditure rule. The State is to assume the obligation to maintain the liquidity of economic turnover in industry, in construction, in the creation of infrastructure, maintaining the liquidity and security buffer. What the previous government was able to apply is mainly to systematically cool the economy, cut expenditure, without counting the effects of this operation on the growth rate, on the income of companies, and consequently on budget revenues, as the only antidote to the loss of control of tax revenues to the state budget. The government Prime Minister Beata Szydło submitted a budget in which the revenue is planned for PLN 313 788 million. In fact, this is a large increase in revenue compared to 2015, when these revenue items were estimated to amount to 286 700 million. Expenditure is planned at 368 528 million, deficit at 54 740 million. The revenue forecast is based on the forecast for 2016 for a higher GDP growth rate - 3.8 to 3.4 this year, the annual average price increase of consumer goods and services - 1.7% , salary increases in the national economy - 3.6, employment growth in the national economy - 0.8, private consumption growth in nominal terms - 5.5%. The level of revenue of the State budget will be positively affected by the planned one-off auction fee for the 800 and 2600 MHz frequency reservation, the introduction of a tax on certain financial and insurance institutions. The stream of tax revenue will also be determined by the effects of measures aimed at increasing compliance with tax rules and improving efficiency. Expenditure. In addition to a number of new and continued actions, the expenditure from the State budget for the next year has secured the resources for implementing the priority programme of the Government of the 500+ family. In the amount of State budget expenditure, funds are planned to finance and co-finance programmes implemented with Union funds under the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund and Union funds financing the common agricultural policy, but also funds from the assistance provided by the Member States to the European Free Trade Agreement EFTA. Additional elements of growth, which can translate into an even greater improvement in tax revenue, will be the creation of a law conducive to the economic development of our country, which will also be motivating in addition to fiscal functions. Development of infrastructure, support for family businesses, creation of stable jobs, exploitation of economies of scale, the more they produce, the lower the unit price can be. Shaping consumer decisions, purchasing decisions of Polish consumers, who decide to spend their hard-earned money, decide who develops faster. The mechanism for the promotion of Polish goods and services needs to be launched. No one's done that in the last quarter of a century. [[Applause]] [[And what was in Milan?]] Minimising the costs of handling the debt incurred. With the full openness of the Polish market for Western companies, the state must strengthen its activities aimed at opening up Western markets. The state must promote a good image of Polish products and services. It is necessary to promote the construction of capital of Polish companies, to increase the level of social trust. All of this can make the level of revenue of the budget planned for this year even higher. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u427	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u428	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! It is very good that Mr Janczyk reminded us of how difficult macroeconomic conditions it was to govern the Civic Platform. And I think that you now appreciate that under these conditions we have increased Polish GDP by more than 24%. The Polish economy grew by 1/4. [[Applause]] And this, Mr Janczyk, that the deficit in those years was significantly higher compared to GDP than it is now, shows that we have not cooled down the economy, is precisely proof that we have supported this economy. And the crisis is over, the economy is accelerating. The Minister of Finance of the Law and Justice had the chance to become the beneficiary of the responsible, consistent financial policy of the Civic Platform. Unfortunately, the actions of the Minister responsible have changed into desperate actions, and the effects of these actions will be felt as early as June 2016 when he will construct the 2017 budget. It won't be an easy task, Minister. So far, PiS has inherited a stable, good budget of 2015. He had the chance to send a good signal to entrepreneurs, also to Polish entrepreneurs, which would be: we will continue our responsible financial policy, we will be going towards a medium-term budgetary objective, i.e. a deficit of 1%. GDP. There is no better time to reduce the deficit than the time we have now. The economy has accelerated, the economy is developing well. Contrary to what Professor Żyżyński says, it is really with a deficit that it is worth it from time to time, however, to be smaller. It is worth it when the economy is developing well, the influence is high. That is why these tasks pro publico bono can be carried out in the times in which we ruled. Then it's time to increase the deficit. Unfortunately, the Minister didn't take the chance. At the entrance increased the budget deficit. This year he raised 9 billion. From 2015 he postponed it to 2016, so the deficit in 2015 could be significantly lower than 46 billion and you raised it to 50 billion. As a result, you may have had lower profitability, lower cost of debt service. You didn't take advantage of this opportunity, and it was the Minister of Finance's first desperate move. Unfortunately, you still have to desperately look for money, because you have a lot of promises, and the budget isn't made of rubber, which I think is slow, with pain, you find out and probably the whole government. You are presenting today the 2016 budget, in which you have announced good changes. The budget was to be worked hard by the entire government of Law and Justice, a whole white and red team, as Prime Minister Beata Szydło was just talking about, which seems to be still at the election rally. So what are the results of this hard work of the entire PiS team in the 2016 budget? In addition to the 9 billion you've raised this year, you've introduced two new taxes. Of course, you enter them with your forehead up, because you are like Janosik, who takes away the rich and gives away to the poor. We all love Janosik. We're on the side of the poor. Unfortunately, Mr President, the 7.5 billion you will take away from hypermarkets, banks, insurers, they will take away their customers, small Polish entrepreneurs who supply goods to hypermarkets. That's life. Besides, bank tax, when you're probably gonna have to reach for billions more to the banks to save the SKOKs, it's a pretty risky move at all. Thus, these two new taxes are another desperate movement by the Minister of Finance, also dictated by a certain obsession. You guys are obsessed with fat cats. Your Members and Ministers still see fat cats that need to be robbed, and you believe that this is a recipe for prosperity for everyone. Unfortunately, that's not how it works. Another obsession is foreign capital. The banking tax was to be dedicated primarily to foreign companies, foreign capital. The Prime Minister also mentioned this a moment ago. Well, unfortunately, it didn't work out. What will happen to the bank tax, the biggest income you have proposed as a new one, in the 2016 budget? This tax will mainly hit two thriving Polish companies: PZU and PKO Bank Polski. These two companies will pay the biggest bank tax. This is supporting Polish capital, which you spoke so much about? It doesn't seem to work out for you. In addition, PKO BP was supposed to be the bank to which, if other banks transfer tax costs to customers, your customers would move. How are you gonna do that if PKO BP pays the biggest tax? I think nearly a billion, 900 million, that's what Deputy Minister Raczkowski said today on the finance committee. After all, Prime Minister Morawiecki knows perfectly well that the price of capital is a more important parameter for economic development than its nationality. We would like to have all Polish banks, Polish institutions, Polish companies, Polish investments, only that it is impossible to conjure Polish capital like a touch of a magic wand. The Polish capital is being worked for a very long time, primarily by the government, conducting a responsible and economical policy, which Mr Janczyk so criticised. This is done by reducing the deficit, while you did everything backwards: you raised the deficit, so you raised the risk premiums, increased the cost of capital, increased the cost of investment. What Polish entrepreneur will want to invest in such conditions? So we have two new things in the 2016 budget: 9 billion and two new taxes. And actually, the intellectual effort of the white-red PiS team ended there. And this is where the problem begins, because the higher income is de facto 7.5 billion, as the 9 of LTE is called. they off for those who do not respect the Polish language, but actually disposable income. You won't have it in 2017. Meanwhile, 500+ is about 20 billion. Free amount... [[Voice from the room: 11.]] Member, you estimate this differently, don't you? There's no government consent about that either. We'll wait. If you want to keep your promise, that would be 20 billion. Free amount, if you keep your promise, that's another 20 billion. And the lower retirement age is ultimately 10 billion. You need 50 billion, and you have less than 10. So where are you gonna find those 40 missing billions to fulfill your election promises? And the Prime Minister says it's a priority. No matter what risks this poses to public finances, no matter that the Polish economy will not be safe, you do not care about the security of the Polish economy, nor about the long-term pro-family policy. The point is to fulfill the electoral promises that taxpayers will pay for, because this has given you unlimited power, or, in fact, you want unlimited power, unlimited even by the Constitutional Tribunal's judgments. This is your real plan. This is your real plan. And you don't even count on the fact that over EUR 82 billion that the Civic Platform government has negotiated with the European Union will only be used in Poland if you keep the deficit below 3% GDP. You are unable to do this in 2017 and 2018, and this 82 billion we have negotiated not for the government of one, the other or the third, but for Polish families. For Polish families. To accuse us that we don't care about them is simply a lie, a wickedness. Minister Szalamacha once said from this podium, when he was destroying the spending rule, that the Polish government would not be told what to do because he is independent. Minister, of course he's independent, but the Greek government It is also independent, Greece is also a free and independent country, but what the Greek Government can and cannot do is not decided by free Greeks, but by borrowers. And the point is not to lead to this situation. [[Creditors.]] Therefore, the Civic Platform in opposition will also guard the security of the Polish economy, because the security of the Polish economy is the security of Polish families, and they are the most important to us. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] What are you gonna tell your parents in three or four years when it turns out that public finances can't afford your 500 zlotys for every kid? Are you gonna raise the tax, or are you gonna undo the program? We support every rational, reasonable family-friendly program, we have introduced 1000 PLN for each child throughout the year, parental leave, we have built nursery and kindergarten, we agree that family-friendly policy is extremely important, but it must be responsible and must be safe, because it is a long-term action, calculated over several decades and not for several years. You're saying that the 40 billion you're missing will be found sealing the tax system. Moreover, Prime Minister Morawiecki estimates this much lower, of course, and it is known that you will not find 40 billion, no matter how hard you try. But, Prime Minister, Polish taxpayers in the vast majority are honest entrepreneurs and honest citizens. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] And they pay taxes not because they're afraid of the IRS. They pay because they believe that the state has the right to pay public tribute under the Constitution. How are you gonna get these people to pay their taxes fair and square while you're breaking the law and breaking the constitution? You're losing the moral right to expect citizens to obey the law because you're breaking the law. Since you do not have an idea for this additional income, I would like Minister Szalamacha to commit, here in the Polish Parliament, that he will not raise VAT, as will the guru of your political formation Viktor Orbán, to 27%. Because I do not know if you know that Hungary, which you are looking at with such jealousy, has 27 percent VAT. And I would also like Minister Shamacha of this speaker to say that he will reduce VAT to 22% and 7% in 2017 under the Act. As foreseen by the Act. This return to VAT 22% and 7% He's gonna be a litmus paper for you. We'll say next year, "I'm checking." And it's worth remembering that the government's hard work isn't about inventing new taxes. The Civic Platform therefore requests that the draft budget be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u429	Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Tyszka, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u430	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! What we hear here from the representatives of the Civic Platform, especially what they say about the budget deficit, are the Himalayas of hypocrisy. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Yes, sir, bravo!]] Unfortunately, what I am going to discuss now is the common budget of the Civic Platform and of Law and Justice. The first thing I want to draw attention to are unrealistic macroeconomic assumptions on which this budget is based, or, to put it simply, creative accounting. The government presents significantly exaggerated assumptions regarding GDP growth and inflation in relation to the forecasts of the National Bank of Poland. Overestimation of these indicators leads to irresponsible overestimation of estimated budgetary revenues. What does this creative accounting mean? Well, the government gathers the fruits of the election campaign, where, according to the Partyocracy's custom, it has made many prosocial, expensive promises, and now it does not find the means to achieve them. Therefore, he had two choices - or honestly admit to his voters: we have deceived you, we have no money for the willow pear we promised you, or we have resorted to this creative accounting in budgeting. We regret that the government has chosen this path because it threatens to break public finances. Secondly, and in view of the above, the government's tax revenue in the draft budget seems highly overestimated and unbelievable. As regards VAT, the government assumes an increase in revenue by PLN 7 billion based on inflation forecasts, but also the so-called. sealing of tax revenues. The problem is that we still haven't seen a law that would seal the tax system in this dimension, and what was presented during the election campaign, according to our experts, can have the opposite effect, which is to reduce VAT revenues. As far as the bank tax is concerned, the calculations provided by KNF show that the tax on financial institutions can give the budget PLN 4.5 billion, or PLN 1 billion less than the government established. As far as the tax on supermarkets is concerned, without the bill we do not know which estimates are realistic - whether these amounts to PLN 3.5 billion, given by Minister Kowalczyk, or PLN 2.5 billion given by Minister Shamacha or PLN 2 billion in the budget. Or are they actually going to be even less? As far as CIT is concerned, the government plans to increase CIT revenues by PLN 400 million, which can be justified inter alia. economic growth. The draft budget would therefore indicate that the government is not planning to seal the CIT tax. Meanwhile, it is estimated that losses of the Polish budget from the transfer of profits by foreign corporations amount to up to PLN 10 billion. I would not like to see this as a result of the continuation of the tax philosophy of the Civic Platform, i.e. focusing fiscal efforts on harassing small Polish and medium-sized enterprises with tax controls, while at the same time international corporations transfer profits counted in billions abroad. [[Applause]] Fourthly, what is missing from the published budget? The answer is simple: the electoral promises made by Law and Justice in the election campaign. Law and Justice promised Poles a tax reduction. But it turned out to be an empty slogan. In the government budget there are no promises by the PiS: reductions in the pension contribution, increases in the amount free of PIT, VAT reductions to 22% and 7% , CIT reductions for small companies up to 15% and the liquidation of the KGHM tax. The PiS begins its governance with electoral fraud because it intends to maintain the tax increases introduced by the Civic Platform. We have calculated that this lie will cost the average Polish family 2500 PLN per year, because that is what the household will lose to maintain higher VAT rates, the pension contribution and the frozen amount free of PIT. The government plans a record deficit in the Third Republic of Poland and further debt of Poles. Increasing the deficit is a higher cost of handling public debt. Today it amounts to about PLN 30 billion per year, which is almost what we spend on the military, twice as much as we spend on higher education, or 15 times as much as on culture. The PiS government continues its irresponsible debt policy, taking another moment on its own electoral promises at the expense of future generations of Poles. Finally, the increase in spending on bureaucracy, officials, new offices. The 2016 Budget Act rather than reducing the expenditure on bureaucracy increases. The Act does not provide for the liquidation of any offices, no ministries, but provides for funds for new offices, two new ministries, a significant increase in administrative costs. The most interesting is the increase in the budget for the tax administration and the Social Security Office. Poland after Slovakia has the most expensive tax system from all OECD countries. All in all, we're holding 100,000. Officials and we spend almost PLN 10 billion on tax collection, other danin and pension service. And what does the Law and Justice Government do? It increases the budget of ZUS by PLN 200 million, the budget of tax and customs offices by PLN 300 million. This is a waste of taxpayers' money. The Kukiz Movement15 considers that the Social Insurance Institution should be merged as soon as possible with the tax administration into one office and thus reduce tax collection costs. [[Applause]] In conclusion, this budget, which is practically a common budget of Law and Justice and the Civic Platform, is the budget of increased expenditure, increased deficit, unrealistic assumptions, overestimated influence and increased bureaucracy. The Kukiz Club15 is against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u431	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, will speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Budget 2016. I'll get right to the details. The average annual inflation level is particularly questionable in the budget. National Bank of Poland assumes that inflation levels in the next year will be 1,1% And the government puts it at 1.7, which is a lot higher. If, according to our forecasts, prices increase slower, we will note lower than the assumed revenue to the budget for the tax on goods and services. However, in the future budget for VAT revenue, more than 6% growth was assumed year by year. We have had problems with the implementation of the VAT budget already this year. If these problems are repeated, and the calculated inflation rate is lower, we're going to write a big gap in revenue here. Worst of all, it is not apparent that the government is creating any space to reduce VAT to an earlier rate, i.e. a rate of 22 percent. And yet the law provides for a higher 23 percent rate by the end of next year. Another problem in macroeconomic assumptions is, of course, GDP growth. Government accepted 3.8% , NBP assumes an increase of 3.3% and thus lower than the budget law. It is estimated that GDP growth by 1 percentage point lower than expected can reduce revenue to the budget by up to PLN 5 billion. A level that's not that high, but in comparison with other underestimations, it could give a pretty big sum. Despite the adoption of high inflation, which may be surprising, the Budget Act assumes that interest rates will remain unchanged by the end of the year. This is where growth could be predicted, especially if prices and interest rates in the environment start to rise. The Budgetary Act assumes a close 2% increase in CIT revenue and more than 4% in PIT. I do not believe that these increases have been well calculated in the face of the introduction of new taxes on assets and turnover. Although bank taxes and large-scale shops will only apply to selected industries, they may have an impact on income tax revenues and therefore no budget corrections have been taken into account. However, the biggest problem - what has already happened here - is the programme introduced by the Law and Justice - Family 500+. Prime Minister! You don't exactly have the Prime Minister with us. We're not talking about the validity of this program, that's not what we're discussing today. We are only talking about the way it is introduced and the sources of its funding. Ladies and gentlemen! The campaign is over, let's talk about facts. You are introducing a very expensive, multi-annual social programme in a completely irresponsible way. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] According to previous forecasts, the 500+ family programme will cost around PLN 17 billion in the budget next year. Unprecise accounts and sources of funding are concerned. This very expensive multi-annual programme will be covered, first of all, by sources of uncertainty, i.e. new taxes on banks, large-area shops, which are not yet available and if they are no longer available - they are supposed to give a total of PLN 7.5 billion, different estimates predict different influences here, it is difficult to say, since there is no legal basis for their particular calculation - secondly, from one-off revenues, i.e. auctions for the frequency of LTE. The impacts carried over from the current year to the next year of just over PLN 9 billion on common sense and according to all principles of economics should not finance multi-annual social programmes, because they are one-off and will create a terrible gap in the next year. It's been a long time since I've seen this irresponsible government thing. I wonder if Minister Morawiecki in his previous job would give his client a long, large loan for the expansion of the company for a one-year contract. I think a vision of 17 billion reserves would change the way you think. In addition, today we see that in the original calculation the costs of this programme have been underestimated. The work resort recounted the costs and it turned out that only next year it would be necessary to add 1.7 billion and 2.5 billion in the following years. What if it's not really enough? In addition to the programme, there are still many other social elements in the budget. Good, we want to support Poles, but everything within reason. Let me quote the Prime Minister from old times: This is undoubtedly just the electoral budget. It is once again such an attempt to buy the votes of Poles, but I think that Poles are already smart enough to realize that it is not thinking about development, about investment, about the future, but it is just an ad hoc political settlement. This is what the 2016 budget was talking about in September this year, yet a candidate for the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, Mrs Beata Szydło. Moreover, the budget must not only be an ad hoc one-year document, but there must be a certain perspective and a look into the future - we heard from the Prime Minister in the campaign. [[Exactly.]] So what happened, Prime Minister, that today you no longer think strategically, only briefly, that today you are putting public finances at a huge risk to deal with political matters that you do not want to look forward and see problems that will grow there? Higher deficits, debt increases, new taxes overeated. Enjoy your meal. But also the Prime Minister, and the Law and Justice know well that it will be hiccuped with a lot of hiccups. A hole in the Social Insurance Fund established for the next year... [[7% of hungry children.]] ...is almost PLN 63 billion, and we know that it will grow further. The PiS government does not want to carry out reforms that could stop this problem, and what is more, it wants to undo what has already been done. We are the only ones who speak out loud: we cannot afford any more privileges. The balance sheet of the pension fund that secures the insurance of farmers is tragic. Out of 21 billion revenue 17.7% is supplemented by the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, more than 80% We pay off taxes of Poles and Poles. A reform of the CRUS is therefore necessary. The use of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund for years by people who have nothing to do with agriculture is actually unacceptable. It is extremely irresponsible to have any of the other teams in charge on this subject. After all, we all know that in Poland this insurance is paid very often by people who do not work in the countryside, or even live in the city, but every subsequent government did not really have the courage to organize this topic. Unfortunately, we also have great doubts as to whether Law and Justice will take up this challenge. In conclusion, this budget is not as safe as you think. You are introducing a very expensive program and it will be a huge burden on the budget and public finances and will close Poland's path to other important changes that we need. You're balancing at the border, and you're not taking advantage of the opportunity to reduce the deficit. If this continues, we will return to the path of the excessive deficit procedure faster than we could have expected from the Law and Justice campaign. You don't leave room for stumbling at all. And finally, Let me agree with Mr Żyzyński here. Yes, sir, it is easy to mess things up, much harder to fix. It's easy to give money to Poles, it'll be much harder to take it away if something goes wrong. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u433	Thank you. Ms Genowef Tokarska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will speak. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget law for 2016 consists of several elements. Some confusion introduces a descriptive part of the draft budget. Remembering the slogans proclaimed by the PiS in the election campaign, and not only because during the substantive discussions on the documents of the previous term, and even in the exposé, we heard constantly defining the existing state of our country: ruin, economic disaster, collapse, unemployment, starving children. Today, the reality described in the documents of the current draft budget, submitted by the current government of PiS, is quite different. I quote parts of the descriptions of the current situation: Poland is positively perceived by foreign investors and positively evaluated by credit rating agencies. Another example: There has been a clear acceleration of the pace of economic growth of Poland - and here the next years with an indication of GDP. And so in the same situation PiS can speak differently, depending on the need. I'm just wondering because you don't know when he's telling the truth and when he's lying. It is clear from the analysis of the budget submitted that you have received both the state and public finances in good condition and a well-growing economy. There was no need to change, modify, as you said, the 2015 budget law, there was no need to do so. It was just a manipulation that you wanted to show that the current year was worse than it actually was. In the absence of time, I will not have even the most important parameters of the 2006 budget. [[Voice from the room: 16th.]] Maybe I'll just pay attention to an increase in exports by 6%. with an average annual period from 2008 to 2014 - 4,7%. I would like to stress that exports have been a strong part of our economy for several years. The increase in exports from year to year shows the enormous activity of the government of recent years, including leading economic and agricultural departments, as well as - and perhaps above all - huge competition of our products and activities of Polish entrepreneurs. And that's an incredibly upbuilding accent. Tax revenue in 2016 will amount to almost PLN 276 billion, i.e. 7.2% nominally more than the forecast execution of the current year. The highest position of tax revenue is VAT on goods and services, whose performance will be higher by more than 7300 million compared to the current year. We estimate that this tax has been clearly overestimated. Similarly, we believe that there is overestimated income tax on individuals and that it does not take into account the tax-free amount, but that the bill in question has already been proceded in the High House and, bearing in mind the election promises of the PiS, was to be applied, the most important thing is that the tax-free amount should be increased not only because of the promises, but in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, because its value below the rate of existence is illegal. The important position of this budget is non-tax revenue, which will amount to almost PLN 36 billion, which means a 30% increase compared to the projected implementation of this year. The so-called contributions deserve attention. one-off. And here is a contribution to the state budget from a profit of 3,200 million - it was not in previous years - and from the sales of the frequency of PLN 9230 million. The expenditure limit set in the draft budget law is higher than the planned in 2015 by PLN 31 billion, i.e. 9.5%. The service of the Treasury's debt will amount to almost PLN 32 billion. Another very important element is the state public debt, which in 2016 will amount to almost PLN 925 billion in relation to GDP, i.e. 49% , and has a clear upward trend. In conclusion, the club of the Polish People's Party considers that, since the state of our economy and the financial situation of the current government is considered to be good, this should provide a good basis for assessing the submitted draft budget law. It is worth recalling GDP growth of around 3.5% annual, 6-percent export growth, positive external trade balance, investment growth of 8.6% , low inflation, and even deflation this year, falling unemployment to one-digit and generally improving the state of public finances. The proposed budget law is based on a very optimistic macroeconomic forecast, which shows that GDP growth will rise to 3.8% , as well as reducing arrears, mainly in the field of VAT and reducing so-called. the gray zone and the high rate of inflation. This creates tensions in the implementation of projected revenues, and it can therefore be said that it also undermines the reality of expenditure. The aim of the project is to increase social expenditure financed by new taxes and one-off non-tax revenues, hence the question of what in the following years. The 500+ family programme is the only one of the announcements from the PiS campaign. You'd have to think about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] whether it would not be worth focusing part of the budget on the implementation of systemic changes in order to alleviate such a dilemma, that taxes and compulsory contributions of workers and low earners and low workloads of workers are a heavy burden, but a lot of earners. The reason arose in previous years, under the PiS government, when the resignation from the third tax scale of PIT and the introduction of income thresholds, above which insurance does not pay ZUS contributions, did their job. As we understand, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, the needs of society and the country, we also warn against the rise in public debt and its costs and, as a result, the serious negative consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u435	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honored to present my position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the part of agriculture that is widely understood, namely agriculture, rural development and agricultural markets. The analysis of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget for agriculture and rural development planned for 2016 shows that the size and structure of these budgetary expenditure will ensure the smooth implementation of the tasks which fall within the responsibility and responsibilities of the Minister for Agriculture. The urgent tasks of the Minister for Agriculture include improving the income situation in agriculture and improving the stability of income in agricultural production. So far we have too low income in agriculture. Farmers are the social group that gets the lowest income outside pensioners and pensioners. There is a need for urgent action in this area, for action to improve the quality of life in agricultural families, including in rural areas, because there are too many differences in this area. The problem is also the lack of stability on the agricultural markets, especially recently on the pigmeat and milk markets. The previous coalition could not remedy this instability in the markets, which affects a large part of family farms, a large part of agricultural production. Such an urgent task is also to improve the functioning of agencies serving farmers and rural residents, including the use of direct support funds and the Cohesion Fund. Recently, there have been delays in direct payments both for 2015 and probably for 2016. It is also a problem to take action to align the conditions of competition between our agriculture and the European single market. Proper action is needed, the functioning of agricultural advice, which has been seriously destroyed in recent years. It is necessary to rebuild vocational education, to maintain the promotion of Polish food on foreign markets, but also to take action to ensure that the enormous domestic demand of nearly 40 million people should be met mainly by domestic food, which is of high quality, instead of foreign food. In my opinion, the adopted draft budget in the agricultural section will also enable the implementation of the Law and Justice programme, which was explicitly accepted by the Polish village, to be implemented by the agricultural department in cooperation with other resorts. High Izbo, I am also convinced that the budget secures resources for increasing the activity of the Polish government in the international arena, both in contacts with the European Union, WHO, the United States, in order to safeguard the interests of Polish agriculture, the Polish village against the advantage, against the greed of financial oligarchy, international corporations, as well as the governments of other countries which with great care guard their own interests. In this area, the activity of the management of the previous resort was insufficient in my opinion. A few sentences about budget details. The draft State budget for agriculture is contained in three parts, the responsibility of which is the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. That's hi. 32: Agriculture, 33: Rural development and 35: Agricultural markets. In these three parts, together with the expenditure provided for in the special provisions, an amount of PLN 8402 million is planned. In addition to this expenditure, expenditure for KRUS was planned for PLN 18 billion, which together represents PLN 27 billion, i.e. 7.23% the total budget expenditure. In addition, European Union funds of PLN 26 600 million and loans from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for local government units of about PLN 400 million were planned. Taking into account the above-mentioned expenditure items, the amount of agricultural expenditure is expected to be close to PLN 54 billion. High Izbo! As far as the other side of the budget is concerned, which is the income side, it should be noted first of all that it is more than 50 times smaller. The revenue represents only about PLN 900 million. Of course, it is planned to increase by up to 48% compared to 2015, but here the main item, almost the only item increasing this revenue, is the planned revenue from the resources obtained from the management of the Treasury's ownership resources, less the funds spent on these tasks burdening property. A 9% increase in certain charges is also expected, e.g. for authorisations granted by the Ministry of Agriculture, for the placing on the market of plant protection products or other charges levied by the Ministry of Agriculture. On the issue of expenditure, it should be stressed that the most important item of total expenditure at the disposal of the Minister for Agriculture is expenditure in Part 33: Rural development, which accounts for nearly 72% the total expenditure. The second item is the expenditure of Part 32: Agriculture, i.e. around 18% , and 10% will be expenditure in part: Agricultural markets. As regards this Part 33: Rural development, which constitutes a majority of the rural population, justifies 72% all agricultural expenditure, these are measures that will affect the activities of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, the statutory activities, the implementation of projects involving the European Union, mainly the co-financing of the Rural Development Programme of over PLN 1 billion. From agricultural expenditure in Part 32, which is the second item in the order of importance among the total expenditure on agriculture, will constitute money intended to finance biological progress in animal, vegetable, agricultural and livestock insurance, agricultural schools, boarding schools and educational tasks. As regards expenditure in Part 35, this smallest amount will be used to finance the activities of the Agricultural Market Agency in the field of intervention activities on agricultural markets, the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspections, etc. We know that apart from the budget, agricultural expenditure is planned in voivodeships' budgets, as well as in special reserves of over PLN 2900 million, which can be used to combat infectious animal diseases, to study monitoring of various chemical residues in production, in animal products and in food, as well as in feed, to finance the Veterinary Inspection and, of course, to subsidise agricultural fuel of PLN 860 million, which was increased by PLN 60 million in relation to the previous year. I believe that it is important to recognise the Ministry of Agriculture that, despite such a difficult budgetary situation, the management of the Ministry of Agriculture was able to develop funds to increase subsidies, increase the rate, and in this way we keep our promises to farmers because we stressed the need for such a change during the election campaign. This is a large amount and this is the first step in the right direction. As usual, when we evaluate the budget, the question arises: How does the budget plan, in this case agriculture for 2016, go to the budget for the previous year? As regards the dynamics of budgetary expenditure, the increase is 3%, in Part 35: Agricultural markets. This concerns the increase in expenditure on the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection by 9% and demonstrates the determination of the agricultural department to protect Polish food in terms of quality, in terms of consumer safety. Part expenditure: Agriculture is also planned at a level higher than in 2015 - 2.2% , and above planned inflation, which is planned at 1.7%. And here we have an increase in expenditure on vocational education and care, education, educational care, as well as funding for the Central Centre for Plant Variety Research, for border veterinary inspections, while others remain at a similar level. Rural development expenditure in Part 33 is 5% lower in 2015. They're 95%. amounts from 2015 The objective cause worked here. The restructuring agency will require less funding for co-financing in the course of the negotiations for the Rural Development Programme and in view of the reduction of European resources in the RDPs for the period 2015-2020. Ladies and gentlemen! I have analysed this task budget in detail in this section on agriculture and it must be made clear that real indicators that show the degree of implementation, which are indicators of the level of performance, are positive, are positive. Most of them show an increase compared to the previous year. Despite this detailed analysis, I would also like to stress that there is still a need to increase subsidies for agricultural and livestock insurance. For this purpose, an amount of about PLN 168 million is needed. This would make it possible to cover 4.5 million hectares of agricultural crops with a contribution from the state budget of 65% to the insurance premium in place of the planned 2,9 million ha. This is our intention, this is our goal, and we will, as far as possible, seek and seek the means for these tasks. It is also about increased expenditure on aid for certified seed, for plant protection grants, for equipment, for the maintenance of water melioration facilities. There is also a need to increase resources. Above all, however, there is a lack of funding for new investments in melioration in rural areas, and this is because, although we were assured last year that these funds would be from the Cohesion Fund, it turns out that there is no legal basis for the Cohesion Fund to use funds for this purpose for melioration investments. Therefore, the analysis of the common agricultural policy in the middle of the year gives hope that, as a result of this discussion, the efforts of the Polish Ministry will also be a source of funding for this type of investment. I would simply like to express my appreciation for the management of the agricultural department as a great deal of work, for transparency, clarity of objectives and for thorough, solid preparation of the draft budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u437	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u438	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to say first of all that I regret that the Prime Minister does not participate in the debate, the Minister of Finance does not participate in the debate, the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for Economic Affairs and Development does not participate in the debate, and we are talking about the most important project, the most important law prepared for the whole year, not for the government, but for the Poles, and about how the country is supposed to act and function in the next financial year. Mr. Marshal, you have repeatedly asked the Minister of Finance to come to the court if he wasn't there. I therefore have today a request to your marshal to do what you have repeatedly asked of his ministers and the Prime Minister. However, I am asking because all the votes are valid in this Chamber today, in this debate, from club votes to all the questions of your Members. So the Prime Minister and the Government, with respect to the Vice-Ministers, because we want to talk about the most important law, and it would be worth spending four hours of club time talking to Parliament's representatives if you don't have time to talk to others... [[Here we are.]] I am not talking about your Member, you can sit still, I will not have questions for you, but I will have questions... [[That's too bad.]] ...to the government. [[The Prime Minister has already said hers.]] The Prime Minister said hers and went, Mr Sawicki said well. So I will quote from last year - Mrs Szydło, a speech: You're part of the same action, and it was supposed to be different. [[Self-governments are in debt. You've extended the government.]] Mr Rząsa... Dorance, calm down. Calm the Member down, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u439	Very much so, sir. [[He's hyperactive. ADHD.]] ... Bogdana Rzońca to allow Mrs Skowronska to complete her speech. You're welcome. [[Bravo, Marshal. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u440	So these issues in the 2016 budget, which you present and sign, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, are still valid today. You tried to criticize, you bid high in the election campaign. If someone were to play poker, they'd talk about bluffs, if somebody was playing bridge, they'd say you were bidding for slime without an advantage, and, unfortunately, cards with broochs shown - cards with broochs... [[You guys were the ones that had a gambling problem.]] ...showed, we've discovered right now. You're talking about one thing, the good budget that the Civic Platform government has prepared. Because in this draft budget, what are you changing, what are you talking about, Minister Shamacha? Minister Shamacha spoke about the tax on banks, financial institutions and the tax on large-area shops, great, and the 500+ program. This 500+ program is different because you said: every child, you didn't talk about income criteria then, you didn't say whether it would be for Polish children, for Polish children who went abroad. On this subject until today there is a dispute in the government and we know what is the double vote: Prime Minister Szydło or Minister of Finance or Minister Kowalczyk or Prime Minister Morawiecki. And we don't know, and people don't know it, and consultation is nothing, because we know very well that after consultation you can change everything. And you know that very well... [[You have a very good experience in this. Everything can be changed.]] ...you know that perfectly well. And you were talking about it. In 2016, in addition to the transfer of revenues from emissions, you have another bonus, which the government of the Civic Platform did not have in the previous year - a deposit from the profit of the National Bank of Poland of PLN 3.2 billion. It's your country, but from the bidding... And what else do you have in this budget after the Civic Platform, and today you're bragging about it? The other assumptions that were transferred from the project are salary increases of PLN 2 billion. You spoke so much about freezing wages that this is God's great act for all Poles, because today you are giving these 2 billion. We prepared them, but we were in an excessive deficit procedure. In the crisis, the state reduced wages, reduced pension benefits - in this respect, wages were frozen. We know very well that employees should have increased their wages. We've prepared such a solution. We will prepare and amend the increase in this amount and we hope that you will support PLN 50 million for police officers. Then we'll say, "I'm checking." You were talking about abolishing the fossil tax. There isn't. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'd like to ask Prime Minister Szydło where to close the fossil tax. After all, you promised, after all, you said you had to develop. Where's the liquidation? Maybe we can offer to abolish this tax... [[Oh, there you go.]] ...and you'll be comfortable, we'll do it for you. [[But first, you brought it in.]] The VAT reduction has been repeatedly criticised by the fact that this was raised by one percentage point during the transitional period. You said as soon as possible. You're in 2016 and what? And there is no, there is no VAT reduction by one percentage point. The platform didn't make a mistake because you accepted it, Minister Shamacha, did you? [[Who's up?]] But you have a chance, damn it, Mrs Butterwska. Mr. Marshal, maybe you can back it up if there's a project like this. You had a chance, too... You spoke so much about the fact that we had to introduce clothes because there was a proceeding before the European Court. So? There's no step, there's no step to make sleepovers cheaper. Where are your promises? Where are the Poles? How can they believe you? [[Applause]] We're talking a lot about tax gap. Minister Szalamach himself in the finance committee proposed that we control the collection of taxes, among others. VAT, and he was talking about the tax gap. Somehow in this justification for the draft budget law, Minister, there is no mention of this action programme, which increases compliance with tax rules and improves the efficiency of the tax administration and which was adopted for the period 20142017. This program is... [[Voice from the room: Let's say.]] ...but you didn't say anything today about what wasn't working on this program so you could get that part of what you thought was due to us, too... We would like to get it back, but we have talked many times about the big problem of the tax carousel, the VAT carousel. Thus, in this case it could not be done. What have you changed from the 2015 budget? You have planned, among others. authorising the Minister of Finance to grant loans and loans from the budget on the basis of international agreements to governments and other countries up to PLN 2 billion. It's the same amount, and we hope that in this respect... But we do not know whether this is the money promised to Ukraine in the amount of PLN 500 million or more, because the state supposedly promised PLN 4 billion. I was looking for this 4 billion PLN for Ukraine and I couldn't find it anywhere. [[Voice from the Chamber: National Bank of Poland.]] I'd like the Minister to explain. But you have proposed one change - the possibility of providing support, the possibility of granting a loan to the Bank Guarantee Fund up to PLN 4 billion. In this respect, in the previous year, this item was set at PLN 2 billion. Now she's set at twice as high. So I would like to ask the Minister - because this is a definition in the spending rule of the possibility of spending money - what these phenomena in the financial sector can authorise, and in what case, the granting of loans to the Banking Guarantee Fund. Because this fund in recent years, in the last year or two years, has been exceptionally, perfectly used, because the amount of PLN 5 billion has already been used, except that when PLN 2 billion was paid for failed banks, the banks have contributed to it. Thus, it has been completed. For what purposes for the Banking Guarantee Fund, to support what activities in the sector are you planning this arrangement for the granting of loans? I hope we're serious about this. True, the submission is very late. We really sign up for a serious discussion, only the country bidding for a slime without an asset, which is at a very high level, setting a tax-free amount of 8,000. zł, as the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out, you said you would do it quickly. You said so, and the president filed it. Oh, yeah. Why not? A promise girl, a marshal's freezer, and let people enjoy it. This 8 billion PLN is the cost for the local government. There's no money in this budget. Minister, I would like to ask: How will you introduce money, which is a higher tax-free amount - of course we will support - where will you find money for local governments? You personally claimed the amount of PLN 8 billion where additional commitments were imposed on local governments, where in this regard there were additional costs related to education. Today, when the amendment of the Act on six-year-olds is debated, the amount of cost for local governments, additional, is estimated at PLN 1.5 billion. So where will you find the money? And from this tribune I owe correction, because the statements of Prime Minister Morawiecki today about Poland's loss of PLN 9 billion - that it will be lost money sounded very wrong. This concerns the use of European funds. In fact, we know very well that this is not government action. The beneficiaries are to settle their investments by 31 December, and the time to settle with the European Commission is by the end of the first half of this year. In duly justified cases, the European Commission may extend that period. This was the case in the past when we used the money even before the first financial perspective, in principle the settlement of the project n+2. And nothing's happening. I would like to ask, because we know very well that the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Development, was preparing for a good settlement of money, guarding projects... I am not going to talk about the Podkarpackie project, because I am trying to keep an eye on several such projects so that European funds are not wasted, or at least mobilise local governments to spend money well. I would ask that Prime Minister Morawiecki explain this from this stand and say that he was unfortunately wrong. That money's not gonna go away. We have to settle this money by the end of the year. The beneficiaries, not us. If the beneficiary has an extension of the investment, then yes, there is a risk, but this was not done by the Polish government. And that's how you say and criticize on the side of Law and Justice that only fat cats live perfectly. And who are these fat cats? These fat cats are entrepreneurs who create jobs. It is insulting that you create such an atmosphere for people who try to transfer their capital, take risks, place all their assets for loans, create jobs, and you say that these people live better. [[Palikot made it up. Your man.]] No, Mr Cymanski, you were a banker, too, and you know how many fat cats have loans in banks. From the population, from the natural person to the economic operator. And I'd like... There are no additional mechanisms in this budget law that would talk about the development of the economy. There isn't, and if there are, there's a very small stream that's talking about such a turn-on. Because we need to know that our goods are sold outside and only if they're competitive, someone will buy them. And by the way, as you say about fat cats, I have an irresistible desire to ask: Is the president's cat fat? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Weak. It's weak. It's hopeless.]] [[Voice from the room: This is intelligence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u441	Thank you, Member. And at the same time, I would like to point out that it is very nobilitating and honorable for me that you so often call on me to help. As it turned out - effectively, because the Minister of Finance has arrived. But you have also expressed your doubts about the marshal's freezer, so I inform you that there is no law in the drawers of Marshal Kuchciński - and not only because there are very few of them - which would be tabled by the opposition, and no laws will be suspended. Thank you. [[After New Year's, we'll have a chance to find out.]] Thank you very much, Member. And one more point. You have an amazing ability and ability to stimulate the entire room, so I'm giving it back. [[At least no one's sleeping.]] [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]] Thank you kindly. And please take the floor of Mr Mark Jakubiak, the Kukiz Club15. [[Mr. Marshal is in a better mood right away.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u442	Good morning, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Members... [[...yes, 100 million...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u443	But I will already ask the Member to allow Mr Mark Jakubiak to speak this time. Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u444	Mrs Krystyna. Good morning. [[Good morning, sir. Hello, sir.]] [[Finally, a human conversation.]] In the absence of time - you know, this situation, we are living in a rush - I will not carry out a deeper analysis of GDP, which is to be 3.8%. in 2016 However, the reason for this growth is more interesting. Here I will quote a piece of the bill, just a piece of it: "In a clear growth trend export remains, which is supported by the relatively high competitiveness of Polish companies and by improving the dynamics of activity on the Polish main export markets. This is reflected in the higher dynamics of industrial production - industrial - and investment, in particular in the so-called category. purchases involving machinery and equipment and means of transport. As labour demand increases and unemployment falls, the situation on the labour market is gradually improving. [[Bravo!]] As a result of the growth trend there is private consumption - we are talking about 2014 and 2015, that is practically the past year. Domestic demand plays an increasing role in GDP growth, which since the fourth quarter. 2013 has become a major factor in economic growth. And there's really nothing to pick on. If that is the case, you should enjoy it immensely. But I don't see it in the numbers at all. I do not see this because revenues for 2014 and 2015 are virtually equal, i.e. 283 and 286 billion, and the revenue of the state in 2016 is expected to rise by PLN 27 billion. And it's really interesting. I know that LTE, I know that other... I'll talk about them later. The question is: Why is the value of CIT in the forecast not increasing? There's only 400 million in there. We're talking billions at all, so 400 million is really a symbolic amount. This budget is such a classic example of writing a business plan in which revenue has been overestimated and expenditure has not been estimated. [[That's it.]] And now I would like to tell some Polish industrialists and entrepreneurs, because, in fact, Members and Members, there is a message worth defining at this point. Well, there are tax changes in this budget. These aren't the tax changes we've been waiting for. [[How much more do I have to pay?]] The most important tax changes that will affect the revenue of the state budget in 2016 will be among others.: introduction of a tax on certain financial institutions, introduction of a tax on large-scale shops, change of VAT rules on fuel purchased from passenger cars - it must be remembered that we will only deduct 50%, change in the exemption from registration by means of registering banks. The lower limits of the exemption from registration shall be removed. Changes in the creation and running of factory crèches, that is, good, and kindergartens by employers. These solutions will enable employers, among others. credit to the costs of obtaining revenue for the costs incurred in setting up a nursery. And who's gonna cover the cost of creating this nursery? What else is the basis, what else is the cost. The costs must be borne by the employer, in other words, by the trader. I do not know if these are good hands that would solve the problem of daycare in Poland. However, it seems that the institution of the State should be doing this rather than entrepreneurs. I understand it's only temporary or helpful behavior. But this is not the end of the main attractions that await us, entrepreneurs and Polish industrialists. In fact, it was only these two points that knocked them off their feet and gave them a little horror. The tax revenue stream in 2016 will also be determined by the results of the tasks carried out to increase compliance with tax rules and improve the efficiency of the tax administration. In other words, tax revenues are expected to rise by 7.4%. through tax controls. Otherwise, if it was bad, and it's even better because it's supposed to be worse, bad, it's a sick thesis. Second point. The implementation of measures to increase compliance with tax rules and improve the efficiency of the tax administration will also benefit from the level of VAT revenue. It doesn't seem that way after all. All the manipulations, transfers of funds that my colleagues in Kukiz were talking about today. VAT - is estimated to be 70 billion drain money from the state's cash register, CIT - 10 billion drain from the state purse. After all, this requires simply improving conditions for entrepreneurs. This requires simple tax regulations to prevent fish from swimming in cloudy water. How do we want to improve administrative efficiency? I think it's through the limits. Minister Kapica for the Civic Platform was recorded by one outraged official who then said clearly: an official who does not collect money from control is redundant. Don't we have a repeat of the entertainment? Ladies and gentlemen! There are sections in the budget of the state that grow by themselves and by inspiration from the authorities up to 20% year by year. I do not think we like them, because often as a result of the so-called activities. They send us pictures of non-tax revenue, they put new radars, restrictions around the corner, so that the police can catch. And this is the revenue of twenty-few billion zlotys a year, and it concerns fines, fines, fines from the public, fines and fines imposed by the courts, fines and fines, cartels, etc. There's a 20% dynamic over there. year to year. If you're looking for money, eliminate the funding of political parties... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Oh!]] ...but do not seek, for God's sake, still in the pockets of employers and in the pockets of natural persons, citizens of the Republic. It's money that's hard-earned and it's not worth it, it seems, but it's focused on it. In order to have it, you have to take it away from someone. I don't think that's how it's supposed to be. There is no Prime Minister, and I will address the Minister because I would really like to talk a little bit like the President, Minister. Minister, like the president with the president. Your company, the Polish state, is in a much better position than our companies mainly because you shape the rules on which your company operates. That's what you're gonna do. We, entrepreneurs, have far worse, because the principles of our action are created without us, but about us. I think you need to think of us more often in terms of sympathy and responsibility, also for us. It would be good for you or the Prime Minister, however, to take over Polish entrepreneurship as their protectorate. We don't have vacations, we don't have time to work, we don't have time to get sick, we work pretty hard around the clock and we work over 70%. the national budget. [[Applause]] Isn't that a reason not to make us enemies, just friends? Isn't it supposed to be better than worse? I think it's worth taking care of us. But even a Polish entrepreneur, Minister, has a stamina threshold. Only in 2014, a few hundred of us lost our lives because of helplessness in the face of the soullessness of offices and financial difficulties. It's us entrepreneurs who take it up our necks, often paying with their lives. The solution, I stress, is to begin work immediately on simplifying obscure rules. A whole bunch of tax advisors, lawyers who specialize in tax optimizations, have to get a job somewhere else. [[Applause]] As long as they have an Eldorado here, you won't have any money in the register. Simple taxes are what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, this is not visible in this budget - unfortunately, because I was hoping that entrepreneurship would be one of the pillars on which you would base your budgetary revenue, and it is not. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u445	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. [[Gryglas.]] The flu, yes, of course, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u446	You can change, you can not change. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! Since I have very little time left, I would like to draw your attention Just two lines. The first is an income issue, relatively small in the budget for the proceeds from the sale of shares and shares in the companies of the State Treasury. And I'm not thinking about strategic companies here, I'm thinking about the so-called. the rest, of which the Treasury does not have much from the income side, nor does it have many possibilities to influence these entities, and they cost a lot, because the ownership of these entities is expensive. So the question is, what happens after the Ministry of Treasury has been wound up with all the rest of them where they're gonna go, if there's a plan to dispose of these troublesome scraps. Finally, it is more serious - the cost side, namely the 500+ programme, the flagship, the most important programme of law and justice. Without questioning the merits of supporting Polish families, because this is indeed a very important task, one can have doubts about the effectiveness of this program, whether the money will go to the actual recipient, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. Polish children. As we have calculated, for PLN 2.8 billion you could finance full-value dinners for all Polish children in classes I-VI. The benefits of this would be huge, above all the elimination of the shameful problem of malnutrition of Polish children. There would still be a lot of money left for what you talked about in your election campaign, i.e. the question of going back to Polish dental schools or nurses' offices. It's worth thinking about. We will give this idea to you completely free, because Polish children are important, Polish families are important, not political capital. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u447	Thank you, sir. I ask that the voice of Mr John Klaviter, the non-associated Member, be taken up. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u448	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a few comments by the Right of the Republic to the draft budget law. First of all, we would like to thank you for the 500+ family programme, because we believe that it will partially allow us to get out of this demographic situation that we are currently in, although this is not the only reason, and we ask you to examine any other conditions in this respect, as well as the non-financial situation. We are also concerned about finance related to Polish science. This is a topic that should draw us out, draw our position in Europe and the world. The symbolic increase in funding of Polish science should be further increased, because here it is, I say, the greatest opportunity of our development and whether we will be able to increase effectively spending money on science, will be our place in Europe. Of course, you can talk a lot about spending, and there is a chance, in terms of income, that the revenue that is founded by the government should be realised. You just have to pay attention to two things. My predecessors were talking about it, but maybe some of them weren't really paying attention, so to speak. Of course, the first thing is VAT. After all, we have examples that Slovakia and Spain have managed to cover the subject of VAT to a large extent. Why wouldn't we be able to handle it? There's a very large reserve here, there's a bigger reserve than the government set up in its plans because it's a modest one. But there's a lot of work to be done to seal VAT from this tax. And then it's gonna be a big success for the government. The government could be a second success if it wanted to prepare a policy for foreign companies. Because for now, for today it is that they are under a cloud and that they are not subject to the same control of the Polish companies. Here professionals say that even, let's say, you can't talk about imbalances and asymmetry. I just don't know if he's scared or anything, or if he's afraid to expose himself to political incorrigibility. But here because of the tax optimizations, the transfer of money abroad and, let's just say, the fact that the fiscus doesn't look at these companies, we're losing a lot of money. Of course, this will be much less than VAT, definitely, but the principle of equality between actors requires that they be treated equally. So let the fiscal focus more on foreign companies, when they were already taking advantage of large reductions in their operations in early periods. If this succeeds, we will support the government in implementing these actions. I wish you all the best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u449	Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Arndt, the Civic Platform Club. [[I'm still...]] Excuse me, of course, Mr Jan Szewczak, the Law and Justice Club. Excuse me, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u450	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Domestics, if you're listening to us! As Baron Rothschild used to say, no matter who's in charge, no matter who's making money and debt. Hence, it is often the case that someone else holds office formally and someone else He's really in charge. And that has been largely the case for the last eight years, but not just for the last eight years. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an official website, this side, you can say, as you can see, it is a budget, but there is also this dark side, the other side, that is the management of the debt of the public finance sector. It must be said that in the latter sphere, almost exclusive paternity is one of the spiritual leaders of today's opposition, with the exception of Kukiz, a Kukiz group15. Ladies and gentlemen, this cuckoo egg was left to the new government by the predecessors. This budget isn't brilliant, we all know it. You are very sorry for this 9 billion-dollar deficit increase. But you left the budget with a 50-billion-dollar deficit. It is not enough to calculate these accumulated deficits for the last 8 years, the deficits of eight budgets, they are in the range of PLN 300 billion. That's a long one, too. This has not been done in these eight years by dwarves, nor by Law and Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the opposition doesn't want, at least part of it, to understand that you're on the wagon once and you're under the wagon once. Democrats do not want to accept that they are responsible for the Polish state even when they move to the opposition, that they are responsible for the omissions, for the mistakes made in debt management, in public finances, for the creation of this giant, astronomical debt, which is beginning to be dangerous for all: and for the opposition, and for the rulers, and for Poland, and for Poles. No doubt we'll have to do something about it. But the spiritual fathers of the opposition are also responsible for the damage caused in the property of Poland. It's like Mr. Lewandowski's privatisation, Leszek Balcerowicz. This is ridiculous. These spiritual fathers of the Polish transformation and privatisation sold their national assets for PLN 150 billion, almost all valuable assets and created us nearly PLN 1 trillion of debt, today almost 900 billion, but if we added this 150 billion from OFE, we would already have over PLN 1 trillion of debt. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Modern President, Mr Richard Petru even Mr Gierka, so to speak, has moved. The problem is that Edward Gierek borrowed about $30 billion, built some factories that these spirit neoliberal fathers sold out so quickly, and we paid off 32 years. 32 years we've been paying off this $30 billion with interest. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have this debt okay. Three hundred and thirty billion dollars. How long are we gonna pay this off? It wasn't the people who paid us that debt. So what if the State of the Civic Platform says you've had an economic growth of 24% over the last eight years? ? But you owe the country close to 100% at that time. Out of the amount of 524 billion public debt in 2007 today we have almost 900 billion, and if, as I say, we add OFE, we have 1 trillion zloty of debt. I'm not talking about foreign debt anymore, and this is an absolute, fundamental problem, ladies and gentlemen. 50% our debt is in the hands of foreign entities, 30% is denominated in foreign currencies. Every increase in currency, dollar, euro, yen or Swiss franc must result in a billion-dollar increase in service costs. You are talking about this fantastic period of growth between 2008 and 2013, about how well Minister Rostowski, our outstanding master from London managed. Just look at the increase in the issue of bonds, the issue of foreign bonds, the high cost of public debt service at that time. It was about PLN 40 billion. So practically what the Poles brought in their teeth as a PIT tax was intended to pay only this cost of debt service, the annual cost of foreign debt service. These are hundreds of billions of zlotys that we spent absolutely unproductively. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Poles didn't wake up, it really wasn't enough for the operation of debt, destruction, sale or slavery to succeed. It was really close. Ladies and gentlemen, what is public debt management? This is the choice of a certain path, a certain developmental vision, that is the choice of what we want to finance, where to borrow, how to finance loan needs, who to borrow, under what conditions, what institutions, what deadlines. The problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that too many people get used to it and want to eat these Polish confidures with a ladle, just doesn't want to eat with a spoon, so they get used to it. And well-paid defenders of the old one, you might say, dear Titanic to the iceberg, when it comes to this debt, want it to be like it used to be. And that's not the way it's gonna be, it's definitely gonna have to be changed. The responsibility of the new government in this respect will be enormous and will not be so comfortable, ladies and gentlemen. If, in my opinion, these shameful, stupid, absurd words spoken in this House from this stand about a coup d'état, total destruction, colonization of the economy, Judas, rapists, barbarians in the garden, etc. are fitting in, I think, best suited to the issue of our country's debt. Today this debt has just become dangerous and very, very expensive, and with this the Government of Law and Justice will have to deal with. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Euro MP of the Civic Platform, Prime Minister Kopacz's advisor to the government, Mr Lewandowski, speaks about the seasonal colonization of the Polish economy, and it is through the Law and Justice, which governs 1.5 months. Didn't Minister Lewandowski, the politician of the Civic Platform know that today, in order to conquer the country to colonize it, you don't have to do carpet raids or send armored divisions, you just have to have his debts in your hands, you have to make him dependent on foreign loans, on credits like a drug addict on the next dose? After all, today, after 25 years of our supposedly glowing transformations, after 8 years of the Green Island of the Civic Platform Poland is one of the countries most dependent on the influx of foreign capital in the world. We are at the top of the world when it comes to dependence on foreign loans and loans. The net investment position of Poland, ladies and gentlemen, is quite dramatic. I told you, 50%. debt in foreign hands, and you know what happens when you borrow from strangers. Of course, there are arguments: okay, but we have a debt-to-GDP ratio of only 50%. Whereas Japan is 230, Italy is 140, Greece is 170 and Germany is almost 80%. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, it's true, only Germans, Italians, Japanese have their banks... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...and the Italian or Japanese society has huge, incomparable savings in its banks, these are trillions of euros, yen, dollars. We are poor people when it comes to the wealth of Polish society, we have savings such as the Greeks, they have about 140 or 135 billion dollars, and what drama they are experiencing today. Today, the opposition is threatening us by saying that this is the second Greece. The president of the modern Mr Richard Petru talks about this Greece that the PiS will soon let us go with the bags. Law and Justice rule for a month and a half, but he'll let go of his bags, and his bags will run out. I would like to say, Madame, that the specialists in releasing Poles with bags and socks are Lech Wałęsa and Leszek Balcerowicz, [[Applause]] This is definitely more the way Poles think about it. Not anybody else, ladies and gentlemen, but an outstanding artist from London, a magician from creative accounting Mr. Jan Vincent-Rostowski... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] ...manipulated first at the prudential thresholds and changed the method of counting debts. He counted so much that there's less, and there's more. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] He was indebted to the National Road Fund, he was already violating the prudential principle, he jumped the OFE, he was a record holder when it came to the scale of the issue of treasury securities. I've chosen some examples, it's really Byzantine style and express tempo. In 2012, it issued bonds in foreign currency for EUR 9 billion and, what the hell, a rich country. In April 2013, he issued bonds of the State Treasury for PLN 10 billion, but he did not last long, because in October 2013 he broke the record, he owed us another PLN 12 billion to add 8 billion to this debt on 6 November. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way it's gonna work, Mr. Komorowski's advice is not gonna help here - change jobs and take credit. They're not gonna help. Although Donald Tusk took advantage of it - he changed his job, I don't know if he took credit. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not that these movements, these measures in the field of public debt, foreign debt, are impunity, but it is not possible to make a responsible government that has been dealing with these cuckoo eggs for the past 1.5 months. You dropped it off, and now we have to sit it out. And you say it's the new power's fault. Well, it's not, ladies and gentlemen. So far it's been easy to borrow, because they've been printing for three shifts this hot money, the interest rates have been negative, and it's possible to borrow it perfectly. The Greeks have been borrowing, even borrowing, only on other conditions. If the Greeks didn't have bills to pay, then the Germans. They said, "Give us back the warm islands." I look at you so nicely, and that's why I'm talking to you. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Except I didn't print.]] The Germans said to the Greeks, "Give back these warm islands." Except we don't have a lot of warm islands, and that's the problem, ladies and gentlemen, that's the problem. [[Voice from the room: Madagascar.]] Madagascar's a good idea, yeah. Why were we so eager to be loaned? Are you sure it's that we're so loved by this international usury and banking? That they love us so much? No, ladies and gentlemen, we've been loaned relatively easily and borrowing, wanting to borrow, because we've just been treated for years like a cash cow, a real eldorado. Profits from Polish bonds are record-breaking, at some moments it was 12% We've been hitting everyone on the head. Counting since 1990 this growth in GDP, because of which the Platform is so puffy here, is about five times - the increase in this GDP - but the increase in debt in this period is eleven times. Ladies and gentlemen, 11 times. And if you looked at the increase in debt of these supposedly brilliantly managed, stable, teflon banks, you would see, and I would like to tell you that since 1995 their debt in Poland has increased from PLN 4.5 billion to nearly PLN 180 billion. That's tens of billions, that's 40%. or more, it's hard to count. Ladies and gentlemen, the debt has to do with the fact that misuse becomes dangerous, and it can become even lethal. We have a flexible credit line today. First we got ourselves, or actually Minister Rostowski, the 30 billion, and now this has been reduced to 20 billion. We pay between 150 and 300 billion to operate this line, depending on what the course looks like. etc. We didn't take advantage of it. [[Voice from the hall: Million!]] Yeah, yeah, millions, of course. But there's been a lot going on over those pretty years, especially for eight years of government, the Platform has been a little tight. And the question is whether it was necessary, whether these expenses would not be more meaningful if it was invested in Polish children. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to say this: this will all have to be changed. That's really gonna have to change. We will have to domesticate the Polish debt. Polish debt will have to be restored. Banks in Poland will have to be recolonized. We're gonna have to stop this loan slavery, or we're not gonna get anywhere, we're gonna crash into somebody. [[Applause]] Iceberg. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. [[Voice from the room: How?]] The time will come, my fellow Member, and to tell you how to do it. We'll talk about it. We'll try to talk about it. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: We are very happy for you.]] ...there may be a significant change in interest rate rates that could be a rupture of some kind of bond bubble, some kind of imbalance in China or elsewhere. This will affect the different indicators, as well as the budgetary indicators, of course. And there's not much we can do about it. Ladies and gentlemen, the world is waiting for an increase in risk and financial volatility, which will also affect the value of the Polish gold, but the state must have a budget and it is necessary to say that this budget will match today's realities. To conclude, I wanted to address the Member of the Civic Platform of Isabella Leszczyna, who spoke about Janosik. Yeah, I was gonna say yes. It accused the Law and Justice that we were such a Janosik, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that you are Janosik too, except you are Janosik the other way around. You took away the poor and gave to the rich, and yet you owed us. [[Applause]] This will have to be changed, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that instead of dumb, barren, often rude, aggressive porridges, you will present meaningful examples. I share some of the comments made by my previous speaker, Mr Jakubiak. I believe that much more will have to be done in the work of facilitating, making sense, making business activities real. They should also bring money, and this money will be best used if we invest it in Polish families and in Polish children. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u451	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Arndt, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u452	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Mr Szewczak spoke a lot about public debt, about the debt that took the Civic Platform during eight years of government. However, Mr President, these were governments in a period of deep crisis. The crisis has passed, the helm has taken over Law and Justice. And you in one year owe the country more than we have in any year of the eight years that you have spoken of. [[Speech outside the microphone, applause]] Maybe we had bad luck. Besides, Mr Silchoń will tell you more about the debt. I'd like some other matter. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Law and Justice has prepared a draft budget for 2016 as a virtual project, a virtual project, because a large part of the expenditure and a large part of the revenue are not based on the rules in force. The project was submitted very late, in the second half of December. In fact, in the last 25 years, there hasn't been a case where the budget has been submitted so late. I am aware that this is a special period, a breakthrough, a change of power, but after all there has been a relatively frequent change of power in Poland and, however, the previous governments were able to submit a budget earlier. We hoped that as this budget is being submitted so late, he would indeed be well prepared that there would be draft laws that would allow this budget to be programmed and presented rationally. Member of the Commission, Prof. Żyżyński said that the budget is as prepared as by this proverbial tailor, who as countries as hard as his matter gets. I have the impression that this budget was prepared in reverse, that is, first prepared. a list of expenditures that included all these proposals from the election period, and then the revenue was adjusted, and money was sought to finance all these electoral promises. [[It doesn't matter what the first, the second, but it is. Is it?]] Of course it doesn't matter what the first and the second, but today it turns out that neither income nor expenses go to the end. We are still waiting for laws that will clearly determine what revenue we will have, what expenses we will have. As far as expenditure is concerned, this has already been mentioned many times today - we do not know exactly what the 500+ family programme will look like when it is introduced, who it will actually cover, what revenue it will generate. We don't know what the tax-free amount will look like. It wasn't Mr. Marshal who put the project in the freezer. This project lies in the freezer with the chairman of the Committee on Public Finances. The first reading of the bill was done and the project disappeared. He went to the Committee on Public Finance, and the Committee on Public Finance deals with a lot of things, but not this particular project. Again, we do not know, since it will be in force, what this amount will actually be, what the situation will be after the implementation of this law. And so you can calculate the next, the next laws. What about pensions - it is not known at all, the question of paying for medicines for people over 75 years of age - is unknown. As far as expenses are concerned, the case is exactly the same, which means we've got additional tax projects again. I'm talking about bank taxes or financial institutions. The situation is that, although the project is already after second reading, we do not know exactly what it will look like. A number of amendments have been tabled and the actual revenue from this tax to the budget is unknown. I don't even want to talk about the big-store tax because it's an unprepared matter at all, and we don't know anything about it. As we look at the expenditure and revenue of the state budget, it is actually only those planned by the previous government and actually ninety-seven percent of the revenue and expenditure this government has prescribed from the budget prepared in September by the previous government. As we will look at, for example, the expenditure of the state budget according to sections, on 31 sections listed in the budget of the state, 30 departments have exactly or almost exactly the same expenditure as planned by the previous government - the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, only in one section is there a significant difference. This is heading 852: Social assistance and here the difference is significant, because we know, previously there was about 13.5 billion, now there is almost 29 billion zlotys, because these are your flagship promises, which we do not even know from what they will be covered. As far as income is concerned, the situation is similar, i.e. In fact, if we look at tax revenues, they are exactly the same as the Civic Platform government has planned. Even if we look at this already famous tax on goods and services, VAT, it is at the same level as the Civic Platform government has planned. All other taxes, including the tax on the extraction of some of the fossils that you spoke about at the election campaign stage, will be eliminated - for the gold, there is exactly the same amount. The difference is indeed with the tax on financial institutions and the tax on large-scale shops, but again we do not know how the revenues from these titles will look. Ladies and gentlemen, time is running fast. Many more of my colleagues would like to speak. I was about to say a few sentences about the so-called. sacred cows, that is, those institutions that prepare budgets themselves. One of the previous speakers mentioned this a little bit today, but I think we'll leave it for discussion while working in the Public Finance Committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u453	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u454	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I don't have much time left. I have the honour and pleasure to present on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15 an opinion on expenditure in this budget for the broader social policy. I will not get divorced and talk about what the general budget looks like in this area, because it would be possible, that is, the common budget of the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice, as we see each other here. There's only so much to say that it looks like this: a flood after us. I would like to say to you that we have expected that before we adopt the budget, we will learn about good reforms, particularly in the area of social policy, whose budget has doubled, as you can see in the proposed proposals, but unfortunately they have not been proposed in any way, and the effectiveness of these expenditures is really none. Let me just give you a few examples of inefficient spending. I will start with one: a special fund, a Labour Fund, a fund of famous labour offices - over 12 billion a year. This is 12 billion a year, and of this - attention - only 4 billion are really going to activate the unemployed. The rest for the army is 46,000. officials who are inefficient are engaged in professional activation and restoring people to the labour market. On the other hand, NIKI, who controlled these labour offices, said that they did not measure their effects at all. They measure maybe only in such a way that they do so three months after receiving support, wondering if the unemployed person is returning to the registers. This is not an effect, but in this case the Supreme Audit Office said that this effect, even measured, is 20%. 20% of the 2 million unemployed on average is only 300,000. persons who have not returned to the labour records for a year. 40,000, ladies and gentlemen, simplistically, it costs to activate an unemployed person. Whether it's cheap or expensive, let's answer that question. In this case, the government should undertake a thorough reform. Our proposal was already in the process of building the Kukiz15 strategy so that we could commission activation and placement services for specialised agencies and companies, because this is what we do across Europe. It is the cheapest form and the most effective. We will launch competition in this area, and it will really be the methods that are proposed by other countries and which are effectively applied. The next hole, the next inefficient expenditure, ladies and gentlemen, involves social assistance. Helping the family, the Polish family in the crisis is necessary, because these families are actually a lot, while at this point social assistance looks like it's just a big administrative monster, which in no way helps the family, which is in trouble, get out of the crisis. He pays all kinds of benefits that confirm the helplessness of this family. We have a very large increase here, 28 billion for social assistance. Of course, this is dictated by a proposal of 500 PLN per child, an increase of over 16 billion. Nowhere in the budget is it possible to see whether the service associated with the payment of this benefit will increase relatively by the same amount. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If so, congratulations. Not to mention ZUS - 4 billion administration expenditures, PFRON - 346 offices across the country that deal with various benefits for people with disabilities, where a disabled person does not know where to really go to deal with various matters, because in one office he settles this and in the other he settles that. A double way of judging disability grades. 150 million PLN spent and in ZUS, and in various other resorts, so that we can find out who is actually a disabled person, because this is needed - in various offices of various certificates - so that we can find out where this disabled person can get help.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u455	Member, your club time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u456	Thank you so much and I'm sorry. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u457	I now ask the floor of Mr Jacek Sasin, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u458	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the task of presenting the position of the Law and Justice Club in relation to those parts of the proposed draft state budget for 2016, which concern public administration and national defence. I'll start with the first part and start with a few things of a general nature. The majority of public administration expenditure is related to the functioning of government administrations. These expenses in my and my club's belief cannot only be linked to the maintenance of the existing status quo. The task of public administration is to act as a servant to citizens, to listen to their problems, to try to solve them. Administration needs to change in order to serve citizens better. Professional and apolitical officials should be trained to understand the idea of serving citizens, but they will also be aware of the responsibility involved. Unfortunately, we have to say that there has been a significant increase in public administration over the last eight years, an increase which is not always in line with the need to carry out more tasks, and also with this increase in administrative stubbornness. Examples that, even today in this Chamber, were discussed in the course of a draft law amending the Civil Service Act, have proved this too, and all Poles have been able to see how the public administration works, as well as the promotions, recorded in the law mechanisms in the public administration, learn from the wiretap published by the media, including, above all, wiretapping conversations between the President of the Supreme Auditorium and the then head of the club of the Polish People's Party. It is not surprising, therefore, that there is a sharp increase in administrative expenditure that we have seen in recent years. In 2012, the budget expenditure for this purpose was just over PLN 12 billion, in 2013 already 12 197 million, in the following years these values also increased. In this budget, inherited by the government present after the government of the Civic Platform, these expenses are planned at the level of over PLN 13 billion. This increase in expenditure on public administration has increased avalanchely and this is what the percentages show best. In 2014 compared to the previous year, this was an increase of less than 1.5%. , by 2,25% in the following year, and in the current budget it is already an increase of 4,45%. I am convinced that this growth trend will be slowed down in the coming years, especially as this growth has been taking place despite the fact that wages in the budgetary sphere, as we know, have not increased since 2008 and have been frozen. It is pleased that the government in this budget has written down the possibility of budget increases. The announcements by the government regarding the restoration of the real dimension of the idea of professional, apolitical officials - this is what these additional funds will be used for. These over 13 billion zlotys, which have been saved for public administration tasks, are money that should be used efficiently, but not effectively for administration, only for the state and citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! To discuss the figures, it should be noted that these measures are planned both in Part 17 of the State budget: Public administration and in section: Public administration in other parts of the budget. Within the budget, these expenditures were planned at 49 007 000. PLN, within the heading: Public administration is 13 218 981 thousand. zł. The funds planned in part 17 of the budget are not only funds dedicated directly to public administration, but also to public security, fire protection, as well as the National Bureau of Information and Search for the Polish Red Cross and the Department of Health Protection, dedicated to the System of Support for the Command of State Medical Rescue. As far as the remaining amount of over PLN 13 billion is concerned, the administration, the largest items concern the budget, public finances and financial institutions, i.e. 6368 million PLN, there are still foreign cases - 1692 million PLN and voivodship budgets - 1 323 827 thousand. zł. With regard to national defence expenditure - here let me develop a little more my speech - the expenditure was planned for 2016 in the amount of 35 898 740 thousand. zł. That's 2%. the expected implementation of the gross domestic product of 2015, i.e. those assumptions are in line with the regulation in Article. Paragraph 7 1 Act of 25 May 2001 on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the implementation of defence expenditure, I do not think it is necessary to convince anyone that this is a key issue concerning our national security, especially in the times in which we live. The Government of Law and Justice took over the government after many years of neglecting the Armed Forces by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL. That's what the numbers say. Well, in theory, for many years, there has been a rule that the Armed Forces should have a minimum of 1.95%. GDP. And what did it really look like? Of course, such sums have been written down in the draft budget, and since 2008 these amounts have never been fully used up. 2007 was the last year - 2007 in which, I will remind you, the Law and Justice - in which defence expenditure was higher than anticipated 1,95% GDP. At that time this amount was PLN 20 670 million, and the actual expenditure exceeded PLN 21 billion and was higher by PLN 430 million than the statutory minimum which was in force at that time. Since 2008, this has been a breakdown of resources for the Armed Forces. In 2008, there is a time when, of course, this use is lowest: PLN 3190 million - then the expenditure was lower than that provided for by law. In the following years, these were different sums. A second such value, 2013, almost 2.5 billion less than it was due to budget assumptions or the budget adopted for this year. In other years it was from less than a billion to almost 2 billion PLN less than the budget. In total, by 2014 over PLN 11 billion was not used from this money, which should go to finance the Armed Forces. Also this year, which passes, the new government, the Government of Law and Justice was forced to ask the High House to reduce these funds in the budget by more than PLN 200 million because the previous government did not implement the measures that would allow spending this money as intended. Ladies and gentlemen, PLN 11 billion is a powerful sum that could have made our Armed Forces in much better shape than they are today, a sum that would allow us to acquire dozens of new helicopters or dozens of Patriot anti-missile kits, which - I do not need to convince anyone - would significantly increase our safety. Instead, we were founded with the story that Poland is safe because it is a member of the North Atlantic Pact, and we are in no danger, because, next to us, it is peacefully oriented and indistinguishable on any of its neighbours Russia, which, while maintaining good relations, can guarantee our security. Well, ladies and gentlemen, as it turns out, both of these claims are not entirely true. The latter is completely untrue. The first one has its limitations, too. Well, it's Art. In fact, 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty says that, in the event of an assault on one of the parties, this is an assault on everyone, but at the same time this Treaty also says - I will quote - that each party will provide assistance to such a party or parties assaulted, taking immediate, independent and in agreement with other parties, the actions it considers necessary, including the use of armed forces. So, as we can see, these may also be other activities, not only armed ones, they may also be resolutions, calls for the cessation of aggression and all other arsenals of action that may be taken in this situation. Therefore, only our Armed Forces, financed, upgraded, modern, are able to ensure our safety. It must be pleased that such a view is reflected in this draft budget, including the draft budget, which provides for measures, as I said, for the Armed Forces at 2% GDP. Once again, I will remind you of this sum: 35 898 740 thousand. zł, including in part: National defence this amount is 35 453 215 thousand. zł. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this money, huge money, big money on a budget scale? Well, maybe I'll start with that, from a comparison with the previous year again, with 2015. This budget of 2015 following the amendment of the amendment, which the Government of Law and Justice was forced to make, was worth PLN 37 881 million, but in these funds was the payment of vouchers for the implementation of the Polish Armed Forces programme with multi-tasking aircraft, the last tranche of payment for F-16 aircraft - that was over PLN 5363 million. If we subtract this money, the real expenditure on the military amounted to PLN 32.5 billion, i.e. we see that this year's funds for the Armed Forces are almost 3 billion, exactly 2935 million higher. This is a very serious jump, because by 8,28%. The structure of these expenditures is also very, very interesting. Namely what, I think, we should all be most interested in, which is not the current expenses, which is what we call colloquially overeating money... It's a necessary expense, too, because the army needs to be maintained. After all, this includes various types of expenditure, such as pension benefits for former soldiers, such as wage issues, although this is something that I will also talk about in a moment, because our army also requires quantitative expansion, and other such expenditures. But as far as salaries, personal expenses, salaries and salaries are concerned, this is where I'd like to stay for a while. This, ladies and gentlemen, is over PLN 8 billion, quite a large part of the projected budget - PLN 8281.5 million. Within this amount there will be some expansion of the Armed Forces, perhaps not yet as we would expect, because it will really be an additional 1500 soldiers who will be dedicated to protecting our eastern border, because this is today the border which is the most threatened by possible external aggression, and regardless of that will be formed three new territorial defence brigades, but it is already within the existing Armed Forces. But what is also important, within the framework of these measures, will be raised the salaries of soldiers, because it is also, I think, an important element of strengthening the Armed Forces. This increase will be higher than expected in the original draft budget, the one submitted by the previous government. There, 169 zlotys per soldier are foreseen, including the new budget, this increase is significantly higher and will amount to 202 zlotys, and in addition, as part of the transfer of other funds within the existing budget of the Ministry of Defence, there will be additional money and in total this increase will amount to 237 zlotys on average for the professional soldier. Ladies and gentlemen! But I think we're all most interested in the expenses that will make our army more modern. And more capable of self-defense in our territory. These pro-development expenditures, also compared to those incurred in the previous year, look as follows. The purchase of materials, that is mainly the purchase of ammunition, of what the army cannot function without, is PLN 1813.5 million, an increase of 6% compared to the previous year. Construction investments are also kind of an increase... I'm sorry. I'm so sorry. I took a wrong look. I have to do it again. The data I mentioned earlier concerned construction investments. Purchasing materials is an increase of 15%. On the other hand, what is most important in this budget, i.e. measures for technical modernisation, these measures are foreseen at 9 365 796 000. zł and this is the biggest increase in expenditure under this budget, because by more than 20%. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! This is the first time that we have a chance as a country to bring about a real increase in resources for technical modernisation. So far, as I said before, these measures have never been fully used. In addition, it is important that these measures, almost PLN 9.5 billion, are measures that will also serve to strengthen the Polish economy. The first manifestations of such a thought about the modernization of the Polish Armed Forces in the performance of the Ministry of National Defence under the new direction we already have. Well, no earlier than yesterday, a contract was concluded for the renovation and modernisation of Leopard tanks, in total this contract amounts to PLN 2.4 billion distributed until 2020. Next year, 650 million PLN will be issued under this contract. All this money will be left in Poland, in Polish companies - 2/3 will go to Gliwice and 1/3 will go to WZMot in Poznań. This is a new thought which will cause us to benefit double on this defence budget: on the one hand strengthening our Armed Forces, on the other hand leaving money in the Polish economy, and they will serve the development of Polish enterprises. [[Applause]] [[That's it.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, it is important to mention property expenditure, which is also a very serious component within this budget, namely expenditure of 10 247 302 000. zł. This is also an increase compared to last year, that will be 28.7% this year. In the previous year it was 25.4%. To conclude, I would like to stress that this national defence budget really gives us the chance that in 2016 it will begin to be real, and not only in the declarations made by the ruling party so far, the real strengthening and modernisation of the Polish Armed Forces, which will ensure security for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u459	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Silchoń, Civic Platform, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u460	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A few words about debt. I'm gonna start by saying that operating with absolute numbers is really demagogy. Economists used to talk about public debt in relation to GDP, and let's try to stick to that. These absolute figures are of course impressive, but as we look at the increase in debt in relation to GDP, in these difficult, crisis times in Poland the debt grew by 12%. , while on average in the European Union slightly over 28%. And only Estonia, Sweden and, if I remember correctly, Bulgaria had a debt increase lower than us. However, it is also worth repeating that less than 50% is the ratio of public debt to GDP, and the European average is about 80%. In my opinion, you are causing problems when it comes to debt handling costs and, what I fear even more, the possibility of refinancing it, because today's achievements - there is a tax rule and its amendment, an amendment, but also a very tight budget, and also a tax on financial institutions - they really raise serious concerns about maintaining liquidity in the treasury securities market, as a result of the liquidity disruption of the state budget. I have to say that it would be worth asking for a little deeper reflection and looking at how we managed this debt in such a way for a good cause, and in a few things at least it would be worth continuing some activities rather than cutting them off. Let me give you an example: this is a question of consolidating the liquidity management of the public finance sector, which we have consistently implemented, and it is not anyone else but Prime Minister Rostowski who has implemented this strategy. This consolidation, including the obligation to place free funds on the accounts of the Minister of Finance initially of the National Health Fund, the National Environmental Fund, then also joint management, a unified system for the management of monetary funds, finally the collection of guarantee reserves, but then also the extension of the obligation to locate from January 2015 to state cultural institutions, the Polish Academy of Sciences, government SPOZs, voivodship environmental funds and judicial deposit. It is worth noting that these banal movements would, at first glance, have reduced loan needs by 39 billion PLN and that public debt through these actions in several years would have been 32 billion. The question is whether this consolidation is worth continuing. It's probably worth it. There's still a lot to do, but whose interests are you defending, who will suffer from this consolidation? This is a question for PiS Members, especially Mr Szewczak. State Forests are an example of this entity, which could be successfully consolidated. On the other hand, with regard to the structure of national debt as regards treasury securities, it is worth noting that the banking sector is systematically increasing its share and, as a result of, for example, pension reforms, redemptions have also changed its structure, but from June 2013 to June 2015 this banking sector was dominated by buyers. In fact, he replaced foreign investors and OFE, while the involvement of the banking sector in treasury securities increased from PLN 74 billion to PLN 166 billion. 32.1% - that was the bank's share in the middle of the year. This was to some extent due to the overliquidity of these banks and the strong tendency to enter this market, but today, fortunately, you have withdrawn from the tax system as far as banks are concerned, because it is a brilliant idea, Minister, to tax your own debt. Really brilliant. Fortunately, for example, when it comes to another very important player in this market, insurance companies, you didn't do it, and I can say that when it comes to their share, it's actually about 20%. One third of the assets, as regards insurance corporations, are located in treasury securities. The question is whether it is worth doing so, because in fact the attractiveness of these sectoral securities for these entities is definitely decreasing. This may generally involve, unfortunately, problems, and it is very serious, the disposal of treasury securities, and let me just remind you that the loan needs mentioned by the Minister are net lending needs. In fact, gross needs are much greater, several times greater. You want to sell 130 billion on the domestic market, an additional 30 billion more. The situation is similar in the market for foreign securities. Plus, there's the National Road Fund. If you are really scaring these financial institutions, and you are not looking after the image of Poland too, it will not only get revenge on costs - costs will increase in later periods - because it may happen to us, I would not want to, I do not wish anyone that we will have a problem with the current liquidity of the state budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u461	Thank you very much. Maria Zuba, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u462	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to dedicate the information to Mr Neumann, who with such sarcasm refers to the draft laws made by Members of the Law and Justice. I would like to inform him that during the 2007-2011 period, the government reported only 14 projects, the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL on 4701 projects developed by the Sejm. So only 14 were... [[That's not true, that's not true!]] ...set the projects agreed. Also in years... Member of the Commission, please look at the archives that we have on the sejm pages. [[Well, take a look.]] ...in 2011 and 2015 the total number of projects is 1405, while only 144 are government. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think you should have any comments on us. Mr Cichoń, on the other hand, says that the debt must be calculated as a percentage of gross domestic product. Only, Mr President, Poles will be paying off zlotys, not percentages, so they need to know what the situation in our country is and what the state of public finances is. Ladies and gentlemen, in this room on 22 December this year. there has been a debate on health protection. In the discussions held, Members of all parliamentary clubs confirmed in their speeches that the health system currently in operation was required to change the public's expectations. In all OECD countries, except Greece, the United States and Poland, there is universal access to health services. However, they cannot understand our Members and I must say that I also find it difficult to understand why most of the questions in this debate were asked by Members who really did not have the opportunity to make changes in the health system for very long time, and in their questions they included guidelines on how to make changes, and they discussed the need for rapid changes. All these comments were made in particular by those who had ruled the country for eight years. They promised to change, but they didn't make changes. Unfortunately, their promises were empty. And well, according to art. 68 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland each has the right to health protection - but we know the current reality and we know that the functioning health protection system built by the Civic Platform and PSL is one of the worst health systems in a group of highly developed European countries. [[Then fix it.]] This is from reports submitted by independent corporations. What guarantees us now the system that we inherited from the Civic Platform and the PSL? Long-term dates, often a few years, visits to specialist doctors, export of drugs abroad, and then... [[Is it gonna get better?]] ...unlawful trade in them in the country for dishonest profits... [[The D.A.'s office.]] ...not enough specialist doctors, starving pay for nurses... [[There'll be more.]] ... working on heavily reduced jobs and pushing them out for self-employment, self-employment. In OECD countries, a thousand... [[OECD: o-e-si-di.]] ...there are 47 nurses, which results from research carried out by foreign companies, in Poland there are only 36. As you can see, in the current system, there is a long list of shortcomings and irregularities indicating the need for a thorough overhaul of the system, but it takes time for in-depth reforms to be carried out. Reforms will be necessary, the liquidation of the NFZ and the change in the organisation of access to health benefits and the change in the organisation of the payer, but it will be possible not earlier than 2018. Today, on the other hand, we are starting work on the 2016 state budget. We start them when Poland inherited from the Civic Platform and PSL spends 6.4% on health protection gross domestic product, of which only 4,8% is public money. However, in OECD countries health expenditure is on average 8.9% gross domestic product. [[You can do this.]] [[A premium increase.]] Poland, taking into account this criterion, occupies 44 countries in 36th place. In the 2016 budget, the government proposes to spend PLN 7188 million on health protection. That's 0.6%. more than expected to be implemented in this respect in the current year. [[A lot of it.]] Of this amount, the government almost 53% allocates to grants and subsidies. In the 2016 draft Budget Act, Prime Minister Beata Szydło's government has made a number of significant changes and has included financial resources for tasks that can already be implemented next year without waiting for reform. The government took into account what Prime Minister Szydło had announced in his programme during the campaign. In response to the expectations of pensioners, people who were 75 years old, the government provided the budget for the next year with funding for free medicines. In our country, the view of a pensioner leaving the pharmacy from an unbuilt prescription box, because he lacks money, is a common phenomenon. Unfortunately, although this phenomenon in society has long been noticed and defined, the previous government has not taken any action to eliminate it, but the constitution in the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 guarantees citizens that regardless of their material situation, public authorities ensure equal access to public-funded healthcare services. Prime Minister Szydło's government, by buying medicines for people aged 75 years, seeks to remove the phenomenon of restricting older people's access to treatment only because their pensions are too low and are not sufficient for them to buy medicines. In recent years, we've changed our way of life a lot. We sit in front of the TV, the computer too long, we lack movement, we eat badly and this applies to both adults and children. As a result, we are threatened by obesity as a society. Thus, according to the Health Act, under the National Health Programme, the government has adopted a new task: the obesity prevention programme. For several years we have seen a shortage of specialist doctors in our country. There are several reasons for this situation. For 2016 to reverse this trend, the government has planned measures to be used by all medical university graduates, i.e. around 3.5 thousand. persons. The Minister of Health will decide on the allocation of places for specialized training. [[Jesus Christ, are there many more pages?]] In order to discuss all the financing of health care, we need to analyse measures including the NFZ's financial plan. The funds that are planned in the budget, and those that are in the financial plan... In favour of next year more than PLN 3.46 billion than in the current year speaks. Despite this growth, however, this does not change the picture of access to healthcare. In the financial plan for 2016, the Minister of Health planned to carry out medical services for a total amount of 73 292 million, of which he would like to spend PLN 9402 million for basic care, while for hospital treatment 29 863 million PLN. A detailed analysis of the budget and health expenditure will be carried out in time... [[Work.]] ...the work of the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Health. Due to the limited time and two more colleagues want to speak, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[23 more minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u463	Thank you very much. Mr Bartosz Arłukowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u464	I was very attentive, Mr Marshal, and I listened to your speech. I'd like to explain a few things. It'll be easier to say. [[That's your skill right there.]] Mr. Marshal, we're debating the budget today... [[Not words, actions.]] ...we'll talk about the financials in 2016. Government announcements are drugs for free for 75+ people, we already know that not for everyone, not all drugs, no one knows what drugs, no one knows when these drugs. [[And for who.]] It was supposed to be a solution to the NFZ, its liquidation, we already know that it will not be, the contract was extended until 2017. We'll start talking about this in 2018. There were supposed to be increases for nurses, there wouldn't be, if it weren't for measures secured by the Platform government, other means for these purposes we don't see. But three things in the health system have already been done by the government. Two loud, one quietly. Loudly said no more in vitro. With regard to health policy programmes planned by the government, the government said hard: no more in vitro funding in Poland. The first in vitro conceived patient was born in 1978. In 1987 - the first in Poland. In 2010, the world awarded the Nobel Prize to Dr. Edwards in vitro creators. In 2013, 4300 children are born in Poland. The PiS government closes this program in 2016. And these are hard facts, which you've already done. What else have you done? Surely, the first reimbursement list that the government authorized and prepared caused the prices of transplant drugs to rise dramatically. [[Applause]] In order not to be literal and not to be accused of having a political and not substantive debate here, I will read to you only three sentences, which he wrote in a letter to the Minister of Health, Professor Grend, the outstanding authority of child nephrology. I quote: I was informed about the reimbursement changes hindering children's access after transplants to the drug - and here's its name. This is worrying and, from a medical point of view, in the best interests of these patients should be reversed as soon as possible. Giving what will force the financial situation, which has never been investigated in this age group of the next remodeling medicine for children after transplantation, maintained long-term without steroids - attention, quote - is subject to a significant risk of causing rejection. With respect, Professor Dr. Hab. Richard Grend's medical science. You're gonna argue with him, too? You're already discussing with WHO that in vitro is not a treatment method, you're discussing with WHO that infertility is not a disease, maybe you and the professor will discuss that everything is okay. The drugs you've put in place today are drugs that are not sufficiently tested in children. But I made a little effort today. My office checked where this medicine, which you are proposing today to these patients after the transplant, is available: in Świnoujście, in Szczecin, in Cracow, in Rzeszów, in Gdansk, in Łomża, in Lublin, in Koszalin, in Wrocław - there is nowhere this medicine. This medicine is a medicine that has been in force since 1 January. These are facts. But maybe there is nothing strange about it, because if the PiS government receives a vote on 18 November and the 21st Minister of Health is already taking part in the international papal conference in Vatican, the Deputy Minister takes part in a conference sponsored by pharmaceutical companies and the Minister explains that he has an obligation to these people, then maybe that explains the phenomena I am talking about. And the third thing the government did quietly and secretly was to change the rules of cooperation with the Zielona Góra Agreement. The incentive funding system for doctors was completely abolished, so heavily negotiated during the strike, increased rates for all, the need to inform about the studies carried out, the permission to close the offices and the funding increased. Yeah, that worked. And in order to end this statement with some kind of anecdote, I would like to tell you that the Ministry of Health has eliminated an in vitro tab on its website at all. But there's still a page that maybe the minister doesn't know about: www.invitro. gov.pl. They haven't found this page yet, but we know that the number of children born is no longer updated there. Therefore, I have this proposal, ending this speech: let's read the web pages about in vitro, they disappear so quickly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u465	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblet, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u466	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Subventions and grants to local government units are an important part of State budget expenditure. The general subsidy for local government units is planned in the 2016 budget of PLN 53 043 million. These expenditures represent 14.4% State budget expenditure, so it is that's a very high budget line. The increase in this subsidy compared to the subsidy planned for 2015 amounts to 3,3%. This is good information for local governments, because it is almost twice the planned level of inflation. The largest part of the general subsidy is the educational part, which is planned for 2016 at 41 496 952 thousand. PLN and is higher than the amount of the educational subsidy planned for the current year by PLN 1120 million, that is 2,8%. The amount of this subsidy for 2016 took into account the financial implications of the change in the educational tasks of the JST related to the continuation of the training of 6-year-olds in the 2015/2016 school year, while taking into account the planned change in the increase in the age of compulsory education up to 7 years from September 2016. In the same dimension, the special reserve for increasing the availability of pre-school education has been increased. The compensatory part of the general subsidy for municipalities is planned for 2016 at PLN 6533 million, and this is an increase in relation to the 2015 subsidies by 5.6%. The compensatory part of the general subsidy for powiats planned for 2016 in the amount of PLN 1714 million is 8.4% higher than planned for 2015. The compensatory part of the general subsidy for voivodships was planned in the amount of PLN 973 million and is about 2,5% higher than the planned amount for 2015. The balancing part of the general subsidy for municipalities was planned at 531 403 thousand, i.e. 4% higher than in 2015. The balancing part of the general subsidy for powiats was planned to amount to PLN 1123 million, i.e. by 5.8% more than planned for the current year. The regional part of the general subsidy for voivodships was planned in the amount of nearly PLN 318 million, i.e. about 2% more than for 2015. The compensatory part of the general subsidy for municipalities was planned in the amount of PLN 17 million, i.e. 24% higher than for 2015. Part 82 of the budget also includes measures to supplement the general subsidy for local government units in the total amount of PLN 336 million, i.e. at the level of 2015. Back to the funding of education. The funding for education and education expenditure was also planned in part 30 of the total amount of 411 649 thousand. zł, of which the largest part of this amount is recorded in heading 801: Education and education, i.e. 352 168,000. PLN, including for Polish education abroad over 39 million, for educational support units - more than 11 million, examination commissions - more than 210 million, training, teacher training - more than 33 million PLN, R &amp; D activities - more than 2 million PLN and other activities - more than 55 million PLN. In section 854 almost PLN 3 million were allocated to educational education care, mainly for colonies and camps, as well as other forms of rest and material aid for students. On the income side in part 30: Education and upbringing the amount of nearly PLN 4 million is planned. In Part 85: The total budget of the voivodships is planned for education and education of the amount of expenditure of 184 823 thousand. PLN, intended for education curatoria over 164 million, training, teacher training - over 8 million and other activities - over 12 million PLN. The educational care is planned for spending more than PLN 27 million on colonies and camps as well as on other forms of recreation for children and young people. In addition, funding for education-related expenditure has been planned in the special provisions. And so reserve 10 is the means for the professional promotion of teachers - nearly PLN 18 million, scholarships of the President of the Council of Ministers - PLN 11 million, funds for equalising educational opportunities of children and young people - PLN 786 million, funds for the implementation of tasks under the programme "Safe+" - PLN 20 million, reserve 37: Polish-Ukrainian youth cooperation funding - PLN 4 million, reserve 52: Increasing access to preschool education - PLN 1670 million, reserve 68: Preparation and conduct of examinations confirming professional qualifications - over PLN 4 million and the National programme of Reading. Ladies and gentlemen, and at the end of my speech, briefly about part 24, which is very important from a social point of view, i.e. Culture and protection of national heritage. Expenditure is planned in this part of the total amount of 3,475,672 thousand. zł. The largest part of these funds of 1185 million is planned under heading 921: Culture and the protection of national heritage including among others. funds for film institutions, Polish Film Institute, theatres, philharmonics, orchestras, choirs, houses and cultural centers, lighthouses and clubs, galleries and artistic exhibitions offices, cultural and art centres, libraries, archives, museums, protection centres and documentation of monuments, the Council for the Protection of the Remembrance of the Fight and Martyrdom. In section 801: Education and education, financial resources are planned for artistic schools, support units for education, teacher education and training, school and preschool canteens of a total amount of 861,987 thousand. zł. In the heading: Higher education is planned to amount to 627 971 thousand. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u467	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protas, the Civic Platform Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u468	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The local government in Poland is and should be the most important partner for each government of the Republic of Poland, because it performs the vast majority of public services for our citizens, as well as generates 2/3 of public sector infrastructure investments. Unfortunately, the Polish government has been facing huge financial problems for years, mainly due to the lack of balance between the tasks and sources of their funding and the huge investment effort and the need to provide its own contributions to projects financed by the European Union. However, in the 2016 draft budget, the expected increase in subsidies and subsidies for local government units is far insufficient and inadequate to increase the revenue of the state budget. These are growing by 9.4%. The increase for local government units is only 3.3%. For example, the regional part of the general subsidy for voivodships is almost 2% lower. Grants for commissioned tasks and tasks in the field of government administration are underestimated and their implementation is further increasing government deficits. There is no financial compensation in the budget for the planned introduction of a higher tax-free amount, which could reduce the revenue of local government units from PIT by about PLN 7.8 billion per year. It is also too low to increase the expenditure on the education part of the general subsidy due to changes in the education system related to the withdrawal of six-year-olds to kindergarten. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that we proceed as soon as possible to continue to work on the new law on the financing of local government units. These works were started in the first half of this year at the Ministry of Finance. Together with local government corporations, a new law on financing JST has been developed. It is essential to ensure that Polish local authorities can work properly and provide services to society at a satisfactory level. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u469	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, the Law and Justice Club, will now speak. [[Come on, Taddy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u470	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Council of Ministers! Dear High Sejm! In my brief speech, I would first like to refer to a correction. I'm looking at Mr. Petru's party... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I was counting on it and came.]] ...but I'm talking about Kukiz's party. There were various promises, it is true, and they will be realized, but I did not hear that there was a promise of a reduction in the pension contribution. For me it is surprising because there have actually been very large reductions, 2+3 per employee side, and we have 1.5% of the pension contribution and a reduction - 2% - on the expense side of employers, which is very neat from this tribune, with this place one move Donald Tusk - yes, then he was here - he took. There was no writing, 2% on the employers' side. At that time a very important, significant, and even today quite interesting opinion came to mind from the point of view of this debate. Namely, Donald Tusk said: it is better that the money is in the ZUS than it is in the bank accounts. That's what he said. That's what he said. He knew what he was saying, because even today we have two hundred and dozens of billion deposits of entrepreneurs. The present... were fortunately the government didn't analyze what money it was. What kind of business? Are they corporate, large, powerful companies, small or medium-sized? When did these deposits come into existence? This is very important, because in order to conduct politics, you have to analyse the situation, because it is not equal to a farmer or an entrepreneur and the concept of fat cats, not by me, it was not created by chance. I know who's behind cats, who's against cats - nobody's against cats, by the way - but this idea has to say something more, something very important. I'm looking at Mrs. Krystyna Skowronska here because maybe it hurt a little bit. But getting to the point. I'd like to start with a motto. It, I think, fits very well. These are the words: Son, do not deny the poor man the things necessary for life and the eyes of the needy do not tire of delaying! Do not torment the hungry soul, and do not provoke man to anger in his lack! Those words... [[Don't tell the other guy what's wrong with you.]] Let's not interrupt. I've been good. [[Voice from the room: Extremely.]] These words are over 2,000 years old. Why are they important? Why are they smart? Besides, they are from the book of Sirach, the Book of Wisdom. Yes, the Polish parliament in democratic times delayed twenty-seven years. Let's take the Internet, let's take a fair look at all the terms, from the left, from AWS, through everyone. It's just today... Because what's about to happen now is not just a revolution, it's a revelation. I don't believe it. [[I don't want to...]] You're talking about the bank tax. Then let's tell the whole truth and nothing but the truth, just like in court. [[So help me God.]] Indeed, if the banks that we want to tax are bold, they will have the audacity to reach out and recompense this - not so great - tax on their customers, then they should meet them... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Here we close.]] ...a worthy retortion from a democratic state. [[Applause]] [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: A SKOK-i?]] And now you're talking about customers. In 2008, it's official data, 41% Poles had savings. Today, in 2015, happily ending, 59% Poles have savings. There's not a lot of them, the dynamics are serious, but it's 59%. I ask, especially Petru's party: A 41% So what? Lena? Don't they want to save money? Don't they want to save money? Are you only in Wilanów... dealing with Wilanów and Warsaw? Go to Poland, talk to young Poles, and you will find out what reality looks like. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: But we know.]] [[Voice from the room: We don't talk.]] We need to end, following this thought, with medium terrorism and statistics. Those mediums seduced, and on TV, this blue one, all the time, this confusion in the head, but luckily, the truth will claim its own. The average, you know, shows a lot, and the most important ones hide. Just like the guy who drowned in the lake where there was an average depth of 0.5 m. He drowned, didn't he? And many Poles with this average, e.g. At this average wage, I really... As someone said about entrepreneurs, so can citizens: they have an extremely difficult situation. I'm talking about this delay because I've been in the Seym for many years. From this tribune no other than John Paul II appealed to the Sejm, quoting the Complain: "Do not hide long - suffering in your chambers and treasury." Was the Polish parliament under various agids generous to the needy? I think this one change, this 500 zloty so loudly commented... That's right, this budget is for that. You said an important thing to the Minister: Polishness. Because the future is at stake here, and what happens when we're gone is at stake. Demographics are quiet, unattractive. Few people are aware of the great misfortune of the demographic problem. Average Pole, median - 39,2, today, in Poland. Half the citizens are older, the other half are younger. The Seym overwhelms this average, but it has experience and knowledge, okay. The Germans have 45 with a piece. The whole of Europe is getting old, the whole world is getting old. Only in Polish reality, if we look at the ZUS, this phenomenon has really bad effects. And it's worth a lot. Life is hard, we don't hide it. There's a risk, maybe bigger than the original one, in that archetype that the Platform left us. But we have a choice: delay with this help, especially for young families, delay and defend elegant indicators, Brussels guidelines or take some risks, but controlled, do not delay and this late rescue to young Polish families send. I'm talking about this with great conviction because I'm driving, like you all are, talking. There are many reasons, we're not haunted, and we don't think money will do anything. It's not that simple, of course not. The truth is the daughter of time. We'll see more or less effects, because we know that today we need work, especially work. And how many hundreds of thousands of young Poles are 30 years old and there is no money left aside? That's the price of a scale, a huge number of garbage contracts. You say work, work. Then go to Tolkmick, go to Gołdap, talk to the people, give them the job, have Mr Petru give them the job. He won't give you a job because the market is tough and brutal. Many people are barely pulling, and the barrier for young women is economic concern. This is one of the main causes. Besides, you need stability, an apartment. We have to think about what to do to give young people an apartment. [[It's true, because it's...]] [[To Wielkopolska.]] Why did I mention savings? Because only 59% He's got savings. Among those saving, which is even interesting - this is the whole truth, we need to analyze the structure of savings, who, how much and why saves - 27% examines every smallest expense, even for food, and twenty percent do not analyze expenditure at all. Poland is very diverse, really very diverse and medium-sized cannot confuse us with the picture of the world, because the median says more, the dominant says more. The average disposable income in the Polish family per person is almost 1400 PLN, as I say, average, median is much lower. Government debate is underway. The government is also diverse and fortunately, there are differences of opinion. Help us, get into this discussion. The fact that it has to be 500 zlotys is a definite one, but as for the details of how it will look, there is a discussion. I'm paying attention. Don't be surprised, Member. Personally, I've always been a big fan of income. We're not a poor country anymore, but we're not a rich country yet, and I don't think we can afford it today, it's not a good time. There are many very important needs in the budget, e.g. rent apartments. Do you want more people to go to Britain? The platform was able to put massive manipulation into circulation, very clumsy and reverse this cat - not fat - with its tail, because when you started exercising power, you said: when the power of the PiS ended, they would come back and you finished with the words of Mr Komorowski, who said: in times of PiS so many people left, and we stopped it, today emigration is much smaller. Do you understand what number it is? [[It is.]] [[That's right, that's right.]] Instead of explaining why they didn't come back, it went into circulation: we reduced immigration. Yeah, they're huge losses. Speaking these words and focusing on demography, I am aware that the effects of this help, I believe very deeply in this and not only I... This is not the end, we also need to continue the implementation of very good solutions of the Platform. In the area of health care - I'm talking about what's good - maybe less, but for example. assistance in access to kindergartens, various elements, for women. [[Maternity leave.]] That's not the only reason to make things better. We want to do this. The effects will only be in 20 years if we can reverse this trend, because this is a demographic drama - 1.29. In order to maintain the status quo in order to ensure a simple replacement of the family, it takes 2,10 and 2,14 per woman of childbearing age. Where does it matter to us? It takes a lot of effort, a lot of effort. Time lost, with sorrow it Let's say in the Seym, we're not coming back. I'm not saying this to create the mood of the apocalypse, but when you look at the ZUS, the trends, the graphs, it really gets cold. We say: polls, who wins the next term, we have political disputes. It's a normal thing. But the matter of helping the Polish family and not the one who has the credit, not the one, yes, for her, who can afford a mortgage... I talk to different young people, but not everyone is oh and ah, not everyone has rich parents, not everyone. We have a very diverse society. Remember, this is where we point out that half of the election isn't going, it's antisocial. Who's got the guts to say that? Often they are disillusioned people who have lost hope because they have seen a lot, but they don't believe it anymore and leave, and a large part stays abroad. Therefore, I would like to ask very warmly that this programme not only be supported, but be involved in the discussion on it. Attention to capital, because we're talking about entrepreneurs. What we're proposing is really not a punch or a punch. Polish banks have a high profitability, even at all recent charges, much higher, more than twice as high as the European average. It is also worth noting that the spirit of time is changing. Time melts in the eyes. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a big debate going on around the world, and there are various movements in different countries, and the book by Piketty, Capital, has made a big deal of it. The converted liberals speak from the head of the International Monetary Fund to the Polish aces that I will mention Mr Belka, Mr Olechowski and others, the head of the Polish Economic Society, Mrs Mączyńska. I'm sure you're reading it. Yeah, there's a huge detour. Podemos, Siriza, Kukiz, and tomorrow someone else. If there is no PiS, there will be others, and they will ask for this injustice and these unwarranted disparities in development, in access to capital simply to smooth over. I remember sleeping. Mrs Jaruga-Nowacka, who told me: Mr, don't tell the employer and the employer, because it's untrue and hurtful, as it seems like someone is giving and someone is taking. No, sir, the employee sells, he's a salesman, he sells his skills, time, work and effort, and he needs an entrepreneur and he buys it. We have to get along. I am pleased that the leaders of this government in interviews speak very strongly about this - dialogue. You have to talk to the employers, I'll use the word, and the employees. We need to find a compromise. The conflict isn't going to lead us to anything. I am also pleased with the signals, especially from Mr. Petru, who has already spoken differently. It's no longer bad, it's not bad, it's bad, it's just that you're all in favor of it, it's just that it's human. You can't marry a super budget like this, remember? And I think it's a good choice, late, but there's still hope, and that hope I'd like to share with you at the very end in the last few seconds. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Exactly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u471	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Olszewski, the Civic Platform Club, is now speaking. I think you've got two minutes left.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u472	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I am much less theatrical and less theatrical than my previous speaker. I will focus only on infrastructure issues. In this budget, fortunately, and this is the light in the tunnel, abstracting from the entire budget, infrastructure issues were completely intact by the state, remained at the same level. That's a good thing. You left behind all the programs that the infrastructure and development department then had prepared, i.e. a programme for the development of municipal and district infrastructure, i.e. the famous schetins, a programme for the construction of national roads by 2023, and well, a national railway programme. On the other hand, in the context of these provisions, unchanged provisions, the statements of Minister Adamczyk raise doubts about the reality of these programmes, particularly the programme for the construction of national roads. Hence the question: What investments will the government want to take off under this scheme? Which he won't want to finance? I hope that an investment involving the road between Bydgoszcz and Torun, the S10, with the support of the director's father from Torun will be implemented. At least I wish this to the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region. We have also invested a great deal of money in modern rolling stock. Today are the first connections using PESA Dart. I hope that the government will carry out what we have already prepared, that is, this agreement, and it will be possible to order PESA, because this is the only agreement that is now, to deliver another 10 darts, which can be done free of charge, without conducting a tendering procedure. I therefore hope that all these infrastructure decisions will be maintained, and I look forward to answering the question that we have already asked Minister Adamczyk many times, which of the road investments you want to eliminate from the national road construction programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u473	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u474	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Much has been said today about a good change and a good repair of budgetary revenues, the sealing of the tax system, the sealing of tax revenues. Of course, in your budget, the budget you are proposing for 2016, you are predicting an increase in revenue from the tax on goods and services. The difference between 2015 and 2016 is over PLN 7 billion. That's about 6.1%. More. I have a question: How do you want to do it and who do you want to get it from, and how? I don't think you're going to go that far to introduce rates in language schools. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because that's what you proposed before the parliamentary elections. I'm warning you against that. Mr. Marshal, may I have another one? Would you mind? Thank you very much. I warn against it, but I also warn against what many people know. Sealing the system is control, even more control. I warn against this, so as not to introduce these controls, I warn that these measures should not be sought from Polish entrepreneurs, because this is the Polish entrepreneur at the very end... [[Voice from the room: Time, time.]] ...who doesn't have many officials, doesn't have consulting firms supporting him. This Polish entrepreneur is a Polish entrepreneur. And there's one more thing I want to say, Mr. Marshal, at the end. We have succeeded in introducing the principle of in dubio pro tributario, which is the principle of resolving disputes between the office and the taxpayer for the benefit of the taxpayer, in the last term of office. And that's the warning. Remember, if you are looking for these measures, if you control the entrepreneurs, that is the principle that commands the dispute to be settled for the taxpayer, it protects the Polish entrepreneur. [[Applause]] And we, as the Civic Platform... As a parliamentarian, I will always stand on the taxpayer's side, and I will always be against too much state control in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u475	Thank you very much, sir. This way, we've run out of time for the club appearances. 84 Members have joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: 1.5 minutes, Marshal.]] As the first vote... [[Voice from the room: Not enough.]] We'll be here by dawn, and the dawn on these winter days is late, so... [[But we like it that way. You've already got us used to it.]] Well, that's what they like. Mr Artur Górski, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u476	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The Civil Service Council criticised the provisions of the 2016 draft budget prepared by the Government of the Civic Platform in its resolution of 29 September this year. two important issues in this project. Firstly, that the government of the PO does not want to increase the ceiling for appointments of civil servants for the next year. There should be only 200 new highly qualified officials, embarrassingly little, quite not enough. Secondly, that the government of the PO did not plan for the next year to create a reserve for civil service modernisation, because the party did not want and does not want to modernise the administration of the Republic of Poland. So I have a question for the Minister of Finance of our government. Minister, I know that this draft budget is inherited from its predecessors and the scope of manoeuvre is now very limited. However, is there any chance that in the coming years the PiS government will remove the policy of stagnation and neglect of the PO towards the government administration and strengthen this backbone of the state? And last question: Does the National School of Public Administration have a chance to get more financial support from the government against the cuts made by the government of the PO, limiting the development of this forge of Polish administration? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please answer my questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u477	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club, now has a voice. You don't have an MP? Therefore, Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u478	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're discussing the budget. Therefore, a brief example of administrative expenditure and the absence of restrictions on such expenditure. The State Labour Inspection operates on the basis of the statute given by the order of the Marshal of the Polish Sejm. The State Labour Inspection shall be the body appointed to supervise and control labour law. The head of the institution is the Chief Labour Inspector. In practice, the District Departments of the State Labour Inspection are able to act themselves, take control, while the Chief Labour Inspector has been organising luxurious banquets for years at the Royal Castle in Warsaw, the Artus Court in Gdansk organizes cyclically luxurious banquets called awards, the cost of which ranges from tens to several hundred thousand zlotys for one. How many such events a month, a year? Will this additional PLN 26 million be allocated to subsequent banquets at the expense of the taxpayer? Long live the prom! The budget is rising from 291 million to almost 318 million. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Not much, the Chief Labour Inspector four times a year admits to himself 10,000. zł reward. Is this the kind of governance culture you promote in public administration? Start respecting taxpayers' money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u479	Thank you very much, sir. Now you have the floor of Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u480	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to raise the issue of the budget, the European funds and, in particular, their spending. The draft budget law for 2016 states that from PLN 341 billion allocated to cohesion policy in the financial perspective of 2014.2020 you intend to spend only 8%. If we would like to divide this into national programmes and RPPs, according to the 2016 Partnership Agreement, about PLN 29.5 billion should be spent from the national programmes. There's 14.5 billion in the budget, which is only about 49%. what we have in the partnership agreement. As far as the overall allocation for national programmes is concerned, we will spend only 7% of the 215 billion next year. As far as the RPO is concerned, the partnership agreement for 2016 is 17 billion and we will use 13 billion. This is 76% So a little better than in national programs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As far as all the resources are concerned...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u481	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u482	...we've got 10%. I'd say 125 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u483	You're welcome to observe time discipline.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u484	I would like to ask the question: Why is this pace so slow? I find this pace unsatisfactory and disturbing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u485	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party, is now speaking. I ask you to keep discipline, time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u486	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the increase in administration mentioned here by the Minister. Well, yesterday I got a rather disturbing e-mail from a construction inspection. Such increases were previously prepared in the draft budget. In the first place, they were to be covered by persons whose recruitments do not exceed 2500 PLN. Right now, there's some information that this raise isn't gonna happen, which is why I'd ask you to explain this case. Of course in writing, because these are pretty difficult things. What will the increases be in the administration, in other inspections, in what amount, and who will receive them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u487	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Ryszard Galla, independent, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u488	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When debating the 2016 budget, I would like to ask the Minister about a few issues. The first is the budget part 22: Water management, specifically the amount of over PLN 367 million allocated to the implementation of tasks by the National Water Management Board and regional water management boards. This amount is quite high, but it is not sufficient to fully carry out all tasks, especially with regard to the day-to-day maintenance of hydrotechnical equipment on Polish rivers. This is a serious problem. For many years, we have sought, together with the Minister in his previous term, to make more of these measures. My question: Will you really spend more money? I also ask about the water level of Malczyce, it has been 18 years, this year its implementation has been interrupted. Will it continue in 2016 and when will it be completed? The last point is the preservation of monuments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, I would very much ask you to lean on this. For a few years now, I've been trying to get...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u489	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u490	...event the rules of maintenance funding. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u491	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Latos, Club of Law and Justice, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u492	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you about financing the treatment of patients with haemophilia. There was, it seems, such a situation that the previous PO-PSL coalition was forgetful and forgot that it is 12 months a year and it is necessary to provide funding for the treatment of these patients throughout the year, and not just for the first six months. This has been improved with the correction of the budget, but also by the way I wanted to ask for some reference to the wisdom of the former minister, whose numbers, numbers, patients were wrong. He said something about hundreds of zlotys to treat transplant recipients, and it seems to be about millions, but about 80 million that will lose a pharmaceutical company due to the introduction of generic drugs. These drugs will cost, as far as I know, 3.20 and 10.50, not 100 zlotys. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is worth referring to the matter as well. And finally...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u493	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u494	...I wanted to ask you about financing the S5 expressway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u495	Thank you very much. Mrs Isabel Leszczyn, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. There is no Member. Mr Paweł Szramka, a Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u496	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft budget law states that funds will be increased to 2% for the defence of our country GDP. In the current situation, this is absolutely justified, but I would like to ask whether the Ministry of National Defence is also aware of how much money is wasted in the military. I mean, among other things. not quite thought out tenders, or even modernization of old equipment, which is used up, is literally hardly needed by our military, and yet huge money is pumped into this equipment, and interestingly enough, such modernization is often cost-effective even at the cost of purchasing new units that could replace this already developed equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u497	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u498	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I share the view that the budget law is the most important law in this House, actually determining the lives of millions of people. Thus, when working on this law, special care should be taken, first of all planning a revenue side. In the draft 2016 budget submitted, you are very optimistic about the growth of revenue from goods and services tax by more than 6%, which is an increase of PLN 7382 million in volume compared to 2015 performance. Similarly, you assume an increase in excise duty. The implementation of these revenues seems highly questionable, resulting in rigid expenditure leading to an increase in debt and a return to the excessive deficit procedure. In addition, it should be noted that a further decrease is expected in 2016 [[♪ The bell ♪]] fuel prices, which are extremely pleasing to consumers, but certainly should be worried by the Minister of Finance, because these goods significantly shape...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u499	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u500	...inventory from indirect taxes. That's the question. Did the Ministry analyze VAT and excise income in terms of the fall in fuel prices? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u501	Mrs Bożena Kamińska, the Civic Platform Club, now has a voice. Mrs. Bożena Kaminska. [[Let me ask you a question, Marshal.]] But you're not at the podium. [[Voice from the hall: She's the other way...]] There you go. We're prolonging your time on purpose. [[Thank you so much. I'm sorry.]] We're changing the order - you're running around the room... No, please, now. You have one minute. [[I'll wait.]] There's no way.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u502	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about balancing expenditure and revenue. How does the Government of Law and Justice intend to balance expenditure and income if fundamental macroeconomic assumptions such as inflation and the rate of gold do not work? Where you will find the missing billions of zlotys when it turns out that 1 euro will cost more than 4.03 zlotys, a dollar more than 3.66 zlotys, and inflation will be less than 1.7% ? I also have a huge request because I made a statement on the non-taxation of 23 percent VAT in language schools, and I reiterate my appeal to the government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, so as not to tax institutions that conduct training in the field of...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u503	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u504	...education, language schools. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u505	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, a club of the Polish People's Party, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u506	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the budget law is one of the most important and important laws. For many years I worked on the drafts of these laws personally, listened to and listened to many catastrophic assessments and diagnoses from today's opposition... of course, the opposition at that time. The roles have been reversed today, but I am not going to join this scenario, especially since the government of Prime Minister Szydło did not interfere very much with the budget presented by us, and secondly I wish good budget implementation, because I wish Poland well. However, it is impossible not to ask about this additional increase in revenue and additional increase in expenditure, because in terms of expenditure on this flagship project despite subsequent conversions and increases, it is possible to give them completely, quite precisely, while in terms of these additional revenues, the planned revenues, they are all unknown, because both the bill on tax on financial institutions and large-area shops is a big unknown question, so the question may be rhetorical, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the question is the reality of these revenues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u507	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jerzy Gosievski, the Law and Justice Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u508	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Ministers, My question is mostly to the Minister of National Defence. It's very good that national defense spending is increasing. Expenditure in this section on equipment, the reinforcement of the Armed Forces is about 10 billion. I would like to ask the question: Shouldn't we somehow make these expenses dependent on production in the country or set a criterion for companies to invest in the country? I would like to state in the explanatory memorandum that universities in Bialystok, Wrocław, the capital and research institutes in various international competitions win, in the field of mechatronics we lead the world, therefore these young people, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We should use capable people to make production in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u509	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u510	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, we have succeeded this year - I am talking to the Minister of Finance - because 9 billion broadband injections will save us a long-term family+ programme. At least there will be half for this 17.5 billion, but what will happen in the next few years when there will be no such financial injections? And here we read that the 10-year program - glory is organized - will cost, will cost, according to the OSR, 245.5 billion, and according to the Ministry of Finance 220 billion. We've lost $25 billion somewhere. I understand that if you're asking the finance minister, you're discussing with the applicants, it's not being put in a corner, just like Parliament was put up today, when he was really asking the same question, about this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how the multi-annual programme will be financed, Family 500+. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u511	Thank you very much. Now Mr Józef Brynkus, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The problem I want to ask you is inherited as much as most of the problems after the previous team were caused by the government president Beata Szydło. However, this problem is also not solved in the draft budget law. This concerns completion of the construction of the tank in Świnna Poręba. So far, a lot has been done there, and about 75 million PLN is missing for the construction of the necessary roads and for the protection of landslides. This is not provided for in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, nor in the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction. Therefore, I ask where there will be funds to complete the investment, which is worth over 2100 million and is necessary for the flood safety of Małopolska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u513	Thank you very much. Now you have the voice of Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u514	I know it's a tough name, but it's pronounced Shojring, Mr. Marshal - first, second is Biggus. The question I have is quite simple, because I wonder how the politicians of Law and Justice will look into the eyes of local governments. I remember, at the first or second meeting, we discussed the parliamentary bill, the citizens' bill, regarding the financing of local government units. We know from this law, but I also think that all of you, that local governments are losing a lot of revenue reduction, about 8 billion a year, plus a minus, depending on a year. I'd just like to know what your idea of self-government is. You're introducing a very expensive 500+ program with hypothetical money, so what's the idea of self-government... [[Voice from the room: Petru.]] ...who actually have very hard work, and you have absolutely no idea, no idea. I would also like to ask you to answer all the questions in writing, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I've been asking since November 12 here on this seymary. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Unbelievable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u515	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sawicki, the club of the Polish People's Party, is absent. Mr Piotr Polak, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u516	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Much is said here about the search for new sources of funding for the budget, new revenue for the budget. I'd like to ask you, Minister, about the gray area. Unfortunately, in the last few years, little has been done in Poland on the subject of liquidation or limitation of the grey zone. I mean, Minister, an idea, and a new idea, because it is already introduced in many European Union countries, limiting the maximum limit of payments in business-to-business transactions. In Poland such a limit - says the applicable law on freedom of business - amounts to 15 thousand. Euros. Above this amount, appropriate transactions must be carried out by electronic means. In Italy, such a limit is 1000 euro, in other countries [[♪ The bell ♪]] From 1.5 to 2,000. Are there any proposed changes in this area...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u517	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u518	...in Poland, to at least 3,000. The euro, as we have heard, introduce this limit on non-cash transactions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u519	Thank you very much. Now Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u520	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We want the heart of Polish industry to beat in Silesia again. Not so long ago, a few weeks ago, in November here, from this bleacher, the words that the Prime Minister said. Today I'm looking at this draft budget and I'm looking at what we can read to stimulate this heart, to strengthen it. I'm looking and I can't see. Two weeks ago or a week ago, we adopted a law on amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining, where we secured the next billions of zlotys that the Platform was bringing back then, extended this program, gave us the credit of trust. But there is also a restructuring plan for mining, which is continued by Law and Justice, but to this package Prime Minister Kopacz has added a programme for Silesia. What did Law and Justice propose? Purchase of coal by the Material Reserve Agency. That's why, Minister, I'm asking you how much money has been secured. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in this budget for the purchase of this coal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u521	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u522	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister has spoken a lot recently about freedom, about the right to choose parents. The President spoke a lot about the right of migrants to return to Poland. Both of these issues have been painfully verified by this budget, where more than 3,000. children are likely to be deprived of education outside the school walls. In addition to families for whom it is a question of choice, you take away the possibility of completing Polish schools to children of migrants, who often obtain certificates of both foreign fixed schools and Polish institutions. It is not only unethical and harmful, but also contrary to the constitution, because it is discriminatory for a certain part of Poles. My question is: Why are you looking for microscopic savings at the expense of home education and e-learning, and you agree to waste tens of millions of zlotys [[♪ The bell ♪]] Even at the Educational Research Institute? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u523	Thank you very much. Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u524	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unrealistic budgetary assumptions with increased and inefficient expenditure, such as the allocation of 500 PLN to wealthy families, will inevitably lead to the fact that this money will not go to other, more in need. An example from a few days ago is the situation of financing medicines, reimbursement of medicines for people, for children in particular, which are after transplants. And with one hand the state gives 500 PLN for each child, including the wealthy family, and the other they collect money for children who really need this help. [[No, you didn't. Read it.]] Prices of medicines that are used by children after transplants will increase. [[Arłukowicz is not telling the truth.]] It's not that simple to switch to generic drugs, because some of them aren't tested on children. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[That's not true.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u525	I'm asking for peace in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u526	Many of the solutions you are proposing today, including banking tax, are blocking the development of the financial sector and this will make it impossible to achieve even the growth projected by [[♪ The bell ♪]] financial institutions, thereby deepening the deficit.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u527	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u528	I have a question about why the government...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u529	Madam, you had a minute to ask these questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u530	...predicts growth of 3.8% in 2016, since both the OECD, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u531	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u532	...predict an increase of up to 3.5%. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u533	Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u534	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On 2 December, at the 3rd meeting of the Sejm, we considered a citizens' bill which assumes the inclusion of the Customs Service in uniform services, which involves increased budget expenditure. Hence my question: In the 2016 budget, have you secured for this purpose an appropriate amount on the expenditure side and what is the amount? Question two. The President announced the introduction from 1 January 2016 of a significantly increased tax-free amount, which, of course, results in much less revenue for the state budget. I am interested, I think, in this interest also of all Poles, since you plan to implement this electoral promise and how much revenue will decrease. Have you planned in the budget adequate compensation resources for local authorities due to the smaller impact on local budgets? One last question. Please answer me, which is the reason for such a dramatically increased amount of operation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] State Election Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u535	Thank you, sir. Mr Sławomir Piechota, Civic Platform. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Three specific issues concerning the implementation of tasks for disabled people. First, does the government plan to equal the care allowance with the care allowance? This was a request repeatedly raised by representatives of the current government coalition over the last few years. Today, the care allowance amounts to PLN 153 and the care allowance is already over PLN 200 and is still growing because it is included in the mechanism of valorizing pensions and pensions. So will both the same benefits as for the purpose and function be equalized? We see such generous spending of money, especially for various social purposes, so it seems that this goal should also be achieved shortly. Secondly, will it be maintained, at least at the current level, the grant of the state budget to the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities, because it is important [[♪ The bell ♪]] The fund's revenue element?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u537	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u538	And one last short question, Mr. Marshal. How will the problem of increasing the funding of workshops of occupational therapy be solved? How much recently raised funding for a participant in the occupational therapy workshop will be accepted as a permanent element of this task? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u539	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u540	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The budget proposal for next year envisages an increase in the share of municipalities in PIT tax revenues. Total share j.s.t. in PIT revenues is expected to increase - note - of 49.52% to 49.64%. A little modest. I understand that your government has taken over the orphan's inheritance. Question: "Whether the government and the finance minister will have the political will to deal seriously with the compensation of financial losses for j.s.t. So that local governments can finally get their money back at least in 2017? Because as we can see, that won't happen in 2016. The second question is greetings to the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the President of the franchise. Today we talked so much about family, so much about banks, about dignity, about credibility. Ladies and gentlemen, thousands of Polish families lose not only their homes, but also their credibility towards their own country, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as well as an opportunity and hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u541	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u542	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to say, Prime Minister, that the debate on the Constitutional Tribunal is not a substitute topic. Prime Minister, Polish democracy is not a substitute topic. I want to make this very clear. Questions, short. Too bad my favorite minister isn't here. I wanted to ask you why the theater budget was reduced by 7 million. Is this some kind of revenge, revenge for the situation around!Death and the girl? I'm asking you to answer that question. I would also like to ask what is happening to the mining tax, which is very important to us in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. This is the tax that KGHM pays, and the fate of many budgetary institutions in our voivodship depends on this tax. I also wanted to say that there is a very important cultural budget this year, and I want to congratulate the PiS... I'm serious. For the first time in years this budget has a chance to be [[♪ The bell ♪]] realistic and increase the level of existence of artists in Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u543	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u544	...instead of taking away artists from the theater money is a hopeless idea of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u545	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u546	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to the first part of the speech, I would like to ask the Minister, but also the Prime Minister, because she, as the leader of the political formation in the elections, said this on 20 October in the electoral debate: I will talk about the concreteities and what we have already prepared, i.e. the draft laws, rather than what might enter into force in 2017 or 2020. First of all, we propose 15%. CIT for small enterprises. Question: "Where, Minister, in the budget is the reduction of CIT for small enterprises since 2016?" Not since 2017 or 2020. [[2017 is here?]] When will the reduction of CIT for small enterprises enter into force? Another question, perhaps directly related to the budget, but important, what Mr Cymanski said about talking to people, about what people are saying in the field: When direct payments increase [[♪ The bell ♪]] for the agriculture you promised, and how will you compensate for the losses incurred by stopping exports to Russia? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u547	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u548	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I am interested in very basic issues concerning the 2016 budget. I hope that answers will also be given to my questions, because millions of Poles are waiting for them. What will be the final cost of implementing the 500+ programme? According to the latest information entered in the budget, the amount of PLN 16.1 billion is understated by almost PLN 2 billion. If the cost of the 500+ programme were indeed higher, would the missing amount be covered by the higher government budget deficit? My next question: What amount was allocated in the 2016 budget for the programme, project 75+? According to the Law and Justice electoral promise, will all senior citizens, after 75 years of age, receive free medicines and since when exactly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u549	Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u550	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to address the question to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. Minister! When I looked at the draft agricultural budget, I was surprised to note that it did not take into account the enormous savings that should be made by combining inspections and agricultural agencies. What month next year do you intend to merge inspections and agricultural agencies? From what I've heard so far, it's a matter of weeks, not months. Another surprise is the double increase in expenditure in the plant protection budget, while leaving unchanged expenditure on the co-financing of organic production. Eco-farming produces high-quality agricultural products that not only feed but also cure. Isn't it a mistake in poems, not a mistake in poems? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Willing action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u551	Thank you, sir. Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u552	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The question is addressed to Minister Paul the Shamacha. Namely, it has been said that a circumvention clause will be introduced. I would like to know what it will contain and what this clause, which is to enter into force in the second quarter of 2016. I would like to ask if it will be discretionary. Furthermore, it has been said that a tax avoidance council will be set up. Who will sit on this council, and how precise and unambiguous will this circumvention clause be in the interpretation for officials? She is needed, but she must be extremely reliable and clearly prepared in a very understandable way, especially for the official, but also for the taxpayer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u553	Mr Paweł Bejda, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u554	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I wanted to ask you if and why you want to privatize the State Forests. I can see the surprise on my faces, but I'll explain. Remember, in the local elections, I apologize, in the parliamentary elections, before the parliamentary elections, you played this card for a long time, you said that that government, the Polish People's Party together with the Civic Platform, introducing a 2% tax on the revenue from the sale of wood, is carrying out an attack on the State Forests. You had the perfect opportunity at the moment to make sure that 2% tax wasn't there. How will you look into the eyes of the rangers who are definitely watching us? The second question is to the Minister of Finance. Where is the budget guaranteed for aid to farmers in this difficult situation to buy back surplus milk and pigmeat? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u555	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, a corrigendum to what the Prime Minister said about this 25% increase in GDP over the past eight years, that only the rich benefited from it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the fact that pensions have increased faster than wages, that the minimum wage has increased faster than the average wage, that it has been made, that child relief has been introduced, that the social spread has been decreasing in the last eight years, and that the Gini ratio indicates that. Secondly, I would like to refer to this 500 PLN project, the first project, which is already in 2016 because there will be no funds and money for this project, because only 7 billion PLN will come from new taxes, while the remaining 9 billion, which are missing to finance this project next year, will come from a one-off fee for the provision of telecommunications frequencies. Therefore, I ask myself: Did you do anything, some forecast for 2017, when there will be no one-off payments, when 500 PLN will have to be paid throughout the year and when it will be as a minimum introduction of the tax-free amount, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's a decision. The Constitutional Court? Do you not think that an investigation of up to 500 PLN should be spread over several years until the end of the term of office, and start with a more modest sum which would correspond to the fixed income of the state budget rather than once? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u557	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Kozłowski, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u558	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo!·The draft of the state budget for 2016 will be summarised briefly: the optimism of the government as to revenue and the spread of expenditure. What methodology did the government adopt in determining the tax on large-scale shops for PLN 2 billion? The bill isn't here yet, and the tax is already in the budget. I have a similar question about the banking tax, which has not in fact been passed yet. As far as expenditure is concerned, a large part of it is absorbed by an overgrown administration and countless agencies, inspections, foundations. What is the point of having a place in public finances, e.g. Polish Horse Racing Club? Does the government provide for an audit of budgetary units to verify the reasonableness of expenditure? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u559	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions. I'm impressed by the concerns of Law and Justice over the expenses of defence, but I have some doubt because this message is so strange. Because not so long ago, two weeks ago we were updating the 2015 budget law, where we took from the department: National Defence 208 million PLN. I have a question: If next year's budget runs out of money, will this procedure be renewed? So just when there's no money left to meet the electoral promises, will national defence continue to be exposed to a reduction in funding? And the other. I'll be honest with you that I didn't find this in this budget, and I remember that it wasn't that long ago in the election campaign that Law and Justice would provide an apartment of 3,000. PLN 1 m2. I'll be honest with you, I've been looking in the budget for some department that might indicate that Law and Justice wants to fulfill another election promise, but somehow I didn't find it. Minister, maybe I haven't read it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u561	Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform Club. There is no Member. Mr Tomasz Jaskóla, Kukiz club15. There isn't any either. [[There it is, there it is.]] He's coming. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u562	There he is, and he's running. Mr. Marshal! Dear Socialists Believers and Unbelievers! Deficit, fool! [[Applause]] That's paraphrasing, my dear Minister. When Minister Shamacha - and praise him for it - said the word: deficit, it stuck in his throat, and very well. However, when Professor Żyżyński, with all due respect to your professor, said that the deficit is justified, that this difference is huge and correct, I admit, I have lost, I have lost. [[Horrible.]] I am glad, ladies and gentlemen, that we have read other books and I am glad - perhaps the most - that it is not economic professors who create GDP of Poland, but entrepreneurs. [[Applause]] It's also a small difference. Entrepreneurs read Hayek, or they'd fail. And the question is, I have 16 seconds. When are we going to hear about the savings on the elimination of unnecessary and unnecessary districts? When we hear about an agenda which, in some way, at least understood by citizens, shows a change in the government's attitude towards the deficit? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u563	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Modern. You're not here. You're an MP.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u564	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A number of assumptions have been adopted in the Act, among others. that the average rate of gold to the euro is 4.03, to the dollar - 3.66, that inflation will be 1.7% , and GDP growth 3.8%. Well, I wanted to ask you how these volumes were adopted, whether on the basis of my own research, or taking into account market assessments, possibly which assessments. Because I would wish Poland such indicators, but I have the impression that these sizes are extremely optimistic and could actually be matched in Excel to what was needed. For example, I have the impression that if you were planning the average dollar rate, you did not take into account the expectations of oil price reductions, and yet it is known that this pair is negatively correlated, which means that if oil is generally cheap, the dollar is growing. So we have, for example. for this assumption, in my opinion, a large risk. And already planning next year's inflation at 1.7 looks, with all due respect, Minister, like persistently asking for [[♪ The bell ♪]] Penalty, but no goalkeeper at the gate. Which is why I'm asking for a precise explanation of why these economic indicators and...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u565	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u566	...maybe right away, Minister, what's the rescue plan? And I'll ask you to answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u567	Mr Arkadiusz Carrotka, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u568	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The main message of this law is: you want to wind up the economy, increasing demand and passing several hundred zlotys a month to Poles, and this will above all increase the budget gap. It reminds me a little bit of a desire to become a philanthropist on a loan that doesn't even have any money in the budget. Your flagship project, the 500+ family, was originally supposed to cost 13.5 billion, but after the impact assessment, it would be 3700 million more than you expected. Then where do you want to get the money if the sources that are saved do not guarantee the revenue that will cover 100% of these needs? One source of funding for this scheme is the implementation of a large-scale shop tax. In this bill you assumed that these revenues would amount to PLN 2 billion, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I'm asking if these are real maths, or just reading from the fuss, because...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u569	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u570	...no laws and no documents have been presented in this case. Which is why I'm asking you to answer how...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u571	Mr President, you are out of time, please finish your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u572	...it will look like this and on what basis the 2 billion were estimated. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u573	Mr Jacek Wilk, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u574	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! One of the biggest problems of Polish public finances is subsidies to the Social Insurance Fund. It can't be any different because the Social Security Office, the rules of this pension system, is one big financial pyramid, which, as you know, every pyramid has to fall apart. Besides, the ZUS has been bankrupt long ago, which can be easily demonstrated, given the increasing amounts that we are now filling this hole in this bottomless bag. I have a question as to whether there is any long-term idea, some idea of government to reduce this deficit, whether we will continue to force Poles to participate in this financial pyramid and thus force them to make minimum, even starving pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u575	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u576	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of this debate, I would like to ask, because Mr Cymanski, who unfortunately is no longer with us, spoke quite flowerly about how it is worth investing in children, that 49% Poles are not spared, and they need help. But I remind you that your 500+ program will also give money to rich Poles and medium-earning Poles, but also to those who have really big savings in their accounts, so probably not such rhetoric. Here, on the other hand, there was also a very different approach from the PiS to debt. Mr Noblet spoke of the fact that public debt actually needs to be reduced and that the Law and Justice have an idea and have a plan. On the other hand, Mr Żyżyński says that, as if debt is the good of the state, the aim of the state is not to be economical, but to go with full momentum. In this connection, I really wanted to ask how long-term the law and justice programme is and when we get to know a long-term strategy in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u577	Thank you. Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u578	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I represent Radom land. It's a region of the largest sadists. And I have a question on their behalf about the construction of the 2016 budget. Does the government provide for VAT or other tax on those entrepreneurs who transferred apples free of charge to schools, kindergartens and workplaces? If so, what budget revenue is foreseen for this purpose? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u579	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Bakun, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u580	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As it has repeatedly sounded out of this podium, as the Kukiz club15, we are opposed to the debt of future generations of Poles. Unfortunately, there are many expenditures in both this budget and in all previous ones, which are booklike examples of mismanagement. One such expenditure is the project of the first Polish nuclear power plant for which, according to conservative estimates, about PLN 300 million has been spent since 2009, and the project has not gone beyond the selection phase of this power plant. Another PLN 9 million has been reserved for this purpose in the next year's budget. So I wanted to ask: Does the government intend to continue to subsidize this project, which is in fact a further search for a location for this investment for PLN 10 million per year and are the total costs associated with the construction of this plant known? We know that over 300 million have been spent so far. The next million are planned to be spent annually and the project, which was to be completed initially in 2019, is said not to be created before 2031. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u581	Thank you. Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u582	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One member of the Law and Justice has criticised the flexible credit line of the International Monetary Fund. Does he even know that a flexible credit line can be sought by countries with solid foundations, leading a responsible policy in the past? The first aid was granted in April 2009 by Mexico and Poland in May 2009. Is it true that the increase in domestic demand in 2016 is supported by the fact that the EU excessive deficit procedure is currently not being applied to Poland and that the effect of the previous government's change in the functioning of the pension system is not at the moment at risk of exceeding the prudential threshold 55% Public debt-to-GDP ratio? Does the Minister know that [[♪ The bell ♪]] maintaining a high budget deficit, when the economic situation is good, reduces opportunities...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u583	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u584	...the application of an active fiscal policy by the State in the future when the economic situation deteriorates? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u585	Mr Marian Zembala. Excuse me, Mr Maciej Masławski earlier, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u586	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, a lady associated with the Podkarpackie PSL for the last two years has served as a general member of the Department of Culture of the City Office and before that for three years in the Marshal's office, even during the term of the Marshal of PSL, Mr. Mirosław, more widely known as the Sex Marshal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] In any case, this lady - I will add that she is a Hungarian translator - on 9 November, three days before the new term of the Sejm, includes the function of director of the Polish Space Agency in Rzeszów. [[Bravo!]] In the budget I see that there is a planned expenditure of more than 9 million on the Polish Space Agency, of which nearly 6 million is spent on salaries. Therefore, I have this question: Is there a real development plan - a question to the Minister - the Polish Space Agency? If so, what is it? Are we going to do something about this storage room for our own people, with a storage room, just the cradle of positions for people who are sometimes in the wrong place? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u587	Thank you very much. And now Mr Marian Zembala, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u588	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ministers! High Seym! As an academic teacher, I would like to convince, not only Minister Radziwiłł, because it is easier, easier to convince him, but also the Prime Minister and the State, to apply this opportunity, which most developed countries of the Union have, also in Poland. That is, clinical hospitals, institutes have a different assessment of benefits. I would like to say that this level in the case of complicated patients sent from county hospitals, marshals to them justifies such action. It's 32 million. Minister, there's an appropriate solution. Please use it over and over again. The second point concerns haemophilia. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has forgotten the calendar here, only caution and responsibility have caused - I was the initiator - that [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the limited money held by the Ministry of Health, we moved it to the fund to better look after the sick and not waste money, because there's 300 million, and the ministry's resources are limited.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u589	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u590	In view of this concern for the safety of the sick, I have made this decision and keep it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u591	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u592	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to speak again on the issue of six-year-olds, because there should be a certain security in the budget bill. If preschool seats are taken back by six-year-olds at this point, then three-year-olds and four-year-olds will not take place. And that's simple math. Some local authorities have already started to calculate this, e.g. 8,000 will be missing in Bydgoszcz. places, in Opole - thousand places, in Bialystok - more than 4 thousand. places, in Krakow - 12 thousand. places, in Warsaw - almost 34 thousand. Places. Self-governments fear that there aren't enough places in private kindergartens. Here I begin to understand the deeper meaning of this law 500+, because this money will probably have to be transferred immediately to the upbringing of my own children. However, I have a question: do you assume any additional funding for local governments, even to ensure the right of parents [[♪ The bell ♪]] To send your child to kindergarten? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u593	Thank you. Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u594	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Last year was a very conflicting year, especially in the context of the war in Ukraine, which we have across the eastern border, as well as in the context of the attack of Islamic immigrants, which we are observing from the North African region to our continent. In the draft budget for 2016 we see the amount for defence in Podlaskie Voivodship of PLN 339 million. And this amount is, interestingly, lower than for the defence of the Świętokrzyskie voivodship, which is located in central Poland and has no external borders, including the borders of the European Union or NATO. And I would like to ask: in this context, is the planned amount for defence of the Podlaskie voivodship, in which, for example, the Suwałski Passage, referred to by NATO as the hot spot in our part of Europe, is the government sufficient? Should this amount actually be lower than the amount for defence of voivodships located in central Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u595	Thank you. Mr Marek Owl, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u596	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning a quote from the Budget Act describing Poland in ruins: The Polish economy is located on the path of rapid growth, starting from 2013. Export remains in a clear growth trend, which promotes the high competitiveness of Polish companies and improves the dynamics of activity in the main Polish export markets. This is reflected in the higher dynamics of industrial production and investment. As labour demand increases and unemployment falls, the situation on the labour market is improving. However, there is no forecast increase in tax revenue for increasing tax collections in the budget. And let me remind you that just a few weeks ago, Minister Kowalczyk claimed that next year an improvement in the tax collection will add a few or several billion zlotys. It is worth asking: Where is the money? In the Tax Revenue Act we have only PLN 177 million more than the previous government predicted. In addition, in the budget I do not find the funds they have sought in previous years for Małopolska investments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Gowin and Mr Adamczyk. How is it possible that, having a real impact on the shape of the budget, they forgot their promises?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u597	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u598	I would like to assure the ministers that, in the course of further work on the budget, I will make appropriate amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u599	Thank you. Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u600	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question will be about special funds. We now have 29 special-purpose funds that absorb a large part of the budget. They replicate tasks that are commissioned to ministries, but must have additional administrative support. Why, for example? Service support funds, such as the Police Support Fund, the Border Guard Support Fund or the State Fire Department, are not included in one fund with one administrative service or are not included in these tasks commissioned by the Ministry of Home Affairs? Why, for example? The cultural aid fund, even though culture in Poland is underfunded, absorbs this part of the state budget for administrative services, where this money could quietly go to real promotion of culture? Is there any future change planned in this area of the budget? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u601	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u602	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions about the debt management strategy of the public finance sector. On page 5 of this document, you give inconsistent data. You write that the debt-to-GDP ratio will grow to 49%, and after stabilisation in 2017 it will decrease to 47.5 in 2019 and just below you say that the debt-to-GDP ratio of the general government sector will grow to 52.1% by 2017. As you say, this will be the result of the implementation of infrastructure tasks from the National Road Fund, and the real reason for the increase in debt is the implementation of costly electoral promises, because infrastructure investments were planned in the September budget. Why does the Government of Law and Justice hide the truth from Poles that the real cause of debt growth is the fulfilment of costly electoral promises? How is it possible that the assumption that [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the same time, the maintenance of this growing debt will remain nominally at the same level...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u603	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u604	...and in relation to GDP will it drop significantly? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u605	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u606	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. The Budget Act envisages an increase in revenue resulting from the collection of VAT in the order of 6% , an increase of more than 6%, that is over PLN 7 billion. My question is quite brief: How does the tax system intend to do this, given the scale of VAT fraud? For the time being, only criminal actions are being carried out, several prosecutors in the country are prosecuting these frauds, and it is no longer known whether the same fact does not cause corruption anymore, but I do not see any systematic attempts to eliminate this problem. The reverse VAT is used very cost-effectively. There are no changes in the structure of the tax offices so that they can cope with this problem. Therefore, the question is whether, apart from rhetoric, any concrete actions are planned, primarily actions in the field of change of the system, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Legal change?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u607	It was supposed to be short.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u608	And I would ask for this answer as soon as possible in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u609	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u610	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the draft state budget for 2016, the deficit in relation to 2015 is rising by PLN 4760 million. We know it's from the 500+ program. In the exposé, the Prime Minister, clearly under-informed, said that this programme would lead to an increase in the deficit by PLN 1.1.5 billion. What's the difference? I'm seriously asking that question, and I'm really asking for an answer. Let's hope it's not like Members of the Prime Minister's questions about the exposé. The Prime Minister said then, I quote: we will give you all the questions in writing and each of your Members who has asked the question will receive a written reply. Two months running, nothing, no answers. The impression remains that the Prime Minister is inexcusable. In replying to Members, including me, it is worth changing this impression. I suggest you give this attention to the Prime Minister. Sometimes a given word [[♪ The bell ♪]] More expensive money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u611	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz.15. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u612	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Projected costs of the PiS flag program, so-called 500+, they are, as economists estimate, about PLN 15.5 billion per year. The funding of the programme is to be generated by additional revenue from the so-called. sectoral taxes - from banks and supermarkets - income from dividends, increased VAT collection or elimination of the scope of VAT refund fraud. The estimated amounts of revenue are to cover this breach on the expenditure side. Minister, what will happen, however, if the proposed amount of revenue from the above mentioned sectoral taxes, estimated by IE NBP at PLN 10.3 billion, from dividends - 0.75 billion, increasing the deficit by PLN 1.5 billion, by reducing the scope of VAT recovery fraud by so-called. The VAT carousels won't come that high? From what sources will the difference be covered then? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there - and if so, what - a contingency plan to finance the costs of this project? Who will be charged these costs in practice? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u613	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u614	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have two questions about the planned revenue of the state budget for 2016. I expected, I'll admit, major changes in the draft budget on the revenue side. Many times government representatives have talked about the huge reserves that exist due to the lack of universality of its payment in the tax on goods and services. Contrary to these announcements, the government does not foresee an increase in the collection of this tax. Question: "Why?" Why doesn't he run those reserves? Why does he give up revenue estimated at about PLN 12 billion? The second question concerns the fossil tax that KGHM pays. I was expecting the excavation of the fossil tax. This was announced by the Prime Minister many times, on 22 December. In the draft budget law, the revenue from this tax remains, therefore, and the tax remains. What are the government's true intentions regarding the fossil tax? [[♪ The bell ♪]] and when will the decisions be taken on this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u615	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jerzy Jachnik, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u616	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have one brief question. Minister, could you answer the question of what is the planned increase of 300%, i.e. almost 35 million PLN, spending on the National Judicial Council, 8 million for the Ombudsman and almost 50 million for the National Election Office? I'd like an answer in writing. And the second question I have to ask you is why do you all have this 500+ pain for children? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u617	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u618	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are discussing a dangerous budget, broken on the income side, a document with creative accounting, a budget in which you add to Poles two new taxes: bank tax and tax on hypermarkets, Poles, because in the end they are Poles and Poles, a white and red team, as the Prime Minister likes to say, 100% They'll pay for it. They'll pay in the grocery bag and pay in fees for bank operations. Minister, the dreams and promises of the election must be based on good bills, on good, calculated bills, and you have a lot of promises, and very expensive ones. I don't think they're real. Isn't it better to show first, Minister, that you can make any money and then spend it? And finally, Lower Silesia asks: What happened to your election declarations abolishing the fossil tax? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u619	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u620	I ask you to answer in writing, because from the exposé from the Prime Minister, I can't wait to hear from you, and it's been 41 days. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u621	Mr Robert Winnicki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u622	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to ask the Minister to clarify this issue, which is fundamental: What are your plans for not only the budgetary assumptions for next year but also for the years to come? Will it be the doctrine of deficit, as Professor Żyżyński taught it, or will you gradually - maybe this is an accident working with this budget - aim for a balanced budget? The answer to this question is very important, crucial from the perspective of the future of Polish public finances, and it should be in this Chamber today. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also two more specific questions. Firstly, the amount of PLN 60 million for cooperation with Polonia and Poles abroad is very, very little. This is what a few days NATO summit in Poland costs. We believe that this amount should be raised, especially as we attach great importance [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the issue of repatriation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u623	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u624	And one last thing. What will be the cost of receiving immigrants in Poland? It wasn't included in the budget, and the government...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u625	Mr... Mr Michał Jaros from the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u626	...supports the decision of the Civic Platform. What will be the cost of our participation in the immigration policy of the European Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u627	Member Michał Jaros, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u628	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In the draft budget for 2016 nearly PLN 30 million are planned for the National Revalorisation Fund for Krakow's Monuments and nearly PLN 88 million for monuments in the rest of the country. I have a question, because the National Revalorisation Fund for Krakow's Monuments exists for more than 30 years and the Office of Sejm Analysis calculated that the amount allocated to revalorization of Krakow's monuments is almost PLN 1 billion: When will this fund finally be liquidated, when will the funds be earmarked for monuments throughout Poland and not just in Krakow? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But is it in Lower Silesia?]] Not just for the whole of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u629	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u630	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For 8 years you have witnessed a waste of money from a Polish taxpayer. However, after eight years of preparation for power, you have done nothing to put an end to the waste of public money. On the well-known waste map of the Civic Platform, which contains only 13 examples, there is a total of PLN 449 billion wasted. I have a question for you: What have you done not to create a map of the waste of law and justice? Which of these points do you want to prevent? I can help. It's not that hard. I propose, first of all, that we cut back the budget losses for increasing excise duties on tobacco and alcohol, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which amounted to PLN 1 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u631	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u632	Let's cut the excise duty, lower the taxes and increase the revenue to the budget, maybe we can...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u633	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u634	...to establish a balanced budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u635	Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u636	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I, too, am one of those Members who asked the Prime Minister's questions during the debate on the exposé, and so far has not received an answer to his questions, so I will return to one of the main questions for the parliamentarians from Lower Silesia. Well, on 6 October, Mrs Beata Szydło, when she was still running for Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, was in Lubin, and announced with no doubt the immediate abolition of the fossil tax in a situation in which PiS will take over the government. The government was taken over, the exposé was issued, the answer to the question about the fate of this tax was not received then, but the draft budget was submitted. The draft budget on the income side indicates a tax on fossils of more than PLN 1.5 billion. So I wanted to ask you, where is this promise that was made at the time? Where is this bill about which Mrs. Beata Szydło, then prime minister in spe, promised to the Lower Silesia and the likes? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Was that... [[In a blue file.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u637	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u638	Another empty promise? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u639	Thank you. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Club Kukiz 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u640	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel. Why does the budget bill include a sales plan by the Agricultural Property Agency 70,000? ha land from the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury? It was mentioned that the land owned by the State Treasury would not be sold but only leased. In the event of a violation of the law, I even expected the land to be redeemed by the Agricultural Property Agency. Explain the sale of the 70,000. ha land. The revenue planned in 2016 in the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury is 2,897,400 thousand, costs 1442 million. Why is half the planned revenue cost, and what does it generate? This situation makes it even more absurd to sell these 70,000. ha land. Within two years, this revenue money will be consumed by the maintenance costs of the offices. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u641	Thank you. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski, Club Kukiz 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u642	Mr. Marshal! Minister! My question is about the fossil tax. The revenue to the budget in 2015 amounted to PLN 1450 million, the planned revenue from this tax in 2015 is PLN 1530 million, i.e. more than 5.5% more than last year, actually this year, while the average price of copper per pound in 2015 is approx. 930 dollars... 930 zł, let's go to zloty, while now the price is set at 827, the minimum was 800 zł. KGHM's revenue in 2015 is 20 billion, revenues after 3 months this year - 14,8 billions. In the first quarter - 5200 million, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the second quarter - 4800 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u643	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u644	On the basis of which the assumption was made...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u645	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u646	...that we can get 1530 million from the fossil tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u647	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u648	Thank you. [[Applause]] Oh, please answer in writing. [[Mr. President, more faith, more faith.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u649	Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u650	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 2016 Budget Act carries a high risk, above all, of the growth of the planned deficit. The consequence may be an increase in its share of the gross domestic product above 3% required by European law. Moreover, an increase in fiscalism, or more taxes, is a burden for final consumers, whether they are clients of financial institutions or large-area shops. The economy may be affected by changes, and the implementation of populist electoral promises will primarily affect citizens. The question therefore arises as to whether the benefits of the selected social groups will cover the losses arising from possible economic problems in the country. And one more question I want to ask on behalf of local governments from the south of Poland managing road and bridge infrastructure, which is destroyed by floods. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u651	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u652	Have the flood relief funds been planned at a sufficiently high level in the next year's budget...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u653	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u654	...which will allow the track record to be completed up to the year 2010? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u655	Mrs Anna Siarkowska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u656	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're gonna spend not less than 2% on national defense. GDP. Has this statutory requirement been preserved? Line two. The Minister of National Defence declared that the territorial defence companies would be set up next year. Did the government plan any budget resources to build territorial defence? Here's another thing. The draft budget law for 2016 provides for the allocation of over PLN 35 billion to national defence. Of this amount, approximately 28 billion are planned to be spent on the Armed Forces, over 6.5 billion PLN will be spent on pensions. Please answer: Are these pensions financed by the statutory 2% GDP earmarked for national defence? Let us finally break up with the practice of qualifying expenditure, which is still increasing pension costs charged to the budget [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister for National Defence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u657	Thank you. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform. There's no envoy? There isn't. Mr Jarosław Porwich, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u658	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Expenditure planned in the 2016 draft budget for the operation of the National Election Office was estimated at almost 91 million PLN, which represents 176.6% in relation to the current year. Question: "Why does the CWB's budget almost double in the non-election year compared to the election year budget?" And then there's the second line. The northern part of Lubuskie voivodship with its capital, Gorzów Wielkopolski, is very poorly connected with the capital and larger cities of our country. Question: "Is there money in the 2016 budget for the modernisation and electrification of the railway link on the Kostrzyn-Oder route? If yes, what is the amount and if not, then why? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u659	Thank you. Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u660	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! While budget expenditure can be estimated quite precisely, on the revenue side, the issue is already more complicated, hence my question. On what basis does the government assume that the bank tax will bring exactly PLN 5 billion to the budget and that the tax on large-scale shops will amount to PLN 2 billion? Is the government aware that both banks and large retail networks can find a way to optimise the burden and, as a result, the introduction of new danins can bring lower revenues than the government expects? Is the government aware that the new taxes imposed on banks and shops mean de facto rising prices and hitting Poles in their pockets? And the question about the planned bank tax itself. Is it true that, like Hungary, the banking tax will cover a wider spectrum of financial institutions, including SKOKs, insurance companies and cooperative banks, and is it true that the Bank of National Holdings would be excluded from this tax? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u661	Thank you. Mr Ireneusz Nagroda, Club Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u662	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you about the 2014-2023 national road construction programme. I would like to ask if it is true that the value of the tasks included in this programme, prepared by the Government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, is understated by about 30% ? If so, I would like to ask what the government intends to do to finance the implementation of this programme, so that the construction industry, road companies, do not face another wave of bankruptcy. And second question. The Law on Free Legal Assistance shall enter into force on 1 January 2016. Please tell me what amount has been allocated to the 2016 budget for the implementation of this programme, because I did not find it in the budget, Minister. If this amount is not available, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the government planning to...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u663	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u664	...covering in full the costs of implementing this programme by local authorities? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u665	Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u666	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The government prime minister Beata Szydło, increasing budget expenditure, emphasizes every step of the way whether he declares an increase in tax collection efficiency. My question is this. What instruments does the government intend to equip the tax authorities with to improve and achieve the intended budgetary targets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u667	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Romecki, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u668	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I can easily point out to the government a budget position where millions can be saved. Moreover, I am able to prove that Poles do not want this budget line. We can save a lot of money and start with each other. Title of this item: grants and subsidies to political parties. The amount to be recovered is PLN 138 million. I don't think it's necessary to convince anyone. The money from the state budget for political parties is mainly spent on octopus, dividing, disarraying society, silly TV spots and political aggressions in the style of Mordo you my. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] To make it interesting, multimillion-dollar subsidies will be given to the parties that received at least 3% Votes in the election, and they didn't enter the Sejm. It's hard to say otherwise. [[♪ The bell ♪]] than compensation for losers or a political disability premium. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And I'll remind you...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u669	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u670	...that there is a group in the Polish Sejm that did not benefit from this grant. This is Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u671	Ms Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u672	So I'm asking when the government will remove this unwanted position from the budget. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u673	Thank you very much, sir. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u674	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question. In view of the draft 2016 budget presented, please explain the draft expenditure: medicines for people aged 75 years or over. It is true that the Prime Minister did not have time to present the regulations on this matter, but the funds are already reserved. Great! That's the sum of 125 million. When you look at the amount earmarked for this purpose, there are doubts. During the campaign, the Prime Minister said that it would be money for free medicines for seniors who were 75 years old. I would like to remind you that according to various assessments, medicines for seniors after 75 years of age are an expense of PLN 3 and 4 billion, and the funds reserved, as I said, is the amount of PLN 125 million. Let's just say a bunch of seniors over the age of 75 are counting. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 2.7 million people...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u675	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u676	...so he goes out for 46 zlotys a year for every senior. And here's the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u677	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u678	For which seniors over 75 years of age are these funds allocated? What medications can seniors buy...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u679	Mrs Magdalena Błeńska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u680	I'm done, Mr. Marshal. ...for the amount of PLN 46 per year...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u681	Madam President, you are definitely using your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u682	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u683	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u684	...when the drugs were guaranteed for everyone? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u685	Mrs Magdalena Błeńska, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u686	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For 2016 more than PLN 12 million was foreseen for checks and prizes in public management positions. It is more than twice as high as in 2015; it was then 5.5 million PLN. You have introduced a 70% check-in tax in State Treasury companies, and now you are doubling the provision for awards and check-ins in state executive positions. Why this double increase in reward and check-in expenses? I also have a question about the appropriateness of saving PLN 42 million in the budget for the operation of the Polish Tourist Organization, in short POT - already by name something smells ugly. There are free trips for activists in her statue. Is this an expense necessary for the planned record deficit? We know that this is another expense that will cost future generations. That's all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u687	Thank you. Ms Anna Wasilewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u688	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On 30 November, the President sent another draft law on the reduction of retirement age to the Sejm, on 9 December, the first reading of the draft was held at the Sejm meeting, after which the document was sent to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. The Commission addressed this proposal on 15 December and requested a public hearing to be held in January. However, the draft budget law assumes that the budget grants to the Social Insurance Fund will amount to 44 847 768 000 next year. - as much as was secured in the September project. Does this mean that the government presumed that the presidential pension bill would go to the trash? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u689	Thank you. Mr Blazej Parda, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u690	Mr. Marshal! High House! Part 32: Agriculture, Chapter 01026: Aid for agricultural and livestock insurance. Plan - PLN 100 million. The question is, where is this 100 million PLN, when we really spend about 160 million PLN on these grants. Moreover, a few months ago, funding was increased from 50 to 65% of the insurance amount and fruit and vegetable producers were included in the insurance. So we're probably going to spend about PLN 200 million on these subsidies, and we're going to write down 100 in the plan. Does this mean that half of the farmers won't get these subsidies, or are those budget entries just to keep us from freaking out that a real budget hole is going to be a black hole in the big ego galaxy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u691	Mr Tomasz Kostus, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u692	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The analysis available shows that an increase in the tax-free amount will result in a significant decrease in the revenue of local government units. If the project submitted by President Andrzej Duda were to enter into force, the revenues of local governments would fall by as much as PLN 7.8 billion. Where in the budget do you expect compensation for this loss? How will you guarantee that Polish local governments will have income adequate to their needs, especially those of investment? And second question: How much will the revenue of the state budget increase precisely as a result of increased tax collection, including in particular VAT? What is the budget plan B if it turns out that the implementation of the recovery plan is, however, more difficult than you expect? And finally, like my previous speakers, [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more time...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u693	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u694	...please answer the questions asked earlier - since the first meeting of the Sejm, since November this year. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u695	Ms Agnieszka Chasing, Kukiz Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u696	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Law and Justice Programme recognises the need to develop and strengthen the central role of the Civil Initiative Fund and local and regional funds for citizens' initiatives, but again in this budget, another year we have only 60 million, nothing has changed since previous years. Let me just add that this is one-tenth of the needs that NGOs report each year. Non-governmental organisations that are better able to solve - very often behind the state, for administration - social problems affecting families, local communities, young people and other matters. NGOs that do this cheaper because they use volunteers and NGOs who know better about the needs of the local environment because they are close to these needs. Can't the government from inefficient administration, e.g. Work offices, move 30 million to support the actions that it affects every year... Needs are 300 million. I would add that NGOs also want to participate in the absorption of EU funds; they can increase this money if we give them their own contribution. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u697	Thank you, Member. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u698	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, I'm in favour of the 500+ programme for children, because that's why you won the election. Among other things, you do what you do here. But I'm for it when you have some revenue, and here the banks are laughing because you know what they're gonna do. Large stores like this - you know what they're gonna do. I'd like to ask you a question, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Please ask them.]] The monastery - a reservoir of 2000 ha - is designed to protect Kalisz from flooding. Is she in the budget or isn't she in the budget? Indemnities for farmers in relation to pigs. If there is such height and style as the Minister of Agriculture has proposed, there will be no 7 million imports, only 17 million and a bluff, and a shame for the whole of Europe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So the budget...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u699	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u700	Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u701	Mr Piotr Apel, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u702	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Folk wisdom says, "A penny for a penny, and there will be a coconut." I like that proverb very much. I mean 10 million PLN, but the budget of the National Radio and Television Council is going to increase. When I count, it's about 70,000. PLN per employee. I would like to ask you why this increase in the budget of a budget unit whose competences are to be limited, because this is what the provisions of the media law say. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u703	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u704	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the Ministry of Finance's forecasts, the public finance deficit may rise above 3% GDP. This raises the greatest concerns of experts. And the question is: Isn't the government worried that the deficit will be bigger and there will be problems with the excessive deficit procedure? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u705	Thank you. Mrs Małgorzata Zwierzan, Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u706	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the budget, we have programs called "Senior - WIGOR" or "ASOS" or "OWOSiM." These are all programs with institutions for the elderly, but - attention - only daily stay. Sometimes there are three in one municipality, and then there's an environmental self-help home. The number of staff employed in these establishments is often much higher than the number of residents of these establishments. In Poland there is no funds for care services in homes for older people. They are now being sent to social services homes and paid 2,500 extras. PLN per month. Shouldn't the government consider transferring these funds to care services aimed at the elderly in their homes? This is a real need for older people and their families. This is not what the communes for which it has been ceded are able to cope. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u707	Thank you very much, Member. Now Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u708	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The increased budget deficit, which you do not exclude and will certainly be implemented, means a higher profitability of the Polish debt on the market. Therefore, please answer the question: Why didn't you predict spending related to the greater cost of servicing Polish debt in the budget? What are you going to finance this cost or another loan? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u709	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Suski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u710	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 2016 budget in the State defence section is basically presented unchanged, as prepared by Minister Tomasz Siemoniak. It could be said that this is very good, but unfortunately there is no logic in the proceedings of the Law and Justice Minister Macierewicz. In the PiS campaign, it initially supported an army funding rate of 2% GDP. Then he lied to the voters that it was necessary to increase the funding of the Armed Forces to up to 3% that about Jarosław Gowin, the future Minister of Defense, not to mention. You told the Poles that you would increase the expenditure on modernization of the army from 20% to 25%. So? In the around budget bill you took over PLN 209 million from the army. And for what? It's about buying coal stored in coal company mines. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about buying helicopters, canceling our bid?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u711	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u712	You're going to create a territorial defense. For what? What about your idea...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u713	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u714	...enhancing the army's numbers? Many such things remain unanswered in the budget law itself, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u715	Mr Ireneus Raś, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u716	Lies, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, do not become true simply because more people believe in them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u717	Sir, please...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u718	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have a request to the Minister of Finance to increase the funding for part 40 of the state budget, i.e. tourism. We are not talking much about tourism, and I am constantly trying to remind you that during the years of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, GDP from tourism increased from 4.5% up to 8%. It is worth going this way, strengthening tourist products. This is a small amount, this is today 50 million PLN in the budget. Adding a little bit to this budget will make you... [[That's more than it was.]] Of course more, but we can keep going this way dynamically and get the money, not as panicky looking as you are looking for it, where you won't find it. The Polish economy needs to be supported. I am asking for tourism here because there are a lot of places like this, but you can't find the money where it is, and you're looking where you're going to have to update the budget later. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Remember the budget?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u719	Thank you very much. Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform. [[We've been increasing it all along.]] Mr. President, please don't drive...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u720	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Forget about tourism.]] I have two questions, one regional, the other... [[Please note that I said to the Member, "Remember tourism."]] [[Voice from the room: Minister.]] Can you please finish and can I continue, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u721	Allow me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u722	The first regional question and the second question concerning the general budget and the national situation. One of your fellow Members, now the Minister of Infrastructure, made a regional amendment to practically every budget, which I even once supported in the coalition, contrary to the club's decision, regarding the construction of the two-lane road No. 94 and the northern ring road of Krakow. I hope that this amendment, already made by the Minister, will be in force in this new budget at the moment. The voters of Olkuskie County and Kraków District are waiting for this. My second question concerns the amount of funding [[♪ The bell ♪]] medicines for seniors.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u723	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u724	I agree, we all want these medicines to be co-financed, but not at the expense of not treating children after transplants and not treating infertility in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u725	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u726	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Minister, also using the fact that, I hope, representatives of the Ministry of Sport are also in the Chamber today, about strategic sports investments and promised skating track in Warsaw, when it comes to Stegna. I have such a question: Is there and what amount is allocated in the 2016 budget for this investment so much expected? We all remember the great successes of our masters and also the promises related to the implementation of this investment. Besides, the city of Warsaw is ready for this investment. So that I would like to know if this investment is planned and what amount will be allocated in 2016. Thank you very much. [[What about the jumper, Mr. Buddy? What about the jumper?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u727	Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u728	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm joining the other calls of parliamentarians who... [[But it's 160. We want you to...]] ...they are looking forward to answering the questions that the Prime Minister asked during the exposé. [[You will remind me, sir.]] It's bad if the Prime Minister doesn't keep his word, it's very bad, but it's worse when the Prime Minister breaks the law, because according to the Act on the execution of the mandate of a Member and a Senator... [[You're gonna tell your friend.]] [[Eva Kopacz, please say it.]] ...anyone to whom a parliamentarian turns, each office has a duty to answer within 14 days. [[Applause]] It's bad for the Prime Minister to break the law, and worse for the president to break the law. And be careful, because the country where the Prime Minister and the President break the law is very quickly in chaos. And the question will be about the National Roads and Motorways programme. Why doesn't PiS like highways and highways? [[Voice from the room: Why do you not like Poland?]] I know you can't build, you've built 15 kilometers in two years... [[Five, four, three, two, one...]] ...but why do you want to take away the Poles? [[♪ The bell ♪]] those roads they may have and which are already planned?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u729	Thank you, sir. [[Bravo, sir, bravo!]] In this we have exhausted the list of Members of the Committee for Questions. Now we're gonna listen to the answers. Mr Paweł Szalamach, Minister of Finance, is the first to answer. You're welcome, Minister. I understand that most of the answers will be in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u730	Yes, most of the answers will be in writing. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I'll try to answer some of these questions, or rather their main blocks. or the main issues, the problems raised in them. Of course, the first issue is the pace of implementation of our programme and the distribution of these announcements over the coming years. We've been selected for four years, we've been operating for a few weeks. It's difficult for these four weeks to change what seems to have grown over 400 weeks, eight years of government of the previous coalition. [[The voice from the hall: She didn't promise.]] As a result, we have submitted this change to meet our basic goal in 2016. You will allow us to account with our voters when a higher tax-free amount is introduced and when the other announcements are implemented - at a rate that we will consider reasonable. [[Voice from the room: January 1st.]] This is part, let's call it political, but there was also a discussion about the macroeconomic assumptions of the draft budget law and, above all, how reliable it is to assume the growth rate of gross domestic product and the rate of inflation. I understand that part of the room, the previous party governing the assumption of 3,8% respectively and 1.7% They didn't bother you until three months ago, but there was an expected change of places, and they started to get tense, and they started to be unbelievable. I would ask you to have some intellectual openness to discuss this issue. In the case of gross domestic product, I am convinced that we will achieve the pace of growth. 3.8%. At the time of rule of Law and Justice, in the second year of rule, this was more than 6%. We left the economy in very good condition. After the next few years there was a slowdown, a global crisis. We're aware of that, and we understand that. 3.8 is a fully real, realistic forecast. I have, of course, shared my doubts with you, with an acceptable difference of opinion as to how sensitive the inflation forecast is to phenomena that we have no influence on. We have no influence on the main factor that causes inflation, which everyone will agree to. This is the price of oil and liquid fuels, which translates into the prices of almost all retail goods. In this respect, the influence of the Government of Law and Justice is, I would say, almost none. As for the level or limit of the deficit of PLN 54 billion and the risks associated with exceeding it, discussing, threatening, in a way, the creation of black scenarios by Mr Neumann, to a lesser extent by Mr Cichoń, I am able to guarantee that the deficit for 2016 will not exceed PLN 54 billion, and I am able to bet on it - that is, of course, an intellectual dispute, but I am able to settle it - the most normally in the world my own money. I propose to Mr Neumann, who is not here, - if this deficit exceeds it, I pay 10 000. PLN for the state budget. [[Applause]] [[A hundred! How about a hundred?]] If he's gonna... [[We'll hold you to that.]] ...as we have announced, this amount will be paid by Mr Neumann for the state budget. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I'm waiting for an answer. As for this amount, I'm sure, but I'm also willing to take responsibility with my own money. [[A serious minister...]] [[Voice from the room: It's going to be great.]] There's been a number of problems here. whether the issue of financing the 500+ programme. And I don't think it's any secret to anyone following this issue, any discovery that funding for 2016 is relatively secure. My fundamental challenge, my primary task - I don't think that's a controversial statement - is to repair, rebuild the state's tax revenues so that this programme will be financed in the years to come. And everyone knows - this task can be solved, seems, in the 2nd or 3rd grade of primary school - about which we talk about the amounts of increased tax revenues in 2017 and 2018. This is my job and my deputies. Minimum PLN 15 billion. Of course, we stand before this, we will present to the public the document we are working on, a document which we have been working to call a strategy for rebuilding the tax revenue of the Republic of Poland. He will contain detailed solutions, among them some of which you have mentioned or asked here. There was a question, for example, about the anti-law clause on the part of the Member from the left-hand side of the room, Mrs Stępień. Of course, we're going to bring it in. This tool will be designed to take into account, I would say, legitimate interests of honest taxpayers, and to give them legal comfort in running their business. This tool will be the responsibility of not so many officials as a government official as the Minister of Finance. They're not gonna use the IRS. There will be a list such as that in the UK, a black list of tax optimizations, which we presume to call into question the tax authorities, with a recommendation that the auditors examining the company's financial statements make it mandatory to include reservations in case such practices are applied by the audited entities. This will all be in the Seym in the first place. As I say, our priority is to prepare the budget with the 500+ programme and then these systemic actions. We gain a few months' breath, of course. Political, ideological, academic debate on debt, debt management, debt management, whether it is an acceptable form of public spending financing, or something that should be avoided and eliminated at all costs. There have also been several attempts to compare the role of finance minister to the company's president. Perhaps this is a unreliable analogy, in my opinion, but in this spirit I will say: it is the same as in the company's decision to finance itself with equity or debt. This depends on the amount of this debt to the gross domestic product and the ability of the company or the State to handle it. With low interest rates, and that's what we've got lately, over the last few years or months, getting money from the outside, if this cost is low and kept in check, it's not reprehensible. Of course, when these proportions exceed the capacity to service the State or are potential sensitivity during a period of economic slowdown, it is beginning to be a problem. It is a matter of art or the ability to manage this sphere, as it manages this sphere of management of the company, which also... I think there's an agreement on that. The exception is a company which is financed only by equity and only by own funds. It's natural to be in debt. There is a question of what are the conditions and the price of the money raised. That's why I don't have it, I'd say, an ideological approach like that. It should be kept in check, taken care of such risks, such as exposure to foreign currency and debt in foreign currency, to who owns this debt, because here it was It is also clear that there are countries that are somewhat indebted to themselves. That's the example. Japan or Italy, for example, where a percentage of the savings of citizens located in Italian government bonds remain paid to them. Therefore, they are not as exposed to negative phenomena, negative external shocks as in the case of Poland. Several times, the issue of spending by state authorities has been raised in the discussion. A large number of Members, who are already Members of the next term of office, know that a number of bodies have a legal privilege. This privilege is enjoyed by the chief bodies of the Sejm, Senate, President, NIK, etc., etc. They directly enter their expenditure expectations into the draft budget. For all other ministries, these amounts are the result of discussions, negotiations, dragging lines of industry ministries with the Minister of Finance. It is a long and stressful task, but in the case of the President's Office, NIK they directly enter them. And we see this dynamic. An example was given by the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, which entered the same amount as in the previous year, but of course these examples here were different in the case of, for example, the National Council of Courts or the Ombudsman. This is a matter of the House. I here, the government has nothing, no power to trim, it may already be the amendments tabled in the Sejm. Self-governments and program 500+. In fact, I don't see the problem of compensating local governments for the costs of this programme. I think it's a complete misunderstanding of the case, because local governments are gonna pay for making decisions related to this program, they're gonna normally charge money. In fact, due to some of their tasks related to social construction, for example, such an ambitious spending programme and family allowances helped them to take off some of their expenses for this reason. Therefore, they will be de facto under this programme, I believe, beneficiaries. One last small question. There is no complete understanding in me of the decision made by the former Minister of Health, Minister Zembala, regarding haemophiliacs. The unprotected funding for the treatment of haemophiliacs in the second half of next year and the attempt to transfer it to the National Health Fund without guaranteeing money in the National Health Fund was a similar mechanism to negotiations with nurses about their increases, also offering these benefits out of their pockets or from the budget of someone else who was not affected by the former health minister. Minister Radziwiłł at the last minute, just before the budget work was completed, this error was caught and we simply had to secure it at the very end of the budget work. Thank you for the other questions. We will try to answer them in writing in cases where there was such a request, but also to others that I did not answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u731	Thank you very much. The answer will be given to the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska. Please, Minister, but I also understand that most of the answers will be in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u732	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Two questions were addressed to the Ministry of National Education. Short, equally short answers. First question: Why does the government save money on home education? Anyone who has participated in the debate on the contract-named act on six-year-olds knows that we are proposing the most liberal solutions that allow parents to decide what happens to their children when, among other things, their children. They'll go to school and how they'll be educated. Therefore, it is hard to suspect that the government is saving on home education. Therefore, this does not result in any savings in the state budget. On the other hand, we really want to discuss not only the education system in general - and we also invite Members to this debate - but we want to discuss the way in which education is financed, because we have the impression that a lot of weight - this is what we are talking about - is no longer congruent to reality. I would remind you that we had only two weeks to analyze the educational grant, and that all we had to do was seal what was evidently showing irregularities. I would just like to say, for example, that when it comes to domestic teaching, there was an explosion in 2015 of domestic education in non-public education. And so there are cases where in localities and communities of 5,000 inhabitants 900 people are included in home schooling. That's a lot of irregularities. To analyze, it takes a little more time, so we invited everyone concerned that something bad was going to happen, to talk. There will be meetings and together we will figure out how to pay for what needs to be paid, for extracurricular activities and for grading exams. And a very short answer to the question of whether there are secure places in kindergartens, whether the government assumes additional funding for local governments for pre-school education. Yes, there are secure places in kindergartens. Yes, the government assumes additional funding for pre-school education, which is why we have reduced the subsidy by a minimum of 86 million in order to transfer it to the special reserve. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u733	Thank you very much, Minister. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Jarosław Sellin, now responds. You're welcome. Are you the Minister? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u734	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were three questions about the budget of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski asked for a reduction in the cost of theatres in the 2016 budget. I would like to inform you that in 2015 the budget for the theatres amounted to PLN 175.5 million, while in 2016 there is a forecast of PLN 171 million. This is actually a few million less, but I would like to point out that 2015 was an absolute year when it comes to Polish theater, extraordinary, because it was the year of celebration of the 250th anniversary of the National Theatre. The first National Theatre was founded in 1765, in the first year of the reign of Stanisław August Poniatowski, and there was really much money spent on these celebrations. Therefore, this budget for the theatres in 2015 was extremely high, so that it is not a significant loss of theatrical expenditure in 2016. I would also like to inform you that we are about to start recruiting applications for European funds at the disposal of the Minister for Culture and National Heritage. This is a serious amount reaching almost EUR 0.5 billion, 460 million, for the 2014-2020 budget perspective, and we would very much like to see a lot of proposals from Polish local theatres and national theatres submitted in this selection. Miss Mirosława Nykiel asked about the various special-purpose funds and the administrative costs of these funds. At the disposal of the Minister of Culture and National Heritage, there is one such fund, the Culture Promotion Fund. This is the fund to which money flows from the love of Poles to gambling, which is a copy of the Totalizator Sports. I inform you that all the money, and in 2016 we predict that it will be PLN 168.5 million, for the zloty are spent on culture, because the operation of this fund is run by the administration of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. From this money, from the Cultural Promotion Fund, and the gold doesn't go to service. And finally, Mr. Michael Jaros. Although this was not a question about our ministerial budget, it concerned an important issue which the Ministry is interested in - PLN 30 million annually in the budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Republic devoted to the Social Committee for the Reconstruction of the Monuments of Krakow. Often the discussion on this subject has already erupted in this Chamber. We believe that it is just one of Polish good traditions, that such a fixed budget is that Kraków, the monuments of Krakow thanks to it are reborn, that Kraków is beautiful. Such good traditions should not be eliminated. We have an example from the times of the Platform's rule of destruction of another good tradition, namely the funding of the Polish Senate for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The destruction of this tradition ended badly for the Polish budget. So that we offer such good traditions, which have already been established for twenty years in the form of a fund for reconstruction of the monuments of Krakow, in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic to preserve. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u735	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Krzysztof Michałkiewicz will now reply to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister, in the face of the chatter in the courtroom, may I suggest a written reply. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. And will you also respond in writing to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport and Tourism Jarosław Stawiarski? [[In writing, in writing.]] Yes. Thank you very much, Minister. This concludes the discussion. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the draft 2016 government budget law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 04 hours 22 min 11]] I'm reopening the session. I ask Members to take their seats. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The application is printing number 160. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law amending the Radio and Television Act (Print No 158). At the meeting of the Senior Convention, opposition to the completion of the agenda was raised. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of [[Mr Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: What is it?]] The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The formal proposal was made by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, a modern club. Two minutes on request.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u736	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I shall apply for a formal application from the Article. Paragraph 184. 1 for deferment to 16 today's proceedings on the media law. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I see you are. It's very difficult to be politically correct in a situation where the PiS step by step, piece by piece, smashing our country apart. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Wow!]] You write in your bill, you talk about national media. National may be a museum, national may be a gallery. The media should be public and civic. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Civic was the Platform, and what's left?]] I would like to return to the words that came out here today on this Parliamentary speaker, which Prime Minister Beata Szydło said. She said, "How will you look your families in the eye?" I'm the one asking you how you're gonna look your families and citizens in the eye... [[Voice from the room: Through the TV.]] ...you who received a very generous briefing in 2009. Mr Czabański, who is the author of this bill, received about 400,000. check-in, 400,000. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Voice from the room: Impossible.]] How will you look your citizens in the eye? You're talking about taking care of the poor? Therefore, I ask you to postpone this sitting and to proceed with the media law on 16 January. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u737	Please. The formal proposal was made by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, a modern club. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: Another? Is there a secretary out there?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u738	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's late. I am filing a formal motion to refer the bill to the cultural committee. [[Voice from the room: Not right now.]] The bill wasn't read. Madam President promised us that this would happen. I'd like to say one more sentence. There's no room for sleep in this reality. It becomes an exclusive and somewhat anachronistic good. I wish you all the best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u739	The formal proposal was made by Michał Stasiński, a modern club. [[Voice from the Chamber: Votes.]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska: But what is it, huh?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u740	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (1) shall be formally requested to close the sitting after the votes. [[Oh, what the hell! Why?]] A multi-monthly consultation of a project that favours your creative associations, such as SDP, the intense work of four media professionals from the Law and Justice is fruiting, one must admit, a simple and little finesse project for jumping to the stools. What happens on TV at hours. 23 that we have to proceed with the Public Media Act? It's on fire. [[You're an envoy.]] Journalists take cameras, microphones, computers. Or is TVP Info planning an assassination attempt on government independence? Can't you just put up with substantive criticism? [[Joy in the Chamber]] I understand you want us to wake up on January 1st in the dream world of the PiS. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] This is a scary world. [[Voice from the room: For you.]] The Sejm will vote, the faithful servants will listen, the devoted prosecutor will prosecute, the available judge will convict, and your public television will show it. [[Applause]] What a perfect model of a righteous and just state. I move that the sitting be closed after the vote. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You're not afraid.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u741	Thank you. Mr Rafał Grupiński, the Civic Platform Club, also has a formal proposal. [[It's against the law.]] I'm sorry. [[Voices from the room: Raphael!]] [[Voice from the room: What's this?]] The vote against this proposal, to Mr Stasiński's request, yes? [[A vote against, yes.]] There you go, vote no.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u742	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to put forward a vote against those proposals which were submitted concerning the deferral of the first reading of the draft media law, so-called. media law. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of public media, which should be objective media, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Not the media that's involved... [[Nationals.]] ...very strongly in a political dispute in Poland, [[Applause]] This is a matter, High Izbo, first class for Polish democracy. There is no well-functioning democracy without well-functioning objective public media. [[Applause]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: That's right, that's right.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And I understand that the opposition today depends on reversing these changes, the necessary changes in public media, because for just two more weeks, it wants a tube where it will unwarrantedly cause... [[Yes, sir.]] ...negative social emotions, negative, unwarranted social emotions, inspiring fear among citizens, unjustified fear. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! These public media, which should be objective media, are the media, where the leader of one of the opposition parties - I am talking about Mr Petru - has been in the media for six hours in the last month, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] and the President of the Republic, who at that time was... [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: In China.]] ...the main character of many important events in our country, could be presented in these media only for 14 minutes. [[Applause]] These are objective, these are, in your opinion, objective public media. These public media need urgent healing... [[This is an outrage.]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: Crime.]] ...and urgently bring about a situation when they're... [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] ...media that serve citizens, not serve them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] only the interests of one or two opposition parties and serve to cause confusion in Poland. That's why...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u743	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u744	...Mr. Marshal, I ask that these proposals be voted out, rejected and proceed immediately to the procedure for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u745	Thank you. Mr Rafał Grupiński with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u746	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope that Mr Sasin did not anticipate my formal proposal and did not reject it in advance. I would like to submit a request under the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for a recess and a re-election of the Seniors Convention in connection with your attempt to push through a law that will remove public media. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Mr Breakfast, don't laugh so much. [[Joy in the Chamber]] 'cause we're talking about serious things right now, about democracy that should lead public media. [[About propaganda.]] Mr Sasin spoke beautifully here about the objectivity of public media. [[I think he was right.]] Mr President, you keep saying words that mean less and less and less in fact call what you are saying. [[Applause]] You're putting up with... You take away the National Radio and Television Council's influence on competitions, eliminate competitions, take away the influence of the constitutional body in this act on the protection of freedom of information and freedom of expression, what the National Radio and Television Council is guarding. You're shutting down this bill. You seem to be acting like President Kaczyński, to whom, as you shouted at us... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ... thieves, thieves, I approached and asked if the president really thought I was a thief. The president nodded three times that he did. Those are your words. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Yes? [[Voice from the room: The melioration bill.]] And where's your Catholicism, and where's your Catholicism, pissants? [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, what is this?]] Where's your Christianity? Are you moaning? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Time!]] You will weep for yourselves and for what you have done while your children reproach you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] what you did with free media in Poland. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u747	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u748	Mr. Marshal, I expect the Senior Convention to be convened on this matter. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u749	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u750	Let me remind you that in 1996... [[Voice from the room: Don't scare.]] [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u751	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u752	...in defense of editors who today fill most of the so-called. Insubordinate media... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] [[Please leave...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u753	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u754	... Mr Semoniak and I resigned to defend freedom of speech on television. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u755	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u756	And how do you treat the media, how do you treat the media?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u757	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u758	Just as a loot. Loot, just loot... [[Long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u759	Well, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u760	...financial first and foremost.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u761	...from these proposals which have been made, in fact, only the motion to close the sitting in the votes is included in the formal conclusions. We are about to vote on a motion to postpone because the Seniors Convention has been convened. It has been tabled, as I said, the opposition, we will vote and this is what Mr Grupinski has requested and the proposal by Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. Then we'll proceed... Therefore, I do not accept the objection because this proposal is without object. We proceed with the motion to close the sitting after the votes because such a conclusion has been made and in accordance with the Rule. 184 this application is admissible. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to close the sitting after the vote will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Hey, what's wrong with you guys?]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 177 voted against - 250, 12 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. [[Applause]] On the other hand, I inform Mr Stasiński that his request for... excuse me, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, that the motion to refer the bill to the cultural committee... The situation is as follows. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be able to propose this proposal if the Sejm agrees that the first reading should take place in plenary of the Sejm, because according to the article... [[But not necessarily.]] Which we're about to decide if it will be. ...because according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm the scope of those amendments, which are set out in the Act on Radiophony and Television, includes the jurisdiction of the public authorities. And according to your mouth. Article 2 37 The first reading should take place at a meeting of the Sejm, when changes regulate the system and jurisdiction of the public authorities. As a result, the Legislative Bureau recommended the first reading not on the committee... [[Only at night.]] ...because I had such an idea, such a thought to direct to the committee, but still at the session of the Sejm. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: Always at night.]] Therefore, we must object to this opposition at the Senior Convention... which must be addressed by the entire High House. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the Parliamentary bill amending the Act on Radio and Television, print No 158, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 233 Members voted against - 171, 38 Members abstained. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the parliamentary bill on tax on certain financial institutions. The additional report from the committee for printing 149-A... sorry, it's printing 149-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Wiesław Janczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u762	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, an additional report by the Finance Committee on the draft tax law for certain financial institutions in print No 75. The additional report, taking into account the work on the amendments tabled at second reading, is included in print No 149-A. Ten amendments were submitted to the committee for consideration after second reading. From this, amendments 2, 3, 4 and 7 received a positive opinion from the Committee on Public Finance. The remaining amendments are proposed by the committee to reject. We will also vote on three minority proposals. All the committee's opinion was negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u763	There you go. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft Print Act 149. The Commission also presents minority proposals and the additional report of amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 3 applicants propose to amend their referrals. Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 8 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. The vote was 41 against - 270, with 130 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add paragraph. Article 5a 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The consequence of this amendment will be an amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd amendment, with the consequence, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 438 Members voted against - 1 and 2 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to add a new paragraph in Article. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 438 Members voted in favour, no one voted against, four Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to add a new paragraph in Article. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The outcome of the adoption of this amendment will be the unobjectability of the 5th amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 312 Members voted against - 1 Member - 129 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. 5. The amendment has become unobtrusive. In the 6th Amendment, applicants propose to add a new paragraph in Article. 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 206 Members voted against - 233 Members, with three abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. 7 applicants propose that the tax be 0.0366% the tax base per month. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. The consequence of the adoption of this amendment will be the unobjectity of the 1st minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. There were 267 Members voted against - 156, 19 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the second minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 13. The consequence of adopting this minority proposal will be that the 9th amendment is not relevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 155 Members voted against - 284 and three Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion for a minority accepted... Sorry, he turned it down. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In that case, we are voting on Amendment 9, in which the applicants propose to add point 5 in Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1h of the Corporate Income Tax Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 156 Members voted against - 268 Members and 18 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 15a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 177 Members voted against - 262, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. 16 applicants propose that the law enter into force on the 1st day of the month following the end of the month following the date of publication. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 157 Members voted against - 282 Members and 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 149, along with the amendments adopted, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[A reckless negation, as always.]] 442 Members voted. 284 Members voted against - 157, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has passed a tax law on certain financial institutions. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the law on the system of education and certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 148-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Marzena Machalek to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u764	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present an additional report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the draft law amending the Education System Act and some other laws in print No 106. The additional report submitted is printing No 148-A. At its meeting on 29 December 2005, the Sejm re-directed the draft law in print No 148 to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Joint Committees: Education, Science and Youth and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 29 December 2015, recommend: 1st amendment to accept, 2nd amendment to reject, 3rd amendment to reject, 4th amendment to accept, 5th adopt, 6th adopt, 7th adopt, 8th adopt and 9th adopt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u765	There you go. And thank you, Member. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 148. The committees also present a proposal to reject the draft law in its entirety, amendments and minority proposals, on which the Sejm will vote first. Minority application No 8 was withdrawn by applicants. I will now put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. In order to ask questions, Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer from the Modern Club and Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska from the Civic Platform Club came forward. Time - 1 minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u766	Ladies and gentlemen! It was never a good idea to act as part of populism and implement empty electoral promises. The reform proposed by you is not a good change for Poland. It is intended to show that the state is quickly, although not necessarily well, implementing the programme announced in the elections. This is a realization at the expense of the future of Polish children. Haven't you considered putting off this good change by one year, spreading out to introduce new programs, new textbooks, preparing kindergartens to find a place for 3-year-olds? Have you not wondered that it is worth a broad public debate on what Polish education should look like in the future? Isn't it sometimes worth stopping in this race and making just one move - giving parents six-year-olds a choice so they don't have to, if they don't want to, send their kids to school? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u767	Thank you. The question is asked by Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u768	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the Prime Minister: Why didn't the Prime Minister take responsibility for this project? Why isn't this project a government project? This is a project that will involve several million children... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Poland is the most important.]] ...and because it's written very quickly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the knee, in fact, this project results in a lot of threats that everyone, but above all schools and children in schools, will face as early as 1 September. I do not know if the Prime Minister realises that this project is the most difficult, this bill will be the most difficult for children from dysfunctional families, for children from those families, where access to education or access to culture is the most difficult. It is also a law that will cause very large turbulence in schools in which there may simply be no children on 1 September 2016. Prime Minister, don't laugh. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm here. convinced that if you treated this project as government, it would be much more robust and avoid many reefs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u769	Thank you. I understand that both questions are more addressed to the rapporteur. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: No, to the Prime Minister.]] There you go, rapporteur Marzena Machalek. [[The Prime Minister would have dared.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u770	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This amendment, this bill really cleans up the mess and withdraws the pseudoreform you created. [[Applause]] [[A voice from the hall: On the contrary!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It is the answer, a positive response to the expectations of parents who fought a dramatic battle for the welfare of their children, for the good of Polish education. [[Applause]] This amendment restores the belief that Poles can decide the shape of the Polish school and influence the education of their children. [[Applause]] This amendment contains two aspects. On the one hand, it gives freedom, that is, we restore the school responsibility for 7-year-olds, on the other hand we leave the parents a decision... [[Graceful.]] ...or send a 6-year-old child to school. On the other hand, we increase the authority of the curator and increase the supervision of the State over education, restore the responsibility of the State for the education from which you have deviated. [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] This, on the other hand, must be done quickly, because Poles are waiting for this amendment. [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: I don't think so.]] It is important to give local governments and parents a chance to prepare for the new school year. And you'd finally hit your chests, because what you've done and dismantled in Polish education will take a long time to unscrew. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Woman, don't be smart.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u771	We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 158 Members voted against - 269, 15 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Minority requests from 1 to 13 and amendments from 1 to 5 were submitted to Article. 1 draft law containing amendments to the Education System Act. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 5 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 6aaa. Ah, period. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The adoption of the 1st minority proposal will render the 2nd minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 171 Members voted against - 269, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority proposal to Article. 5 applicants shall propose in the added paragraph. 6aa, that the establishment of the entity referred to in the provision should take place after obtaining the opinion of the education curator. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 171 Members voted against - 270 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. 14 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 1. Here she came forward with a question from Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, the Civic Platform Club. [[What's the point? You should have worked.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u772	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This proposal concerns the withdrawal from the transfer of the school obligation, the age of 7. I wanted to ask, I will consistently ask the Prime Minister. [[Maybe he'll talk.]] Children aged 6 go to school in 24 European Union countries, in some of these countries they start their education earlier. [[Voice from the room: There is no Scandinavia.]] Children in more than 130 countries of the world start education in many years 6 or even earlier. Why do you think that Polish children, unlike other children, not only European children, are children who are not capable of starting... [[But they can.]] ...school education at the age of 6? In the current legal system, children have compulsory preschool education at the age of 5 and compulsory education at the age of 6. Why do you have this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] wrong opinion of Polish children? [[Applause]] [[What a morbid distrust of people.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u773	The Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, will answer your question. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u774	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Former Minister of Education - Courage! It is time to set standards in the European Union, [[Applause]] not to look at what the education system looks like in the European Union. We remind you: this law leaves a decrease in the age of the trainee. A six-year-old will study where his parents decide. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u775	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 158 Members voted against - 280 Members, 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority proposal to Article. 14 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 3, 3a and 3b. The adoption of the 4th minority proposal will render the 5th minority proposal irrelevant. Ms Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, the Civic Platform Club, came forward with a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u776	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the Prime Minister if you are aware that these changes you are proposing will cause turbulence not only in the school in 2016. etc., but also [[Game in the O.R.]] bet [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the very difficult situation of parents present four-year-olds. Well, the parents of today's four - year - olds will have to decide whether their children will start school education at the age of 6 or 7 in 2017. [[Look what you've done.]] And now tell me what the situation in kindergarten will be if we have a group of five-year-olds and half of this group of five-year-olds will already be subject to compulsory preschool education because they will want to go to school at the age of 6, and the other half will be the group that will start education a year later. How is the kindergarten supposed to deal with this situation? I asked you a few questions, I didn't get an answer. Will half of the group have compulsory preschool education and the other one will sit in the corner? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will these children have to move to another group of six-year-olds? These are very basic questions... [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] ...unfortunately, we don't get an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u777	The Minister of Education Anna Zalewska will answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u778	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister, it is a pity that you have not been so active in recent months, especially in your ministry and [[Applause]] in care of the education system. The Education System Act includes individualisation of teaching, including in kindergarten. That's where professionals work, kindergarten teachers. They are partners for parents, and they and their parents will decide what education will look like. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u779	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 156 Members voted against - 285, with no abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th minority proposal to Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The applicants propose, inter alia, that the obligation referred to in this provision should apply to a child who is 5 or 6 years old respectively. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: What's the question?]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 155 Members voted against - 284 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th minority proposal to Article. 14a in the added mouth. 2a applicants propose that the establishment of the network referred to in the provision should take place after obtaining the opinion of the education curator. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 171 Members voted against - 269, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. 15 applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: No!]] Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska raises a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u780	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister! I recommend Schopenhauer's reading, he already knew that when there are no rational arguments, he reaches for personal arguments. So I understand that because of your lack of rational arguments, you're reaching out to me. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, something strange is happening in this bill, because not only do you not believe in Polish six-year-olds, you also do not believe in Polish teachers. [[Voice from the room: Ojojoj.]] [[Voice from the hall: You don't believe in your parents.]] In addition, you make such strange changes that make a six-year-old too weak to be in school, while the same six-year-old in kindergarten can learn. The teacher is too weak to work with a six-year-old at school, but the same kindergarten teacher with the same six-year-old can do it. I would ask you to decide what your opinion is about Polish six-year-olds and Polish early-school teachers. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u781	And the Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, asks for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u782	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! In fact, Schopenhauer tells us how to argue. The last argument is ad personam. In your case, I've exhausted all of them. That's one thing. [[Applause]] Secondly, as far as a six-year-old is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we are only talking about the freedom and decision of the parent and the fact that he is to find a friendly place for him. Unfortunately, 8 years have led to the fact that we are one of the few countries in the world, where there are two shifts, and there this six-year-old should not learn. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u783	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[24 hours in the Seym doesn't bother you.]] 442 Members voted. 156 Members voted against - 270 Members, with 16 abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. [[Ask, ask!]] [[Help her over there!]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] In the 9th minority proposal and the same 1st amendment to Article. 16 applicants propose, among others: Do not add lips. 1b. The committees are asking for an amendment. The adoption of the 9th minority proposal and the 1st amendment will result in the zeroness of the 2nd amendment. The question was asked by Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u784	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is an amendment in which we will be in favour, but please tell me how it is that when this amendment, which is exactly the same as it sounds, was proposed by the Civic Platform, you were against it. [[Applause]] It was a few days ago at first reading. Today, the same amendment tabled by the PiS makes you all in favour. I'm very happy for you, but I can't understand why this is happening. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u785	The Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u786	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister, Madam, is a proof of respect for the opposition and public consultation. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u787	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority proposal and the same 1st amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. A total of 421 Members voted against - 19 and one Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. The second amendment has become unobtrusive. In the third amendment, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 30. The committees are asking for the amendment to be rejected. Adoption of the 3rd amendment will render amendments 4 and 5 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Where's the question?]] 442 Members voted. Two Members have voted in favour of 207 Members against - 233 Members. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 30 applicants propose e.g. other conditions of the competition for the post of curator and vice-president of education. The committees are asking for an amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. The vote was 274, against 168 and no one abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 3 of paragraph 30. 6. The committees are asking for an amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 270 votes against - 170, no abstentions. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 10th minority proposal to Article. Article 58 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 applicants shall propose other conditions necessary to establish a public school or establishment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th minority request will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 168 Members voted against - 270, 3 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 11th minority proposal, applicants propose to maintain the existing wording of the Article. 59. The adoption of the 11th minority proposal will result in an unobligation of 12 and 13. minority proposals. He's asking for a vote... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] With a question from Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[But she's in trouble.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u788	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This is an amendment that... We want to avoid this situation, but the PiS proposed a change, because of which the local government will be responsible for whether the school exists on its territory and whether it is financed, while the decision whether this school will function or will be terminated will be taken by the curator. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] I wanted to ask you how you imagine the situation... [[Voice from the room: We imagine.]] ...which can happen, i.e. a situation in which the local government considers that it is unable to finance a school or school is simply empty, and the curator will tell it. [[We won't have stupid parole officers.]] Do you foresee a mechanism for helping the local government at a time when it turns out that these interests are contradictory and the local government will simply not be able to maintain this school? [[No one as self-governments out of money as you did...]] Previously, the previous article referred to the transfer of schools to other entities, i.e. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In fact, it's coming off the Teacher's Card. The mechanism is similar. Do you realize that? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u789	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u790	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! As you know the Constitution, the Local Government Act, the Education System Act, we are two bodies. One is pedagogical supervision, state budget and guidance bodies. And the state, and the state budget, and the leading authorities are taxing their citizens. Art. The 7th Local Government Act makes it clear that one of the basic tasks of the local government is to maintain public education. That's why they collect taxes. Authorities actually used by the state, especially by your advisors, who focused around themselves, who advised local governments on how to play educational subsidies, among others. To teach local governments, for example, how to give public education to various associations in the management of... [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] So... [[Constitution!]] And here for the third time, Mrs Lubnauer, I answer that there will be a national debate on Polish education, because it is necessary. [[Voice from the hall: It's almost like the Seym.]] It will last for six months in 2016. Among other things, your messages will be sent. I will invite the Member along with the bloggers because I have read who have a slightly different view of education than you. We will invite you to the debate. First of all, we will invite leading authorities to this debate, because the countries of 8 years have led, first, to the fact that they do not have a penny to reach for the Structural Funds, because they are indebted to 74 billion, and secondly... [[Voice from the hall: Who owed them?]] [[Yes.]] ...you've told the management authorities, the local authorities, that it's worth building a sports hall to which they'll pay a month, twice a year, as much as school education. So let's debate, find a compromise. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u791	Please. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u792	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I asked a very simple question. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[A voice from the hall: For God's sake...]] What will happen in a situation in which the local government will be sure that it is unable to maintain the school, and the curator will tell it. And please don't condemn all the small schools that work and are run by associations, because very often it is, it was the only chance that this school would exist... [[No, it's not.]] ...so that the teachers who work in it can continue to work. So that we meet next year, you'll be richer with a lot of experience. Then, I'm convinced, or you'll look at the problem. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Minister of National Education Ms Anna Zalewska: Mr Marshal, one sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u793	Mrs Anna Zalewska wanted to answer. [[Voice from the room: First you have to understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u794	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! When encouraging the debate, I also encourage you to examine the way rural schools are subsidised. [[It's true.]] They are among the most valuable in education, and for 8 years the state has led to several thousand such schools being liquidated, several tens of thousands of teachers employed on the Teacher's Card released. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u795	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 171 Members voted against - 269, with 1 abstention. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 12th minority proposal to Article. 59 (1) (a) 2 applicants shall propose other conditions necessary for the liquidation of the schools referred to in that provision. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club, asked. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: Break!]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Now it will be about the grandstand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u796	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Prime Minister! The essence of self-government is that the local government carries out its own tasks in the way and in the form it has chosen, the Minister. The Minister just said that running schools is her own job. How do you explain $2.5,000? municipalities in Poland that run schools that do not violate the constitutional task of their own municipality? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[We're not intruding.]] How do you explain that? Because local governments have the right to choose form and way. [[Normal.]] This is the case law of the Constitutional Court. I know you and the tribunal have a problem in the last few days. [[Touchdown, applause]] And this tribunal maybe in your plans it will cease to exist. But that's what the tribunal is for: if there's a school where 15 students attend... [[And the one about the grandstand again...]] ...and a kilometer away - the school where 70 students attend, even if the voivode is from PiS, there is no right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] force the uncle or mayor to keep this school, because this is the task of self-government, Polish self-government. [[Applause]] [[I'll make it happen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u797	The answer will be given to the Minister of Education Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u798	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Member did not listen to my earlier statement. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I was talking about the responsibility of the leading authorities and the state. Let me remind you that we are conducting an educational policy, that in the Constitution it is we who are responsible for this: the High Sejm... [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is gibberish.]] ...including all the authorities obliged to do so. And I want to reassure you that this is how we want to set the weight and think about the debate and education system so that this doesn't happen. [[What debate?]] That's not enough. We're the ones who are worried about leading bodies that you weren't thinking about. for eight years. [[Applause]] [[Don't worry, let them work quietly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u799	We'll proceed with the vote. Those of you and your fellow Members who are in favour of the 12th minority request would like to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 171 Members voted against - 269, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 13th. a minority proposal to the Article. 59 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2d. Mr Paweł Skutecki, the Kukiz Club15, asks. [[What happened?]] [[He's surprised himself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u800	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! This conclusion, which we will now consider, is lost on the committee probably because it did not have the stamp of the majority. He's about the calendar. The municipalities adopt a resolution on the liquidation of schools in February, and it enters into force in September. If the resolution is challenged, the cases in the voivodship and the Supreme Administrative Court last longer than this period. We only offered enough that until the judgment of the administrative court of the voivode was confirmed, the execution of the resolution on the liquidation of the school would be suspended. I don't know why you were against it. Please, back it up. [[Applause]] [[Oh, my gosh, that's a tough question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u801	The answer will be given by the Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u802	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Mr. Speaker! We have indeed considered this amendment and, unfortunately, there is no way that the law will work backwards. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Voices from the hall: How not?]] [[A resolution must be taken.]] But to answer your question, I also answer the hysterical doubts of the Civic, PSL and Modern Platform's voices, which speak of haste. That's why to build a proper calendar so that the attending authorities can prepare themselves for school heads to prepare for teachers and parents to prepare, we are in such a hurry. And that's why we really want to pass this bill, and so that the lead authorities know that the probation officer will be here any minute, and that he won't allow the school to go out irrationally. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u803	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. a minority request, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 193 Members voted against - 247, 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 6th amendment, applicants propose to add a new article to the draft law amending it. 6a. This amendment is combined with the 7th amendment. The committees are filing for their admission. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 6 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 439 Members voted in favour, 1 Member voted against, 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has accepted the amendments. In the 14th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 7 draft amending act. The question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, the Civic Platform Club. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ashka, come on, come on!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u804	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have to admit, this is probably one of the most curiosity proposals I've encountered in the last 10 years of being in politics. Well... [[No, the tribunal was.]] ... Law and Justice proposes... I think this is a desperate attempt to fill classes I 1 September 2016. [[Under the cover of the night.]] Under the cover of the night. Law and Justice suggests that at the request of a parent, a child should be allowed to repeat the first class. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century, when we should be building on the potential of a child, not punishing him... [[We're basing.]] ...for deficits, we should do anything, even if the child is in some kind of trouble to deal with them. [[That's what compensatory classes are for.]] [[Yeah, that's it. That's it.]] Can you imagine how a child will feel when left in first grade? Are you two... [[At the request of a parent.]] ...can you imagine that? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who told you that? [[Voice from the room: Parents.]] It's so psychic, I can't imagine any teacher signing off on it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u805	The answer will be given by the Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u806	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Mrs. Member! [[Voice from the hall: Minister!]] Madam President, a few simple phrases and answers to your questions. [[Voice from the room: Bareja!]] First of all, these are parents' suggestions, the million that signed off on the proposals, [[Applause]] Which you've crushed. [[Game in the O.R.]] Second of all, you keep telling me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] a new European speech about dysfunctional... [[Yes, sir.]] ...environment. This dysfunction you have just offered to those children that parents are fighting for. [[Applause]] Third, this is real freedom. Children have the right to make such a decision with their parents and parents. Just so we're clear... [[Kids! Kids! Kids!]] I don't know, because you only have contact with teachers from private schools. I talk to public school teachers and they ask for such solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u807	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 172 Members voted against - 268 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 8th amendment, applicants propose to add to the draft law amending the article. 8a. The committees are asking for an amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: No, sorry, I volunteered.]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]] [[Voice from the room: No...]] The question is raised by Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska. I would have asked you to report earlier, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u808	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, what we were talking about just now - it seemed to me that this was the most curial proposal made, but today there was another one, i.e.. so that you can repeat not only the first class, but also the second. [[Joy in the Chamber]] But just so we're clear, you can only repeat it when that baby was born in the first half of the year, because the other one isn't. [[That's when you forced six-year-olds to go to school.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are really moving in the fumes of absurdity. I hope the Prime Minister didn't realize that these proposals were crazy, otherwise it's really hard for me to explain. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u809	The Minister for Education wishes to speak, Mrs Anna Zalewska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u810	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! All those... [[Let's do the third one again.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...the situations from which Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska mocks and mocks Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska are those forced six-year-olds. [[Yes, sir.]] And secondly, the specialists in the case of 21% The postponed children have made a clear decision. I understand you're undermining the powers of psycho-pedagogical counseling. And after another, I would like to remind you that in this law - Members who were not in that term - where there is a law on education, it is written that every year, every year and every educational stage can be postponed... [[Voice from the room: You have to repeat it.]] ...child until December 30th. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u811	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 275 Members voted against - 165, two Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th minority proposal to Article. Article 11 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] shall apply mutatis mutandis. The 12th draft law amending the applicant proposes to bring back from the draft law the rules on setting up a kindergarten network. We're coming... [[That's what you don't even understand.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority proposal will raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 171 Members voted against - 269, two Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 9th amendment to the article. The 13th draft law amending the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 2. The committees are asking for an amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 274 Members voted against - 47, 121 Members abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the whole draft law, but the ladies came forward with questions earlier. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] Mrs Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Civic Platform Club. [[Voice from the room: You will be counted.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u812	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I hope that no one has any doubts after this discussion that everything here is the opposite of what it should be, [[Applause]] 'Cause we're gonna have a wide-ranging consultation, and they're gonna last up to six months, but they're gonna be after the vote on this project, so basically why? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're still saying you're very open to consultation, but why didn't you agree to a public hearing on this? Why is all this happening at such a rate? [[Did you agree to the vote?]] Representatives of NGOs who have a different opinion than the Ministry of National Education... [[Let them collect a million signatures.]] ...they didn't really have the opportunity to speak. [[That's hypocritical.]] Just because you don't hear things doesn't mean you don't take responsibility for them. [[A listening specialist.]] You take full responsibility for the great chaos, great mess and great effort, which will certainly not lead to a good change... [[A million signatures.]] ...unless by good change we mean it all, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what has been happening in this House for the last month, but this is already a denial of itself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u813	The second question will be asked by Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Modern Club. [[Question for a break.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u814	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna get into this duel a little bit, but my name is Joanna, too, so maybe I can ask you a question. [[♪ Move, joy in the hall ♪]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Minister, local governments have spoken very negatively about this law. I got a question today from a local governmentman from Torun. I used to be a self-government officer, too. Toruń you probably know because you come once a year for your birthday to Pebble and Wigura. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Who cares?]] I invite you more often, not just on the radio. The question is from a local governmentman and I would like an answer. The Act gives curators the power to block the liquidation of public schools. If there is a conflict between the curators representing government administration and local governments... [[Rysiek wrote there.]] ...and the parole officer will block the school's liquidation, so will the government take over its funding? I'd like an answer now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u815	The answer will be given by the Minister of Education, Ms Anna Zalewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u816	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! First, the reply to the honourable Member stating that I have already given it. [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] I can say it again, of course. We are talking about the co-ownership of two bodies, which are enshrined not only in the Constitution, but also in laws, including local governments. This is one of the basic tasks to which the local government is obliged and to which it takes the tax, because, however, we assume harmony and cooperation, because it is enshrined in the laws, but the responsibility of the government and the state for education policy does not provide for the kind of events which you spoke about. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska. The highest good, as Prime Minister Beata Szydło said, not at the expense, but the investment, for the club of Law and Justice is a child. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We reverse this reform that is harmful to the child so quickly, because we simply feel sorry for the children. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] And it's a waste of money for those organs that will be forced to change this system after many years. At the same time we start the discussion from this point on, pointing out which element of education is most important in kindergarten, just in teaching in classes I-III. And since she did not want to listen, she was not gracious to listen, I would remind you that at the Bureau meeting, which you should inform the President... [[That's meanness.]] ...the education committee, I've shown that this is a precedent for this bill, that it has to be parliamentary, so that it doesn't lead to such dramatic chaos that you and your club have led to. Therefore, more humility. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Yeah, more humility.]] And one more point. It is a pity, Minister, that at the last act, because I do not know if you recall an integrated qualification system, we did so at three meetings of the Education Committee and two meetings of the Sejm. Were Mrs Kluzik-Rostkowska and you concerned that this was a parliamentary project? No, because he was covering for your inability. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u817	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 148, along with the amendments adopted, will be willing to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Vladek, shame on you.]] 442 Members voted. 17 Members have abstained in favour of 269 Members against 156 Members. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. [[Applause]] We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft budget law for 2016. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Mr. Marshal, question.]] Mr Neumann asked. [[We've come to the vote.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u818	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! At the end of the debate, Minister Shamacha decided to place a wager on the table, said that a certain amount of money was assumed, that the deficit would not be exceeded, and that he was willing to contribute to the budget. I'd like to extend this bet a little, Minister, because it's an easy bet for you... [[Voice from the room: O beer.]] ...because you're just gonna cut your expenses at the end of the year and keep this deficit in check. Today you can do this maneuver. I'd like you to take another bet, that the revenue you've planned in this budget, which is unrealistic, is too optimistic, [[Applause]] You're gonna cash that money and then you're gonna put it on the table. That's a bet we'd be happy to take. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[There aren't any accounting loopholes yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u819	Asking for a bet. Mr Paweł Szalamach, Minister of Finance, answers. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[Voice from the hall: Take a bet, be a man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u820	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! Bet's in. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[What's the point?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u821	We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to reject the 2016 draft government budget law at first reading, contained in print No 146, would like to raise his hand and press the button. [[...Niesiołowski will go to PiS.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 206 voted against - 234 and 1 Member abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. According to Art. 106 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The draft budget law of the Sejm shall be addressed to the Committee on Public Finance and the respective parts of the draft shall also be examined by the relevant Sejm committees, which shall forward to the Committee on Public Finance positions containing proposals, opinions or proposals for amendments together with justification. In accordance with the resolution of the Bureau of the Sejm on laying down the procedure for drawing up the draft budget law for 2016, the Sejm committees shall communicate their positions to the Committee on Public Finance by 8 January 2016 and the Public Finance Commission shall adopt the report by 18 January 2016. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 160). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Members have come forward who would like to speak on this matter. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the first vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u822	Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! I never thought I'd be speaking at this point in the show... [[Neither do we.]] ...but this resolution is about something completely different than what it suggests. Well, the Prime Minister has been calling for cooperation in the media for some time. Today's our chance. There is a law on civil service, a bad draft by Law and Justice, which causes the politicisation of civil service and significantly reduces the requirements for some officials. [[Mr President, you are isolated...]] In modern terms, this project absolutely reduces the quality standards of the state. Unfortunately, you can see the determination of Law and Justice to push this project, but now Law and Justice, without a majority on the committee, cannot pass this bill. [[Applause]] What's he doing? He doesn't talk, he doesn't discuss. Without finesse, it complements the panel with three of its voters... [[He's pushing it right now.]] ...to push this bad bill through. [[What are you guys doing in the Modern?]] I have a question for the Prime Minister as to whether this is the right change... [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] ...that if you don't have the majority, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You put three of your own on the scale and walk in like butter, pushing that bill with your knee. [[Applause]] If that's what this good change is supposed to be, thank you very much. To conclude, I must say that it is precisely because the consequence of the adoption of this resolution is the adoption by the committee and then by the Sejm of the evil, destroying civil service of the law, that the Modern will vote against this resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Why don't you finally pass a resolution?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u823	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not a government power. These are the decisions of the Sejm and club privileges. [[But he's from Modern.]] Ms Anna Maria Siarkowska, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u824	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll be honest with you, I'm very disappointed... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Shh!]] ...disappointed by the fact that Members of the Law and Justice rather than having a debate on the common good, on how to improve the Civil Service Act, so that it serves all Poles, decided simply to circumvent the debate and supplement the committee. [[No, there's gonna be a debate.]] Of course, you have the right to do so. But I would like to draw your attention to one thing. We are talking as Members of Kukiz15 with members of your committee, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, and, on several occasions, with regard to some of the demands we have made, we are right, but the problem is this - they emphasize - that they cannot get an answer... [[Names.]] ...they can't get, so to speak, slaps, [[♪ The bell ♪]] approval of those points that we raise from the government. [[Applause]] So the question is whether you really want to talk about a good change, whether you really want to talk about the common good, or if you just focus on it... [[Time!]] ...what they want to praise, and they don't see anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u825	Thank you. Member Tomasz Szymański, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u826	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! I, too, do not remember such a heated discussion as in the last item of the night order of today's proceedings. I confirm, ladies and gentlemen, that today the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs voted to postpone the deadline for considering the amendments tabled at second reading concerning the Civil Service Act... [[But he's dangerous.]] ...until the government's position on this matter has been prepared. Mr. Marshal, my question is, what happened this evening, the circumstances that caused just what my previous speakers said... [[Voice from the room: Important.]] ...that complements the composition of our committee, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the three Members of Law and Justice? Doesn't an increase in committee involve an attempt to vote forcefully against the Civil Service Act despite the lack of... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's not...]] Let me finish. After all, in this term of office, ladies and gentlemen, it has become popular to resume the vote, all the votes you lose. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[But he did.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u827	I'm telling you, this is the club's right. These situations happen in every term of office. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[Voice from the room: Oh, no!]] [[The voice from the hall: Oh, no, it's not.]] I don't want to remind you how many dozens of times... [[Remind me.]] ...was during the previous term of office. [[Voice from the room: Need to be reminded.]] Mr Marek Suski, Club of Law and Justice, has the floor. [[In what mode?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u828	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask a question to those who have asked questions because you can ask a question. [[There's no such thing.]] Well, that's a question I'd like to ask. [[Voice from the room: There is no such mode.]] [[Who?]] Is there any way to pass a minority vote? So far, most have always voted out what she planned. [[Applause]] That's one thing. [[Genius.]] Second... [[How did this happen?]] [[Voice from the room: And we voted.]] ...I'm explaining the matter of supplementing the committees. The compositions of the committee, as we all agreed, were determined by the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which speaks of parities in committees. [[Exactly.]] In this committee we have 18 members of the Law and Justice, and according to parity we have the right to 20. We're calling off one friend who's sick, he's in the hospital, and we're supplementing this committee with a normal squad... [[Voice from the room: Three.]] ...parity. It's not unusual. [[Voice from the room: Simple?]] [[Simple?]] But so far, and I'm already here for the fifth term, [[♪ The bell ♪]] never the right of clubs to fill the parities in committees has not been undermined. [[Yes, sir.]] So if this seismic custom [[Applause]] is questioned in this House, it can be said that you are talking about democracy, and you are trying to introduce anarchy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u829	Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u830	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! This isn't about the club's right to attend. I want to ask if there's a government position and when was the Council of Ministers... [[Voice from the Chamber: Changes in committee.]] ...and when it's delivered to us... [[That's not the point.]] ...the government's position, because the committee was interrupted because of it. I understand that the Constitutional Tribunal could be re-summated, unfortunately, it was not possible in this committee, so now there are further explanations. Prime Minister, Minister of Constitution in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Ms Beata Kempa promised that this position of the government for the Civil Service Act is being prepared. We're waiting for this because what's going on with the Civil Service Act is the embarrassment and farce you're doing. [[That's not the point.]] First the committee report, completely different presented, now all the amendments and the change of the overall project that we are proceeding. Ladies and gentlemen, demagogy, hypocrisy and destruction of democratic Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[People's Republic of ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u831	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Kukiz club15, came forward. [[Vladek, shame on you.]] [[Voice from the room: No!]] Excuse me, the Modern Club. [[We don't want him.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u832	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo!.... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[A voice from the hall: Take it!]] Perhaps we shouldn't work at this hour, Marshal. I agree with my colleague's request here because we expect this position to be. And, Prime Minister, with a certain degree of shyness, I will ask the Prime Minister where are the answers to our questions about the exposé. 14 days. If it's going to be like the Minister said today that there's going to be something... I hope there will be. Tomorrow at 9:30... [[Voice from the Chamber: Changes in committees are these!]] ...you've managed this committee, and I hope that the government's opinion will be on the committee, because on condition that we stop the proceedings today. And I hope you'll start keeping your commitments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u833	Minister Beata Kemp is asking for the floor. There you go. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u834	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo!.... [[Voice from the room: Applause!]] Of course, we know each other. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish People's Party is the last group that should be in this... [[Voice from the room: Elewarr.]] ... The House dictates to anyone how staff policy is practiced. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] And I want to be clear and clear that we had these excellent samples - not only Owl and Friends, because there was a recipe for staff policy, but above all in the performance of Minister Kwiatkowski and Mr Bure. [[Applause]] [[The answer to the question was meant to be. Government position. To the point, the government's position.]] And this was the human resources policy in 2007 and 2015. [[Voice from the room: Get to the point! Government position.]] [[The voice from the hall: To Things it is read.]] It is always possible, Mrs Melissa, to recommend it. [[Speak, Beata, pay no attention.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to what I said at the first reading of the bill, and let us remind you, it was at least a few days ago, when it came to the position of the government, we started with the process of the legislation, including the regulations. And the government's position will be presented to you at the committee at 3 p.m. 9.15 or 9.30, according to what we said. On the other hand, what you have tried and said at today's session of the Sejm and in committee meetings, I would like to make it clear and clear that it contradicts what you have been doing for the last eight years. You did fiction, privacy, nepotism, and everything that contradicts real HR policy. [[Applause]] We want to cut this fiction, introduce professionals. There are new departments in the economy, there's the Ministry of Shipping... [[Kaczynski...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ... The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping, which requires professionals, which require expertise. As far as civilian service is concerned, we have 120,000. officials and civil servants. If you think it's 120,000. It'll be wiped off the face of the earth, and you're wrong. Therefore, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, in accordance with all the rules adopted in the High House, the position of the government will be put forward, and the position of the government will support the parliamentary bill. We are very pleased that Members have come forward with this very rational project. We will begin to rule with officials who will primarily do the will of the nation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: These are the runners.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u835	Ms Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, submitted a corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u836	Dear Minister of Constitution in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers! My name is Angelica Możjanowska. [[Applause]] If I ask you a question, please turn to me and not to the Polish People's Party. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: No...!]] And mark, and warn, and please. I asked you whether the government's position had been adopted and not that it would be presented. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u837	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Agata, come on.]] [[Answer.]] [[There's no need.]] We'll proceed with the vote. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print no. 160, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. Two Members abstained in the vote 231 against - 206. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. The formal proposal was made by Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club. [[Again with the recess...]] [[Voice from the room: I don't want to. There isn't.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 minutes 40 hours 23 min 44]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Radiophony and Television (print No 158). I ask Barbara Bubula to provide the reasons for the bill. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u838	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I would like to state the reasons for the bill. The bill is the first stage of the reform of Polish public media aimed at establishing a system of national media. Its pillars will be institutions which do not have the character of public limited liability companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And he's gonna make sure...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u839	Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention or leave the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u840	...which will provide stable sources of funding. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[You should never be an MP.]] The creation of a new system for organising and financing national media requires several months of intensive work and will be the next stage of the reform. In the meantime, the proposed law focuses on changing the way supervisory boards and boards of existing public broadcasting companies are created and reducing the number of supervisory boards to three people. This involves eliminating the participation of the National Radio and Television Council as a regulator of the electronic media market in the creation of boards and supervisory boards operating on this market of State Treasury companies. Until the introduction of a new organisation of national media, this should be the domain of the Minister responsible for State Treasury... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u841	Excuse me, Member. I ask Members of the Law and Justice Club - that is, it seems, your bill - for attention. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u842	Until the introduction of a new organisation of national media, this should be the domain of the Minister responsible for the State Treasury, who is responsible to the Sejm. According to the Constitution, the National Radio and Television Council upholds the freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest in radio and television. These tasks apply equally to public and private media, and the Constitution does not provide for any specific competence of the national council towards public media. On the other hand, the Constitution provides for the issuing by the National Council of normative acts and individual acts addressed to entities not subject to its organisation. According to the Constitution, the National Council is therefore a government-independent regulatory body with public authority, an empire against its non-organised broadcasters. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Shh...]] However, the revised Act of 29 December 1992 on Radio and Television also includes the powers of the National Radio and Television Council with regard to public media, which are characteristic of corporate powers and ownership supervision, i.e. the dominion. On the one hand, the National Radio and Television Council is a regulatory body for all market participants and, as such, should be impartial and act transparently - see recital 94 of the European Parliament and Council Directive of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, so-called. The Audiovisual Media Services Directive - and, on the other hand, the existing rules give the National Council broad competence in the domain of public broadcasting units operating in the form of single-member public limited liability companies of the State Treasury, even though these companies are also strong and significant participants in the audiovisual services market. According to the existing regulations, which need to be amended, the National Council of Radiophony and Television decides, among other things, the composition of the authorities of the Treasury companies and the content of the statutes of these companies. From the point of view of independence, impartiality and transparency of the regulatory authority as required by recital 94 and Article. 30 Audio-visual Media Services Directives raise far-reaching concerns. Its constitutional tasks, i.e. to uphold freedom of expression, the right to information and the public interest of radio and television, can be carried out by the national council in an impartial and transparent manner only as a regulatory body. For these reasons, it is necessary to amend certain provisions of Chapter 4 of the Act on Radiophony and Television. The proposed changes bring the ownership and corporate powers of the State Treasury companies which are public broadcasting units closer to the standard for other companies controlled by the State Treasury. In view of the change in the rules governing the size and manner of creation of bodies, i.e. management boards and supervisory boards of State Treasury companies, it is justified to put out the mandates of existing members of these bodies. In the case of the bodies of the two largest companies with national coverage, that is Polish Radio SA and TVP SA, this will happen by virtue of the law itself from the date of entry into force of the proposed law. In the case of 17 regional radio companies, this will take place gradually, as changes are made to their bodies. The proposed changes will contribute not only to rationalising and reducing the management costs of public broadcasting companies but also to restoring the professional and ethical standards required by the public service mission set out in Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 revised act on radio and television. I quote: Public radiophony and television carry out a public mission by offering, on the basis of the principles set out in the Act, various programmes and other services in the field of information, publicity, culture, entertainment, education and sport, characterised by pluralism, impartiality, balance and independence and innovation, high quality and integrity of communication. End of quote. The proposal will therefore have a positive social and economic impact on the adoption of this regulation. The legal effect of this regulation will be to change the way supervisory boards and boards of existing public broadcasting companies are created. According to the applicants, the proposed solutions will not result in costs on the part of the state budget and budgets of local government units. The subject matter of the proposed regulation is compatible with European Union law. We propose in the draft submitted that it enter into force on the day of the announcement, and this is because the important interest of the State is in favour of this... [[The day before we propose.]] ...including the need to ensure the proper execution of the public service mission contained in the article cited above. 21 Radio and TV Act. This provision on the entry into force of the law does not preclude the principle of a democratic rule of law, as these amended provisions do not de facto concern the general public... [[Laws and Justice.]] ...and only the functions of the State related to the operation of public broadcasting units. Nor do they concern civil rights and freedoms exercised on the boards and supervisory boards of those companies. I ask the High House to adopt this project and thus start a real reform that renews the functioning of Polish national media. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u843	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Elżbieta Raven, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u844	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the foundations of the functioning of the community, nation or state is the media. On the other hand, the guarantee of the programme quality of the entire media market in the country is strong financially, in a manner that properly implements the social mission of public media. Today in Poland, the state of public media cannot be regarded as satisfactory, and that is a delicate term. It cannot be considered satisfactory from many points of view: the way in which a public mission is carried out, a vital part of which is to seek and show the truth, journalistic standards of objectivity and reliability, the rationality of structures and the management and, finally, financing. [[Applause]] The gap between the recognised and desirable standard of public media and the current reality of public radio and television units is very deep, especially in the case of Polish Television. Instead of encouraging the development of genuine public opinion by allowing and confronting different points of view and arguments on an equal footing, a specific media opinion is promoted. In this opinion, falsely presented as a public opinion, it is established in advance which ideologies, political orientations, views and types of social and ethical sensitivity are normal or correct... [[And sexual orientation, let's not be afraid to say it.]] ...notabene in recent years are those who have not gained the support of the majority of voters - and which are a deviation from such a established standard and as such are to be presented as a suspicious margin. This is reflected, for example, in the biased discussion with the participants in the public debate invited to study, in the allocation of time to individual policies and political parties, and in the division of experts' programmes on the right, who receive the most frequent voice and of which opinions are not discussed, and in the controversial opinions which are either silenced or presented as a negative contrast to those considered undisputed. [[That's why you maliciously turn off your microphones.]] This is also reflected in the selection of subjects based on a specific hierarchy of importance and values. Third-rate disputes obscure what determines the existence of millions of Polish families, the chances of the young generation and the future of our country. The ethos rooted in Christianity and the Polish traditions of freedom and independence are pushed to the margin or discredited, and the nobility is ideological and moral fashion, not accepted by the majority of society. By placing themselves in a role involved on one side of reviewers and helmmen of public life, state media feel relieved of responsibility for the welfare of the national community and do not identify with the Polish state right. This clearly distinguishes them from the media in the largest countries west of our borders. At a time when Poland with its potential, its past and its pride, its sense of freedom and its attachment to proven values and institutions is simply uncomfortable for many European and global players, and thus it is discredited or even slandered by the media which are their tools, journalists of Polish public media instead of creating a media shield for the Polish cause of the state, they most often sympathize directly with unfavorable opinions of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir!]] Law and Justice wants to restore the importance of public media by improving organisational structures, functioning and decisive financial reinforcement. This is intended to serve the basic objective: restoring public media to Poles. It is paradoxical that those who were silent at the time, when the leader of the PO and Prime Minister Donald Tusk in public statements reduced the importance of public media to the role of trophies in party games, completely ignoring their mission towards the community and national culture, and announced their maximum weakness, and in this respect he just kept his word... [[Voice from the hall: Tusk's Wines.]] ...tonight they're turning their heads and talking about trying to assassinate the PIS on public media. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the justification of the submitted proposal, the Act constitutes the first stage of the reform of Polish public media aimed at establishing a system of national media. Its pillars will be non-commercial companies, which will provide stable sources of funding. Creating a new organisation and financing system [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, national media takes time and will be the next stage of the reform. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club requests that the draft be submitted to the Committee on Culture and Media and the Treasury Commission for consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] [[Tonight.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u845	Thank you, Member. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, Parliamentary Club, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u846	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Twelve o'clock, ghosts appeared in this room. [[Applause]] But I have to say, I'm impressed. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] In December 2005, the same team of mouths without a small number of the same people needed three days to blow up public media through the complete destruction of the National Radio and Television Council. [[Voice from the room: Déja vu.]] After 10 years, ladies and gentlemen, the same team can do it within 1 day and that is what they intend to do. [[The voice from the hall: Something, he knows something about it...]] [[We're getting to practice.]] So as I said, you should appreciate the effort, only that the rest is one big scam. This law has been announced for a long time, it has been commented on, there have been many interviews about it, there has been even a presentation in the Association of Polish Journalists. There was no presentation because there was only the first page or page of this project, I don't know, but there was a announcement of the presentation. And there were supposed to be national media or an institution of culture, strengthening the role, raising rank, everything was supposed to be, and I have to admit that it even aroused some interest as an intellectual challenge facing a new authority, which would find a way to strengthen public media, strengthen the mission they carry out, and also provide them with a stable funding system. All this was meant to be, and in return, we just have a normal robbery, except not in broad daylight, but under cover of night, and it's all about changing power. The bill presented to us here today really has nothing to do with public media. It's just a smarter way to change authorities than it was 10 years ago. Because 10 years ago, the end of the term of the national council ended in the Constitutional Court, and now you are simply no longer dealing with the national council, let it last until March or April, when its term of office ends, only the public media are simply handed over to the Minister of the Treasury and without any rules, rules, competitions, public disclosures, one man - the Minister of the Treasury, the Minister of the Treasury... [[New management experience.]] ...will appoint himself and the supervisory boards, and the boards without any criteria, without determining the powers of those persons, without the term of office they appoint. He'll call, cancel. And when will he cancel? I think that Mrs Elżbieta Kruk made a crushing criticism of these intentions here, because she said more or less what the Law and Justice expects after this law. There was all the litany -- which was allowed, who was allowed, why was it allowed, what was to be about, what was not to be about. All this has been said. Once upon a time, like these ghosts, who now hovered over this room - on this side, of course, ruled - it was called preventive censorship or there were letters of proscription that someone was not allowed to enter, invite... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, I remember best because I was the subject of this kind of practice. [[In 1968.]] I didn't work on TV at the time. So that's how it was then, and now it's still going to happen. I just want to say one thing: there's one more lie and fraud in this whole project. This is not a law that is compatible with European Union law, because immediately all possible European institutions have spoken and asked for the suspension of the procedure. We'd ask for it, too, if it made any sense, but we know there's no point, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because you don't listen to that kind of voice. And that's a shame, because maybe it's worth a discussion, some expertise, some opinion. Because, in fact, under cover tonight, you're shutting down public media, and you're just, you're just introducing state media... [[Time.]] ...and to tell you the truth, party. [[Applause]] Therefore, I regret to say, with regret to you, of course, that on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, on the basis of Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 resolutions of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u847	Member, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u848	...the rule of law, I move to reject in full the first reading of the Parliamentary bill amending the Act on Radiophony and Television.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u849	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u850	Ladies and gentlemen, the media can change, only please do so, first, in the day, second, decently, and thirdly, yes... [[What difference does it make, day or night?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u851	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u852	Well, I'm not... [[Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka turns off the microphone by Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasinska, applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[I understand. You're the one buying alcohol at the store at night.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: This is insolence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u853	Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor. [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: I suggest not to talk about alcohol in the media.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u854	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that media policy in Poland needs a thorough reform today, and this reform is expected above all by society. Because what has been observed in recent years is a total lack of confidence in the public's communication, which was just presented by public media. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] In recent years, the silence of public media in the event of numerous government scandals, e.g. complete lack of information concerning the Marshal's affair and the testimony of Bronisław Komorowski from December last year. [[Applause]] Today, the media serve mainly the interests of party clans, which are in power, and are even acting as PR offices. This state of affairs absolutely cannot take place in these modern national media. Remember how many times all the principles of journalistic ethics have been violated, which has destroyed people and their families. These actions, of course, were undertaken on a political basis or by certain interest groups. As the individual policy options are treated equally, one could see during the election campaign, among others. in the transmission of antenna time, which proportions the media used at the time. What is more, what can we see in public media today? A huge pay gap. The drivers receive monthly salaries of several tens of thousands of zlotys, while other people working on trash contracts receive the lowest wages. We now need a modern media policy and a mission through public media, a mission that will be based on a reliable communication, a defamation of our history, a mission that will finally break with the educator of shame, which has been observed over the past years, which will ensure the level of public debate, about civic education adapted to different social groups. The Kukiz Club15 cannot imagine how people who have led public media to be a propaganda tube will be able to reform these media at the moment. At the same time, we express concern, concern about whether the change in public media is changing, this good change will not be a mere exchange of officers. We hope that this bill submitted is only a temporary solution... [[Voice from the gym: Naive.]] ...temporarily, because we will begin a thorough work on public media reform. We will invite not only individual policy options to work in the Committee on Culture and Media, but also other environments, widely understood journalistic environments or even NGOs. We also hope that the new project will be prepared in such a wide range of specialists and that these media will not be taken over by the current authority. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u855	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, Modern Parliamentary Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u856	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Member of the Commission and Member of the Commission. The Seym Public Express continues: On December 28th, the Marshal's staff received a draft amendment to the Act on Radio and Television. To be honest, I was very happy about that. For I thought that the bill proposed by the group concerned about the free media of Members of PiS was recently announced several times by politicians and experts of PiS. After all, we were promised the second BBC, and I would very much like to have the second BBC in Poland. It's a great example of public media. It turned out that there was a project that did not export BBC ideals, but imported Russia Today's Putin ideals into Poland. I feel like a good change knocked on my door at hours. 6:00 in the morning. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] The bill proposed by the PiS is simply a staff act designed to give work to proven comrades. Only names are missing to the fullest of happiness. What do we find in this crucial piece of legislative art? Of course, strengthening the incompetence of public media by immediate cancellation of supervisory boards and public media boards and the appointment of new experts from free media, and this expert is the Vice President of PiS and Minister of Treasury Dawid Jackiewicz. Suddenly, the current term of office of these media bodies is to be interrupted - art. Article 2 and Article 2 3 of the draft amendment. All this without any vacathio legis - art. Four projects. Until now, competitions had to be organized for the heads of public media. Now it turns out that competitions are unnecessary. Just a decision from the treasure minister and voilà: there's the president! Moreover, the President does not have to have almost any powers, except, of course, the Minister's favour. The Act removes all records that say that it is to be competent in the management or knowledge of radio and television. You really don't have three competent people in PiS after two months, and you have to take the president off the hook? Well, the president of the catcher must have one more advantage: he must always take calls from the ministry or from Novgorodka. Why? Because the term of office of the board of directors or the board of directors has been terminated. And the minister, as he may call... [[Oh, Jesus, listen to such nonsense...]] ...anyone, can also fire him in five seconds. Of course, applicants respect the constitution. They do not remove the records that it is the National Radio and Television Council that upholds the freedom of the media and the public media mission. Oh, sorry, there's national media now. But the national council currently has no tools to stand on this watch. He doesn't call anyone, he doesn't judge anyone. It may come together and issue a resolution, but the current majority has already proved where it has such resolutions. The most amusing thing was the amendment to the law, which removes all records about the competence of candidates for boards and media supervisory boards. In return, it was stated that the candidate must be a Polish citizen. As I understand it, it's about national media. Ladies and gentlemen! This law is a law on hiring colleagues for positions in public or national media and on nothing else. This is very sad news for the media and for Poland. And the summary will be the statement of Mrs Isabella Kloc's PiS Member in Polsat News: Public media criticize the government. In democracy... [[Voice from the room: This is manipulated information!]] ...that's unacceptable. Do you really know what you are talking about? The Modern Club requests that the bill be rejected at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: This is manipulation, Mr. President.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u857	Thank you. Mr Michał Stasiński, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u858	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, A little history to begin with. When Maciej Szczepański became president of television in 1972, he acted in accordance with the resolution of KC PZPR, I quote: Television must become a medium which strengthens public confidence in the party and people's power. I see a blissful smile on Mr. District Attorney Peterovich's face. There was also a great purge, 450 people were thrown out on the pavement. The state is taking over public media, let's admit honestly, in the best condition. Modern will support you if you work on the Polish version of the BBC, the German ZDF or the Norwegian NRK. But I'm afraid you're going to buy us a TV Trwam with the Television Republic and Russia Today. Quote: If the public media imagine that they will occupy Poles in the coming months with criticism of our changes, it must be stopped. Who is the author of these words? Not Władysław Gomulka, but the head of state of the club Ryszard Terlecki. I have the impression that, unfortunately, the state of the public media is going to make a company television, and you're going to make a public radio. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The company's radio station. Finally, one comment to the Members of the Civic Platform. Especially with regard to public media, I ask you to bow your heads with a certain amount of modesty and guilt, because this is the example...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u859	Time's up, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u860	...see perfectly well that the public media in its present form is an example of your long-standing omission, laziness, lack of character, lack of initiative and political courage. [[Applause]] You left the public media to PiS as a loot. And that's very sad. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u861	Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u862	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! The night shift, but the change is extremely important for the future of Polish media. Night shift. Yesterday - a draft law, of course without an annex. Today we have a draft law on public media. About an hour. We're 23 percent-- About an hour. 00.15. I think there'll be a second reading and a vote tomorrow. [[Voice from the room: Today.]] But we're used to it and you won't tire us out because we're prepared to work hard. This night attack on the media has two acts: in the first you change the rules for selecting the authorities of Polish Television and Polish Radio, in the second the act on national media will be adopted. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! These words have already been said, and we already know who is the author of these words, and today the public media are dealing only with criticism of the government. This is unacceptable in parliamentary democracy. [[Voice from the room: This is manipulation.]] This isn't manipulation. That's the information. It's not Luke's speech, it's not Castro's, it's not Putin's. [[Voice from the room: This is manipulation, please quote the whole words.]] This is unfortunately the statement of one of the messengers in this Chamber. [[Voice from the room: Manipulated.]] Thank you for your honesty. [[Voice from the room: This is manipulation, please quote the whole thing.]] This isn't manipulation. As I understand it, in recent days you have clearly indicated that the Constitutional Tribunal has disturbed you. You threatened to change the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal in order to introduce a 500+ bill or free medicines for seniors. You've already changed the Court, and civil service, but I think that's going to be a fact tomorrow. Now the public media. What are the public media bothering you about? I think in this, in this blue briefcase, there were just these drafts of laws that we're now working on. I would very much like to call them good laws, I would very much like to help in the Polish parliament to proceed over them. I'm really looking forward to the 500+ bill or free meds for seniors because I'm going to support them because it was going to be a good change, but nothing's changed since the last 10 years. Then you changed the Third Republic to the Fourth Republic and unfortunately changed the name worthy of the solutions used in Kazakhstan. Yesterday you proposed a change from the Civil Service Council to the Civil Service Council. Unfortunately, there won't even be this Civil Service Council. Public media now, national media in a moment. And maybe in a minute there'll be a change of name from TVP to TVPiS. What's in the background? Of course, only a fight for a position. [[Applause]] I'll show you in a minute, ladies and gentlemen. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 paragraph 1 you remove, as in the case of the Civil Service Act, the holding of open and open competitions for the positions of members of supervisory boards in public radio and television units. I'm asking you, why? What's bothering you? Is it publicity and openness again? Art. 27 of the current law. You're changing your lips. 4, removing competitions for board members, so they'll be brought in... What? The files from Nowogrodzka? Not much, in the same article. 27 you remove the mouth. 6, which specifies when a member of the Management Board may be cancelled. It may now be dismissed in the event of: conviction by a final judgment of the court for a intentional offence prosecuted by a public prosecution or a tax offence, action to harm the company or the existence of circumstances permanently preventing the performance of office. Great. Are you concerned that these candidates will have a problem with the court, the damage to the company or the circumstances permanently preventing them from performing these functions? And art. 29 of the current bill. You're removing your mouths. 3, which protects the company against a voluntary, without the consent of the national radiophony board, amendment of the company's statutes. Great. Hulk soul, hell is gone. There is no control other than Novgorod. You could still point to other mistakes. Ladies and gentlemen, think about what you're doing. The world isn't that bad, it's colorful. The Ruin is gone, although you can still see it. Unfortunately, this bill is another destruction, it's another piece of crap I'd like to discuss with you, and I'd like to proceed with a good media law, because public media is not allowed to play. And here Mrs Kruk spoke about the time of political exposure by party, i.e. two weeks in November, before the municipal elections Law and Justice had the best result, even though at that time [[♪ The bell ♪]] there was no coalition government, i.e. really professionals and well-chosen experts guaranteed that you were in the Polish media. I'm filing for the rejection of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u863	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Winnicki, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u864	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill on public media is, I would say, brutally honest, brutally honest. Public media in Poland have never been public media, and almost always have been government media for 25 years. [[Exactly.]] Indeed, the bill on which we started today makes it directly - government media. Is that bad? Let me put it this way, with regard to what happened here by your Members, especially from the Civic Platform or from the Modern Platform: the worse these media can no longer be, worse than now, when it reigns in them, you can say boldly, urban propaganda, which is the face of Thomas Lisa. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] These media - mentioned by the German ZDF - that play a disgraceful series of our mothers, our fathers, who allow anti-Polish propaganda, these are not public media, these are anti-Polish media now and this is what the Civic Platform has done. [[Applause]] And it needs to be said very clearly today: the PiS project establishes government media. We're waiting for the national media, we're waiting for the bill. Like my clubmate said, we're going to want to get involved in this project so that we can actually set up this project, the media that will serve the whole nation, not just one governing party. I hope, of course, that the national media project will be consulted with nationalists, otherwise it is not appropriate. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u865	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, please, if you don't, I'm closing the list. Please, Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Platform. Time - 1 minute. Please don't exceed the time. [[Why one minute?]] [[Just one minute?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u866	Mr. Marshal! Indeed, one minute is as much time as ever, but one reply to the national Member. [[His name is Robert Winnicki.]] That's what you called yourself. Public media were public media, which repeatedly criticized the government, and it was not only the Platform and PSL government, but often also earlier. I also remember Mr. Pospieszalski's broadcasts, and I remember the broadcast worth talking about, and nobody's gonna tell me that they were pro-government broadcasts. Today in Poland there are more than 200 Polish-speaking stations and many information channels. Please answer, why is it that viewers choose Polish Television and TVP Info - these are televisions, which are a strong leader in the media market - not for example Trwam Television, which is widely available on multiplex? You say that Polish Television is politicized, only that today the president of TV can be cancelled in case of death or serious breach of duties, and you propose to cancel with one signature of the Minister of Treasury. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u867	Time's up, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u868	If I may, one word. [[Voice from the room: No.]] People decide by pilot, and it's really a choice. And even this choice you want to take away from people, because only the choice that serves your interests is good for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u869	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u870	That's why it's wrong. Again under the cover of the night...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u871	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u872	...you're making another night shift... [[Deputy Marshal Stanisław Tyszka turns off the microphone, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u873	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Yeah, it's best to turn off the microphone. It does always work.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u874	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can do a lot, but you will not be able to force Poles to watch the only right national television. This is not the time when the only window to the world and the source of knowledge was television, fortunately for Poles who will not have to watch TV, thanks to which you will confirm in only one truth and only ideology. In fact, the words of the head of the PiS club, who said that if the public media imagined that they would be critical of our changes in the coming months, then we must stop this, expose your media intentions, and the government's representative for public media reform emphasizes that he talked to many environments and said that the consultation could take place soon. So the question is: Has the project been consulted again in an express manner and again at night with anyone, anyone but the President, of course? What does the word "soon" mean, or is it the same as "immediately"? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Doesn't soon mean: after the Sejm's adoption, the Senate...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u875	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u876	...and armed with the unfailing signature of the President?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u877	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u878	And is this small bill a prelude to limiting the functioning of commercial media? [[Voice from the room: Time.]] Not public anymore, but commercial. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u879	Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u880	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I could ask a question about the European context of this law, about the rights related to independence, but at night - PiS-owska night - I would rather ask a question about the law of force, about the wolf's law, about wolf tickets for independent journalists. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Please answer specifically how many public media journalists will be released as a result of the revision of the media law. [[Everyone.]] Please tell us what criteria will be applied to personal decisions and whether they will be derived from journalistic independence. And finally, what will the media be under the influence of this new law? [[Voice from the room: Same.]] Will they be independent, or will they be impeccable, like the president? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u881	Thank you, sir. Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, Civic Platform, has the floor. You don't have an MP? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u882	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask in the context of the proposed amendment to the law. Members of the Management Board of TV and radio, including the President of the Management Board, as well as members of the Supervisory Board, appoint and dismiss the Minister responsible for State Treasury matters, among others, from persons not only with Polish citizenship, i.e. nationally correct, but also with competence in the field of radio and television. I would like to ask you whether the Minister responsible for State Treasury matters will single-memberly determine the competence and experience of these people in the field of radio and television, or whether he will seek some opinion. And by the way, what powers do you need to be to be an official clapper or a court coach? But we are creating new European standards in the field of education. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u883	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u884	It is Sunday school in the field of media, the radio committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u885	Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u886	The Association of European Journalists sent a letter to your marshal - the matter of our media law has already gone beyond the borders of our country - asking for... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: She's out.]] [[Squeaky, squeaky.]] I found this letter on the Internet, I certainly did not complain about Poland, but if this is how the law breaks, it must be noticed. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This law violates all the standards that are mentioned in European documents, what public media should look like. [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately.]] All the criteria in this bill have been broken. I've been waiting for the media bill, but this media bill has little to do with it. You just want to change the staff and change the staff. Let's call it by name. We talk a lot, I've heard about media freedom here. There's no freedom here, it's just media censorship. I wanted to ask you why this bill should enter into force immediately, why there are no important reasons for our country's vacathio legis here, but the law enters on the date of the announcement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u887	Thank you, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u888	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As you can see, a good change has many names. This time she took the name of shoes and political arrogance in the worst edition. What does Law and Justice offer us? Shorten the term of office of all directors immediately and fills the positions of the Minister of PiS, leaving aside the National Radio and Television Council. As you point out, this is only the first step. Further media reform will be carried out by the PiS-owska expert group: Mr Jacek Kurski, Deputy Minister of Culture famous for conducting politics at the highest level of elegance and elegance, Mr Jarosław Sellin, for whom Television Trwam is a model of TV station, and Mr Krzysztof Czabański, former PZPR activist, who has become famous for carrying out a large-scale purgatory in public media, thanks to which he got a nickname like [[♪ The bell ♪]] Romanian dictator. Is this a good change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u889	Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u890	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS! I have a proposal, of course, in the form of a question. Maybe we should call this state law, media law the Toruń law, and move the headquarters of national media to Toruń right away. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[And a pretty girl like that.]] Since we have one rightful president, one right truth proclaimed in you soon the only right media... [[Cornelia...]] ...it's just like we have the only legitimate father of Torun. I just want to ask you if you can't see, you don't feel it... [[Voice from the hall: Such a nice girl.]] ...that it all takes place in the spirit of the Polish People's Republic. Can't you see people are already going out on the street? I would also like to refer to the words of Mr Sasin, who accused us of raising unjustified fear. Mr President, we are not frightened, we are merely explaining to Poles and massaging fear, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the state you're causing.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u891	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u892	We translate your greed into power to Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u893	Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u894	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It's very simple. The media are not national, they should be public and civic. [[Public is the toilet.]] [[Voice from the room: Public and independent.]] Public and civic. Today we have heard many times that you want to debate and talk. I have a proposition for you. In 2009, you certainly don't remember, but there was a cultural congress. At this congress, a request was made to create a citizens' media law. This law was established in 2010. Let us give the media to citizens. Let the media not be a tool for politicians - this is my appeal - for all politicians. [[Voice from the hall: We too are citizens.]] From right to left and from the inside. The media should be civil. [[There's no left.]] Prime Minister, I encourage you to read this law from 2009 and 2010, but the Prime Minister does not listen and does not look. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's doing the right thing.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: It's really good that he doesn't listen.]] [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Does he really do well when he doesn't listen and doesn't look? Prime Minister? Guys!]] [[Voice from the hall: You can't even ironically.]] [[A little distance to each other.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u895	Thank you. Mrs Marta Golbik, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u896	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The draft media law is contrary to European Union law and you have all received today's opinion... [[Member, look at me.]] ...to which you could comment, and I hope that you will respond. Conflict concerns the freedom of movement of workers between the countries of the European Union. The introduction of the requirement of Polish citizenship for members of the boards of public radio and television companies conflicts with this important freedom for us, which is the right of citizens of the European Union. I have a question as to whether you intend to remove this contradiction in any way, in some way, to respond to an opinion on non-compliance with European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u897	Thank you, Member. Mr Bogusław Sonik, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u898	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Having an influence on the media has always been the temptation of the rulers and, of course, no one here is blameless. Over the years, however, public television and radio management methods have been built to weaken this direct impact of politicians. Various political and social actors have designated their representatives for the term of office of the Supervisory Boards and competitions have been in place for the positions of the Heads of Boards. The current parliamentary majority promised to further depoliticise public media, strengthen their independence and mission. Why, then, are you taking shortcuts like the introduction of constables? What will be the credibility of the nominees in this way? This is how public media will be perceived as infamous prescriptive resolution messages all the time, and citizens will turn their backs on them. Poles learned to distrust such media structures. Question: "Isn't it better to be patient, to realize your demand for profound changes in the overall media law... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm almost done. ...announced by the Minister of Culture to be consulted widely? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u899	Thank you. The voice of Mrs Monica Rosa, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u900	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! If freedom matters to you at all, be aware that freedom means the right to tell people things they don't want to hear, including the right to criticize you deny to the media, including the public media... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] ...because you're not against your opinion as a determinant of the nation's will. You're not a nation. Hence my question. [[No? This is an outrage.]] [[Then who are we?]] What changes do you want to make when you need to replace all the public media staff so suddenly and make them an even bigger propaganda tube of your so-called. A good change? And please don't tell us it's gonna be national media, because it's just gonna be party media. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Honest.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u901	Thank you. Mr Piotr Misilo, Modern, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u902	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask, if such an opportunity arises, will you want to liquidate the National Radio and Television Council, and if such an opportunity arises, will you eliminate the regional branches of the Polish Television? And I have another question about Polonia TV, because it is available in the USA and Canada only through paid platforms. I wanted to ask why Polish citizens do not have the opportunity to watch TVP at no cost. On-line transmission is possible in the age of the Internet. Why doesn't TV Poland broadcast electronically? [[But these are questions...]] Does the agreement concluded in 1994 between the Spanish Enterprises and the Polish Television affect the lack of free access to the TVP Polonia programme? Does TV Poland receive financial benefits under the above agreement? If so, what is the sum? What's his share of sales revenue? Very much so, Prime Minister, please respond in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u903	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Modernzna, has the floor. [[What does that finger mean?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u904	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! We are very naive to ask you questions because these questions make no sense. [[Applause]] People who ask questions have the right to an answer or hope. Our life, our existence, is about constantly asking each other questions. Today in the Polish Parliament this possibility actually ceased to exist. But I would like to ask and address this question to you on the right hand side, also to the Prime Minister, if you are not afraid that we are about to enter a straight path into the dictatorship, if you are not afraid that in a moment... [[Voice from the room: Please stop lying.]] ...you're gonna go on TV channels? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Propaganda. One big propaganda.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u905	Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u906	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's before 1:00 in the morning. Once again, under the cover of the night, you are pushing what I understand is a shame to push through in the day, right? There's less time at night to look yourself in the face, I understand. [[All the cameras are here.]] And there's something sick about it, too, that one guy in Poland likes to work nights, sleep longer, and the Sejm has to sleep at night, the Senate has to work nights, the president also has to work nights. [[The president likes it.]] If you've done such nasty things as the Constitutional Tribunal, with the pardon of the president's friends, you've got to make sure it's shown in the right way in the public media. I understand that's what this bill is for, to bring your people into public media. [[Applause]] What you did with the public media, we remember. Lechia Gdansk - Warta Poznań to show the Convention on Law and Justice from Białystok was already a problem. [[Voice from the room: What are you doing with the media right now?]] I'm just going to quote the titles of the press articles from your time in the media: TVP under PiS's lavish rule And no strategy. Zibro saved Urbana. Zibro recommended Kotecka Urbanski. Kotecka made a written explanation about Ziobra's laptop. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Kotecka: It is not true that I have assembled the President's message.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u907	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u908	TVP Ethics Commission: There was a breach of ethics at the Information Agency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u909	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Modern. [[He read a little, he knows how to read.]] [[Unlike you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u910	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'm not gonna tell you again that we're doing it again at night... [[He's good, he's very good.]] ...we're watching you do another demolition. Public media is a thing that reminds me of the first period of PiS rule. I'll be honest with you, I'm actually happy for you. And my question is, have you prepared a motion to terminate Parliament? Because after two years, when you had all possible institutions, ministries, media... Did you guys do okay? You couldn't handle it. You're too weak. [[Applause]] Today's project really, when it comes to intellectual effort... You've been talking about the media bill for months. What do you bring? You bring such an order to a good cause - ordering the directors of public media and supervisory boards to be dismissed. I won't ask you again if you're ashamed, but it's just embarrassing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u911	Mrs Elżbieta Borowska, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u912	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! As I have already mentioned in my speech, the new media policy should be invited and journalistic environments and NGOs. Is there any timetable for this next media law, if we're going to take care of it? As soon as possible? [[Voice from the room: At 5 in the morning will be available at the bottom.]] When will the members of the cultural committee be able to get acquainted with this plan, because so far we don't know anything about it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u913	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Marek Jakubiak, Kukiz.15
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u914	It's so simple that I came without a card. [[Let her learn Modern.]] We have come again to debate simple and uncomplicated topics. There's a new owner. In a joint stock company, he changes the board according to his own definition, because he owns it, and that's all he talks about. And what the hell's the point of all this? [[Applause]] Is the media... And I'm sorry, the PO didn't do it like that, did it? Are there one-sided media today? They may not be one-sided, but I recall the live coverage... [[What do you mean they're not?]] ...from the demonstration of the CODE one day and the demonstration of the PiS literally the next practically the next day. [[Voice from the room: Two worlds.]] One was shown from 20 meters high and the other from 2 meters high, by accident of course. The PO Member says, "Wolf law." It's not a fox, is it? Thank you. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u915	Thank you, sir. Mr Piotr Liroy-March, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u916	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The bill proposed today by the PiS Members serves only... [[We don't read...]] ...the exchange of public media. [[Yes.]] This exchange is needed, I do not intend to oppose it at all, and it was clearly visible what the media could do, even during a referendum, as this referendum was pushed into the corner and unfortunately died there. [[Applause]] I am here today primarily because the citizens sent me, I am the messenger of these citizens. Many citizens are waiting for a change in the media. [[Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: We are all here.]] Yes, but you often forget that you are, unfortunately. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Many citizens are waiting for this change, but this change must not mean changing the PO-WS media to the PiS media. [[Of course not.]] Public media is civil media, and let's not forget that. That's why I have to ask on behalf of all my constituents who asked me to do this: [[♪ The bell ♪]] System changes in the media? [[Voice from the room: Soon.]] When's the new subscription bill? [[Voice from the hall: March.]] And how are you going to defy the public media? Because that's a very important question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u917	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Długi, Kukiz Poselski Club15 has the floor. [[Thank you, I've said everything.]] Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u918	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, two quotes. If the media imagine that they will occupy Poles in the coming months with criticism of our changes, then we must stop. And a second quote. Public media criticize the government. In democracy, it's unacceptable. [[Manipulation!]] [[Voice from the room: Do not manipulate.]] These two quotes are the essence of media relations, so far public, governing party, to media, to which PiS plans to impose a muzzle and turn them into the media of PiS-owskie. So stop using words such as reformation, because this is just a mockery of your actions. For the public media, difficult times are coming. The beginning of the changes, so far, personal, is a proposal to eliminate competitions for the positions of board members and media presidents. You don't even make appearances, you use big words for mediocre acts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Sad, sad, incomprehensible action, you destroy Poland in pieces.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u919	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u920	Your power will also pass away, but if you look into your eyes...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u921	Time's up, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u922	...your children and grandchildren? [[Applause]] [[I'm proud of you, ma'am.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u923	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[I wanted a formal application.]] [[Formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u924	Mr. Marshal! I wanted to ask the Prime Minister what the rush was. This project wasn't part of your election program. You didn't tell the Poles that you were going to fire all the journalists you didn't like. You didn't say you were gonna convert ministries to throw out all your employees. I wanted to ask you who prepared this project and if you have a list of employees you want to fire. [[That's the kind of letter you had.]] With you, sir. I don't argue with Suski. [[Voice from the room: Pity...]] I don't have much time for you and I don't have much time for what I've said. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]] [[I don't discuss it either.]] So for the first time, if you take this discussion seriously, if you take the opposition seriously, please stand up and answer these questions... [[Voice from the hall: She doesn't like being told the truth to her eyes.]] ...because in this room you're used to your arrogance that you don't answer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: You lied for eight years.]] But he wore a wolf...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u925	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u926	...times a few, carried and the wolf. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the O.R.: We're not going back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u927	The formal proposal was made by Mrs Izabela Kloc.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u928	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's been mentioned here several times that I haven't said... [[That's a formal conclusion?]] [[Voice from the room: What is the formal conclusion?]] ...that's the words that you quoted from the editor Eliza Michalik from TV Superstation: Public media criticize the government. In democracy, it's unacceptable. I wanted to turn... [[In what mode?]] ...with a request for a break and the Senior Convention to explain the situation of this manipulation... [[Applause]] [[Bravo, very good.]] ...and in order to justify this, I quote my true statement: If you have arguments, you have to have the opportunity to put these arguments out, and today is the situation that the public media have taken the lead and stated that at the moment their role is to defend the interests of the parliamentary opposition PO-PSL, and the PiS, which has the voice of most Poles in Poland, is set to an angle. There is a total criticism of what PiS does, and public media above all... [[Is that an explanation?]] ...should serve Poles. They are intended to serve reliable information, so that Poles in a reliable way...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u929	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u930	...and they found out in concrete terms, [[♪ The bell ♪]] what the government is planning and doing.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u931	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u932	And today, the public media are only criticizing the government. It's in democracy... [[Vice-Marshal Stanisław Tyszka disables the microphone by Izabela Kloc]] [[Unacceptable.]] [[That's the point.]] [[Voice from the hall: That's not gonna happen on TV.]] [[Voice from the room: Watch TVP Info.]] [[It came out of the bag.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u933	Thank you, Member. Please leave the podium. The Convention calls a marshal, the Marshal will be informed of your request. Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u934	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants. Answer honestly how deep the public media's purgatory will be, because you admit that these four short articles are not about any reform, they're about staff. Just admit what it's gonna look like. I have another question for Prime Minister Gowin, who just appeared in the courtroom... [[This is the entrance.]] ...because in February 2007 you said: Independence of public media is one of the fundamental canons of democracy. You criticized Mr. Urbanski's appointment as president of the media at the time. I have a second question for the Prime Minister. How do you feel as a stateman, a declared stateman with everything that's going on with public institutions right now? In conclusion, I would like to present to the Prime Minister one quote, the words of Father Józef Tischner: Prime Minister, at any moment we can rise above ourselves and start all over again. [[Applause]] [[But you're great.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u935	Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform. [[But the unbeliever is.]] [[Margaret Kidawa-Błońska: At least Tischner knows.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u936	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Yes, it's true, it's one of your fellow Members who said that he doesn't need any cards, but I specifically brought this bill, which is actually funny, which, in fact, you do with everything, because especially underneath you... [[Voice from the room: You're not funny.]] ...all the media are still free at this point. [[What free media? Don't lie to me. Free of the truth.]] I will address the honourable Member, Minister Beata Kempy. Mrs Beato, today the Member said... [[Free of the truth.]] ...that it's gonna be normal and it's all gonna be coffee on the bench. [[Me?]] Yeah, on the occasion of a civil service change. [[You're funny.]] So why didn't you write down in the first amendment that the members of the board, including the chairman of the board, appoint and dismiss the minister responsible for the State Treasury... [[Don't embarrass Zgierz.]] ...after consulting the President. That's one thing. [[Oh, Jesus.]] Second of all, I have a question for you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] From what I understand...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u937	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u938	...with competence in the field of radio and television... [[Voice from the room: Report an amendment.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u939	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u940	I understand you're gonna demand that this person, once, know the president, and two... [[Voice from the room: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u941	Mr President, please leave the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u942	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u943	Thank you. [[Voice from the Chamber: We will support this amendment, Mr President.]] Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u944	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I have one brief question and one request. The question is this. I would like to know the amount that will have to be allocated to checks on all members of the supervisory boards and members of the boards. And here's a request. I'm gonna confide in you a little bit. I'm one of those very few elites who's never had a TV in her life, so I'm not gonna talk about TV. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Lucky for you.]] On the other hand, I enjoy and enjoy listening to public radio stations. As far as regional radio stations are concerned, I am not going to talk about each of the 17 centres, but a few that I know are really high levels and set standards that commercial radios can't even get close to. Please keep this standard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u945	Thank you, sir. Mr Wojciech Król, Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u946	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, Marshal Terlecki, quoted above, made it clear what the change is about. It did not like the fact that Members of Law and Justice, the government, are being criticised in public media. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if you've noticed, but the great majority of journalists criticize you because they really praise you for nothing. [[We can do this.]] In his statement today, Marshal Terlecki actually insulted public media journalists, saying that their work is extremely unreliable. I would like to ask what this integrity is to be like for you. [[Reliable.]] You really want Poland to become a country of inverted meanings, where the truth will become a lie, and the lie will become the truth. These are your public media... [[Right now, it's all a lie. Turn on the TV, please turn on the news.]] ...which today is public, tomorrow will be national and the day after the party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: They'll be national.]] [[King Wojciech I.]] [[The voice from the hall: The People's Tribune...]] [[Comrades and comrades...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u947	Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u948	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a justification for this project, you have pointed out very noble objectives, that it is necessary to improve the objectivity of the media, that they must better serve the public interest, that they must provide reliable information, etc., ensure pluralism, objectively serve the people and citizens. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to know how you want to ensure this, since you are eliminating the appointment of members of supervisory boards and boards by means of open competitions, public, with certain procedures, with certain requirements, with a certain cadence of the authorities, and everything is to be in the hands of one party minister, who can at any time appoint, whomever he wants, cancel, whomever he wants, for any term of office. He can do it anytime. What is the difference between this mode of calling public media authorities and the mode in force in the previous system and the mode in force in the appointment of Commissioners during the martial law? [[You know exactly what it is.]] What's the difference? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you want to ensure... [[Don't insinuate...]] ...to achieve the noble goals you are talking about, changing the mode of calling public media authorities in this way? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u949	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u950	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! As it happens, I've spent over a decade in the paper, I've lived out of it, and I have some bad news for you. [[Voice from the room: The banner polished...]] In fact, he told the pot kettle. It's a party class, no one else, ruined journalism. You turned a journalist into a party officer, made a caste of party journalists. [[Where?]] In this country. [[Applause]] And you, from law and justice to platform, owe it to them. No one else. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Who exactly...]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are already talking about Polish-speaking media today, not Polish-TV, you are talking about media today, whose card is a journalist with the title: Hyena of the Year. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about party media that have nothing to do with citizenship. If they cannot be objective, let them be at least Polish. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u951	Thank you, sir. Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor. [[Which party did you serve on this TV?]] [[Me? Citizens.]] [[The only clean one?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u952	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult to find the grounds for the law on public media so quickly. Is it appropriate to give up vacathio legis at the media law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u953	Thank you, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u954	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! In a democratic state, the right to the main functions of public media include an information function, an opinion-making function and a control function. You guys, these functions... [[And you're right, yes.]] ...you're trying to change. You want to replace the information function with the reporting function from the life of power, the opinion function with the function of spreading the laws, and the control function... [[That's the way it is so far.]] ...a glorious function, praising the government and the ruling party. Therefore, I ask the question: Are you able and in your opinion is it fair for the members of the governing party to supervise the functioning of public media? [[That's how it's been so far, that's how it's been so far.]] Do you guarantee that they will be independent and that no one will bring ready-made questions before the interview to indicate to the rulers? [[Yes, it will be democratic and independent television for everyone.]] After reading this law, you want to say one sentence: here is your good change, the freedom of the media trampled on. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u955	Mr Mark Owl, Civic Platform, has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u956	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Probably how many I am also impressed by the sincerity of Marshal Terletki's statement, which - I quote here for the media - said today: if the media imagines that they will occupy Poles with criticism of change, it must be stopped. I'm surprised to hear you say that, because if my memory is correct, you are Marshal Terlecki in the past system, so-called. The communes, was the person who created free media, was among those who in free Poland founded the first independent journal - Cracow time, was the person who encouraged the journalism of many young people, including my brother. Today, Mr. Marshal is the face of an assassination attempt on one of the fundamental freedoms - freedom of speech and independent media. I do not want to believe that you are pushing a sort of verification commission in the person of the Minister of the Treasury, who will lead a purgatory on the boards of public television and radio. Does the marshal really want to be remembered as a free media gravedigger? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Kazik doesn't have free media...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u957	Mr Michał Kaminski, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[The voice from the hall: The expert, the PR guy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u958	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have questions, such as to say, even positive, because I highly appreciated in the draft law, in the justification for stating that ethical criteria will be very important in the selection of these public media managers. I have a question: Is being the secretary of the primary party organization in Program 3 of Polish Radio at a time when the people's power wore workers in Radom, a criterion that would promote promotion to an important position or not? I also have a question about whether or not. non-compliance with the teaching of the Church in personal life will be a criterion that will help to occupy important positions in public media or not. I've got a question for you, too. someone who, like one of the people in the explanatory memorandum [[♪ The bell ♪]] redemption of the case about...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u959	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u960	...pedophilia says there's really nothing wrong...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u961	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u962	...in contact with the children of people... [[Member Michał Kaminski speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u963	Thank you, sir. Please leave the podium. [[Voice from the room: Get down.]] [[Voice from the room: Come down, come down.]] [[The voice from the hall: Your shirt came out.]] [[But I don't think we've been there for you.]] Mrs Lydia Gądek, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u964	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! It's a weird habit. Recently we sang: Quiet night, holy night, and in the Seym we sing all the time: Quiet night, sad night. [[Touchdown, applause]] [[The voice from the room: But she invented it.]] And every moment it ends, it still ends with the introduction of new, surprising laws projects for all of us and our constituents. The Prime Minister stressed in her exposé, and the President also said that now in Poland the law will be created so that all projects will be subject to extensive public consultation so that all expert groups, interested citizens can express themselves. And here's another consult. And more than that, in one day, actually in one night. And without a vacathio legis. Another project. What are you really afraid of? [[We? Nothing.]] So that the Poles would not say that they did not like it? And the media? Well, you want to change the facts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To show the facts your way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u965	Thank you, Member. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u966	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The new law on public media, as well as the way in which it is dealt with, is another proof of the way in which the Law and Justice seek to rule. [[For democracy.]] We're gonna have more uniformed powers to keep an eye on the citizens... [[Don't lie to me.]] ...changes in the Constitutional Court... [[Don't manipulate me.]] ...and now we are looking at new developments concerning public media, which in a democratic country should boast as much as possible of impartiality and objectivity. Orwell's assumptions are being put into practice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In this regard, I have a question: Does Law and Justice have censorship in its purposes? And the second question is: With which environments and institutions legally authorized to express their opinions the Act on... [[And she's lost.]] [[Go ahead.]] ...authorised to express their views on the Public Media Act [[♪ The bell ♪]] Was she consulted? You're acting like a scumbag! [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u967	Thank you, Member. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u968	If the marshal wanted to take some control of the room. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Membership! I thought I wasn't gonna be surprised in this room anymore, but it does feel like... [[A little more, a little more...]] ...which man remembers for a long time. And today I will remember the club speech by the Member who represented Law and Justice, because she was so beautifully describing public media, talking about media missions, about the quality of programs, talking about ethos, about freedom, about traditions, about Christian values, she mentioned something about the good of the national community... [[That pretty?]] ...the Polish state of affairs, the pillars of national media. I signed it out because I was worried I couldn't remember it. [[And learn, and learn.]] A little culture, sir, a little culture. [[This is a hopeless case.]] But the real shock is the recipe for those national media you have, because the PiS prescription is just an exchange of personnel. You guys aren't even into competitions. I'm afraid at second reading you'll be able to write the names of candidates for public media positions in the bill. It's a shame. It's a shame. You do not consider one thing: that today, in the media age [[♪ The bell ♪]] Socialists...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u969	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u970	...a nation that you so often rely on, first of all, can't take away freedom of speech, and second of all, it has a pilot and it's just gonna shut you down. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u971	Mr Mirosław Pampuch, Modern. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[That's right.]] [[The nation just turned you off as a pilot.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u972	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Members! It is difficult for you to discuss substantive arguments, because you simply do not listen to these arguments. [[Voice from the room: You don't have one.]] But today's... [[Voice from the room: He's already said.]] ...the media bill found its justification in the words... [[Why don't you put some kind of bill on the marshal's staff?]] ...president of Mr. Terletki's PiS club. So you're not even trying to build a facade. You're not even trying to pretend like you're making a good change in public media. You're saying it's important to change boards so public media doesn't criticize your actions. [[But the original statement, sir?]] Then why don't you go ahead and put it on the bill so every news service will be praised by the government, the President, the President. It's okay for you to vote on it. [[Voice from the room: This is right now.]] Go all the way. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: But it's great.]] [[Eight years...]] [[Voice from the room: This is brilliant.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u973	Mrs Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform. [[That's great. Make it quick.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u974	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That's a question that spends a lot of people's dreams, and I'm gonna read it... [[Voice from the room: Anything with understanding.]] From the justification of the media law: The proposed changes will contribute not only to rationalising and reducing the management costs of public broadcasting companies, but also to restoring professional and ethical standards required by the public service mission referred to in Article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 amendment of the Act on Radiophony and Television. I have a question: How will the selection of new radio and television authorities proceed? How does the Treasury Minister intend to check the candidate's ethical standards? One of the newspapers recently published a test entitled:: Will you get a job from Law and Justice? They asked: Have you been to PZPR? - I wasn't. - Do you believe in the bombing? - I don't believe it. This will be a test of professional and ethical competence on Polish radio and television. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Very bad jokes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u975	Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Insulting.]] [[It's insulting.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Gentlemen, a little culture.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u976	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Gliński! Referring to the role of Deputy Minister Jack Kurski, you said you were calling him to analyze the ministerial structure. First of all, I wanted to ask, what does that mean and what does Jacek Kurski mean? Is he really in the ministry? [[Because he's interested in Jack Kurski.]] In the spring of one of Jacek Kurski's interviews, he said: I do the media in the reflex of truth. I wanted to ask: Is this the government's only and official position today about this bill? Although I also have a warning for you: the dark people will not buy it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[He won't.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u977	Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] [[Specialist in everything.]] [[But look, he changed his shirt.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u978	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! There's a scene in the movie, the man from the marble, when the young journalist, Mrs. Agnieszka, walks down the hall and maybe quarrels with the superintendent, but the editor. Speaking of which, he really wants to pursue. He answers: This is the subject you want to do, and we need to ask ourselves if this is needed. Me, then institutions, TV, and there are the '50s, dark sides, colossal logs... [[So the whole government of the Platform you're presenting now, that's what the government of the Civic Platform looked like.]] ...you're messing with me because these are reserved topics. I'd rather you did something else. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, want to introduce such party super-editors... [[That's what happened for eight years.]] ...often with the PiS card, because such happen in the media with you sympathizers, former members, councillors of the PiS who consider themselves independent, so that they decide what it is something else... [[Voice from the room: 3 seconds.]] ...or what this subject is about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it restricted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u979	Thank you. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Modern. [[It's unbelievable.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u980	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! Please explain: Isn't this project an attempt to suppress freedom of expression? Please specify: On what specific actions of the parliamentary majority should the media criticism of the PiS rule be based? Will the new public media board elected by the treasure minister, like Hungary, punish the media for unsustainable political publications? Whether the new furnishings of public media boards are intended to create a controlled transmission of the so-called glorifying media. A good change in the style of Law and Justice? Will those journalists who do not adapt and enter the night-made national media shoes be extinguished, like the Constitutional Court? And here's the question... [[Voice from the room: You show yourself.]] ...with the pure intention of caring for the fate of the parliamentary majority and the Government of Law and Justice, because the old Polish rule states that who is fighting with the media... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u981	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u982	...the media guy dies. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We can do it!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u983	Mr Jan Grabiec, Civic Platform, has a voice. [[That's the truth we lie about.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u984	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! State management may be like driving a car. As a parliamentary majority, you were hired by the nation to drive this car safely for four years. You just started driving... [[Voice from the room: We can do this.]] ...that car from pulling out the brakes and moving them into the trunk so you can drive faster... [[Voice from the room: Slots.]] ...because the Constitutional Tribunal can hold you back in your political plans. Later... [[But the brakes can't be removed!]] ...instead of fuel for the tank, you pour water, because the civil service created by competitions is a problem, better to choose your own without competitions... [[Voice from the hall: Good speech, really.]] ...and unqualified. And tonight, tonight, you're proposing that you blur the windows of this car, because this picture that may be seen by your car's passengers might not like it, it's a picture that's defined by the driver. [[Voice from the room: Late time...]] Like, ladies and gentlemen, you want to drive this car like the Polish state, Prime Minister, how you want to drive it safely, [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you're behind the wheel...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u985	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u986	...captured by a person sitting in a passenger seat and not having a driver's license? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u987	Thank you. Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform. [[Isn't it better to get some sleep, sir?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u988	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I will allow myself no longer to quote these two statements that have become a hit of the Internet today... [[Thank you.]] ...but I would like to thank the honourable Member for correcting, supplementing her statement and saying that the media... [[She told the truth.]] ...have taken care of themselves. Public media are dealing with government criticism. Oops... there's a huge threat... [[You explained.]] ...respectful folks, you're being criticized. How is that possible? After all, you are the only right party, the only... [[We've been here 10 years and we're doing it. Ten years.]] ...you preach the true truth, you do the will of the nation. It's all for the good of the Poles. And in this courtroom, we're asking for some competitions, some competence... [[About the break...]] ...for transparency, transparency. What's the point, ladies and gentlemen? There's no point. I would only advise you to read stories from the 1970s, some of you will surely remember when there were slogans about the construction of the second Poland, when both the school system and the administrative system were reorganized. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u989	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u990	Ladies and gentlemen, scandal! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u991	Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u992	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo!.... [[What's with the red?]] Recently, before Christmas Eve, the Poles watched the show, in which you destroyed it, finished the Constitutional Tribunal. The Poles were watching because the changes in the media will no longer allow them to watch such performances. But what I'm trying to say is that I'm looking at you, and I don't know where you're getting this kind of weather... these incredible smiley faces. There is one contribution you make to democracy, and it is - here I am convinced. More and more people talk, I hear about it, and I think my colleagues also think that the biggest mistake they've made is that they've never taken part in the election. Now they're convinced that they're definitely going to take part in the election, so I'm sure... [[They're gonna vote for us.]] ... undoubtedly, ladies and gentlemen... [[Voice from the room: There will be democracy. It's not Belarus.]] ...in the forthcoming elections you will be summarized with a higher turnout. [[The platform has been summarized.]] As far as questions are concerned. What do you think lies within the notion of national media? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The criteria will be...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u993	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u994	...they had to meet new candidates for board members and board members?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u995	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u996	Will the only criterion be belonging...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u997	Member, please leave the stand. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u998	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo!.... [[This one's good.]] August 14th this year Ms Krystyna Pawłowicz posted on her online profile an inexcusable entry concerning the alleged leave of one of the public media reporters. I quote: "It's time to rest from such a specialized class. In the autumn, the new authority will have to take care of your health, and perhaps I will pay for your cycle of journalism lectures at the University of Social and Media Culture in Toruń. The author of those words signed it. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I have a question for Mrs Pavlovich. Could you explain exactly what a vacation means in her dictionary? Will all public media journalists now have to attend school courses in Toruń? If so, then the second question: Is at your own expense, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Or at the expense of Mrs Pavlowicz? And another question. [[Voice from the room: No, at Bure's.]] [[I'll pay.]] Will the creation of a media law affect the agreements concluded by... [[The voice from the hall: Bury will pay.]] ... TVP for international sports events? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u999	Ms Urszula Pasławska, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Most of them won't pass their exams there.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1000	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: until it turned red.]] Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo!.... [[Take it easy.]] In recent weeks you have funded Poland, Poles and Poles jumps. Let me remind you: the Bureau jump... [[Voice from the room: Good changes.]] ...jumping to the Special Services Commission, jumping to the Court... [[But don't lie to me, Member, you mustn't lie to me.]] ... Constitutional, today's media jump. [[Voice from the Chamber: Member, please step down.]] [[Voice from the room: There's going to be a jump from the platform.]] Can you ask them to be quiet?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1001	Yes. I'm asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1002	And I have this... [[Voice from the gym: It's a cashier's fee.]] ...a hunch and a feeling that I think you're... [[There's gonna be a jump on Elewarr.]] ...you guys got too excited about getting ready for the ski season. But, of course, the situation is very serious, because you realize that every country that introduces a regime is primarily subject to institutional and subjective media. What a question. [[Voice from the room: In the days of the Soviet Union.]] I have two questions. First of all, are you... [[A democracy like you Bartoszcze kicked out of the convention...]] ...you predict within...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1003	But let me...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1004	I can't ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1005	...to ask you a question. You're welcome. [[We'll lock up Elewarr, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1006	The question's about that. Does the new vision of national media provide for the execution of a public mission, as so far? If so, the election of the Management Board and the President should take place [[Game in the O.R.]] by means of a competition, so as to select the best possible candidates or candidates. And when it comes to the exercise of service orders only, such competitions will not really be needed. And the second question is, what about the independence of journalists? Who's gonna oversee their work?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1007	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1008	It's being supervised by the editors of the warden today. Will the work of journalists be supervised by politicians? Thank you very much. [[The competitions are gonna be better...]] [[The competitions on the tapes were.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1009	Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1010	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the left, on the right, in the middle - everyone likes change. But good changes. [[Good changes.]] Good changes. [[Voice from the room: These will be good changes.]] [[And they've finally lived to see it.]] What is the reason for eliminating the term of office of the board of directors and the board of directors? What's he like? [[It was said, sir, it was spoken.]] Is this change supposed to be about the fact that if there are critical statements in the media, they're going to change presidents? [[No.]] You can't, [[Joy in the Chamber]] You can't heal someone with plague or cholera. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1011	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1012	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Prime Minister! [[Voice from the hall: We do not read, we do not read.]] From today's statements of the politicians of the PiS are different... [[Voice from the room: We do not read.]] ...expressions and I wonder that these public media are so much your interest... [[No, you're interested.]] ...that there's some incorrect information coming in. Please give me five such detailed examples in 2013 and 2014 that the media have spoken ill of the Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I'll prepare for you, sir.]] And by the way, I think the election for presidents and for the board of directors will be like in the movie Bear: Łubu-dubu, Łubu-dubu, long live the club president! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1013	Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Voice from the room: There isn't. Next.]] There isn't. Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party, has the floor. There it is. [[Come on, Krystek, come on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1014	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Christopher, how's Bury?]] I'm so glad you're all so alive. Half past two o'clock, and the state's up for work. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: We can do this.]] [[Voice from the room: We'll clean it up.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your law proposes to change the name: from public media to national media. What does that mean in practice? Today the media broadcasts in Polish, broadcasts and retransmissions from state events, celebrations and holidays. [[Voice from the room: You speak well.]] So what is to change besides the name and, of course, the president, which you obviously care most about, ladies and gentlemen? [[Well, you'll see.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1015	Thank you. Mr Zdzisław Gawlik, Civic Platform, has the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Where's the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1016	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I think it is too much abuse to define what is referred to in the proposed new law on radio and television, the term "reform." This is not a reform, perhaps even a small reform. [[Democracy.]] It would be better to change the name of this law and simply say that it is a law on the change of corporate authorities on boards... [[Voice from the hall: Something about thieves in the yard say.]] ...and company boards. I think it would be worth referring not only to those who are to leave, but also to extend these solutions for the future. Because please note: in the draft novel, you only deal with those who leave, talking about the size of their briefings and competitive clauses. If there is such a solution, then it should be provided for all. The quality of this bill is what it is, and I'm not getting divorced here. Please weigh on the article. 2 (2) 1. You're telling me the moment the authorities in the company expire. Can it happen that these companies will be without organs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Who will then be responsible for the situation?" Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1017	Thank you. Mr. Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] [[They all signed up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1018	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Using the presence of the Prime Minister, I would like to return to the questions I have asked and during the debate on the exposé that the Prime Minister delivered in November... [[Voice from the room: Another question: What happened in Frankfurt?]] ...and during today's debate on the draft budget. Well, during the election campaign, we have often heard promises of many laws, good changes... [[Voice from the hall: What's up in the Schengen area, Frankfurt airport?]] ...which the Prime Minister presented on 6 October in Lublin about the fossil tax, whether it was in the debate when you presented a briefcase with countless... [[What's up?]] ...the number of projects that were supposed to change Poland for the better. We've been given, in fact, a change project, such as a civil service jump, an extension of surveillance by the Secret Service... [[Don't lie to me, sir.]] ...and today's public media jump. [[Don't stutter.]] Prime Minister, is this the only proposal... [[It's enough that TV is lying. Don't lie to me. TV's lying and you're lying.]] ...the only draft laws you had to propose to the Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1019	Mr Leszek Ruszczyk, Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: 2 million wiretappings during your reign was!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1020	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: 2 million wiretap!]] [[Mr. Marshal, maybe some kind of melissa for your envoy? You act crazy sometimes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1021	Okay, calm down. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1022	I'll start again. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1023	Calm down, please. [[The voice from the hall: I say the truth!]] [[Have some melissa.]] [[Voice from the room: Would you please calm down?]] It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1024	Mr. Marshal, I'll start again.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1025	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1026	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! History is known for example in the country where all the services informed about the golden thoughts of the Sun of the Carpathian. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We do not read.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is Poland.]] I hope that's not what PiS is about in our country. [[Poland has been such a country since 2007.]] Is the media bill all about getting politicians to decide what the media is supposed to inform? [[Yes.]] Is that what this bill is supposed to do? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1027	Thank you. Mr Marek Suski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1028	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Members of the applicants: Is it true that the instructions for public television were written in the Council of Ministers' office under the Civic Platform? [[Applause]] That's the first thing. [[Voice from the room: Is this a question for the applicant?]] And is that true... [[Voice from the room: No.]] ...that the Hurry-Up program was taken off the air when he wanted to talk about uncomfortable things, and he was forbidden to invite uncomfortable guest platforms to this program for the government? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't.]] And the question is, what is this independent and unpolitical television you're defending? I have the question of the nature of the employment of your sonik's wife on public television. [[Applause]] [[Bravo.]] And in what capacity was the son of the Man's servant employed? Are you fighting for this independent and unpolitical TV? Because the fact that you're crying so much about it today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That there's going to be a good change for TV, that's just defending your...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1029	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1030	...little lies. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1031	Mrs Elizabeth Stępień, Moderna, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1032	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! We have a media bill, but we also have a strong media atmosphere at this hour. On this occasion, I would like to ask such a question. [[So it's not under the cover of the night?]] That is to say, paragraph 1 of the Act is repealed. 6 as follows: A member of the Management Board may be dismissed in the event of a conviction by a final judgment of the court for an intentional offence prosecuted by a public charge or a tax offence, acts to the detriment of the company, circumstances permanently preventing the performance of his duties. Mouth elimination. 6 allows board members to commit a crime, be convicted illegally, await a pardon from the President and continue to act as a member of the board. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1033	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Mrs Barbara Bubula.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1034	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! The questions were very many, not all addressed to applicants, some addressed to other addressees, and some were merely political statements. But the ones that somehow managed to get out of that mass of voices I'd like to answer. [[From the mass, as it sounded.]] Firstly and most importantly, I stress once again that this law is a transitional act until a very near moment, to present a thorough reform of both the structure, the form of action and the financing of national media. That law will be presented in a short time, this is a period of a few weeks, months, and of course rapid action is needed, and that is precisely because the situation in public media is such that it calls for rapid and thorough changes. I would like to remind you that this is television and Polish Radio, in which the supervisory boards were set up by three political groups - the Civic Platform, the Polish People's Party and the SLD, that almost every managerial function in these media is companyed by one of these groups, that these are media in which, in the case of the Polish Television, in recent times, 400 journalists have been expelled from work by practically famous outsourcing law, [[Applause]] breaking up journalistic teams and destroying the tradition of Polish Television, that they are media in which in the main news edition, which presents and teaches Poles how to interpret reality, were disgusted the views which represent Law and Justice. The public has not been informed about the actions of the Law and Justice for years, while the views have been proclaimed... [[How did you win the election?]] ...the ones that were to tell Poles that they would definitely have to get rid of Polish land, that they would definitely have to get rid of the Polish currency, that there would certainly be legalization of single-sex unions in our country and will adopt children and that trade unions would have to disappear in our country. Such views have been preached on a regular basis, many times in these messages. In this connection, it is clear that the new law will be a law consulted with wide-ranging environments, already consulted with wide-ranging environments, in particular the system of financing new media. Indeed, a completely new law on national media is needed, but it cannot be achieved that the drafting of this law will take place in a situation where the current public media authorities will act in the way they operate. That's why a quick change is needed. [[And a good change.]] We therefore propose that the law enter into force on the date of the announcement. We want the art to be properly implemented at last. 21 Act on radio and television talking about the mission of these media, because it is not so that the principle of reliability, impartiality, full information of Poles about what is happening in the country is being implemented there. It is not that these media play a role that is uncritical to the government, it is that the truth about what is happening in the country, not the propaganda message that aims at disturbing their vision of reality, is to reach out to the Poles. [[Applause]] And that is indeed the case since Law and Justice won the election, and it has been since President Andrzej Duda won the election. Because the victory of President Andrzej Duda took place and the victory of Law and Justice took place, because Poles found opportunities to reach the truth about reality outside the media, which were called public media. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1035	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal immediately, i.e. After a short three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 01 min. 32 hrs. 01 min 35]] We continue to consider item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on Radiophony and Television. [[Game in the O.R.]] In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, has sent this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Commission on Energy and the Treasury with a recommendation to submit a report to the committee enabling the draft law to be examined at the current meeting of the Sejm for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Not yet.]] I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, it's working. [[Voice from the room: The reader doesn't work.]] It's working. [[Voice from the room: Something's not working.]] [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 158 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Wait a minute, wait a minute.]] [[Voice from the room: Resummation, Mr. Marshal.]] 410 Members voted. The vote was 152 against - 228 and 30 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Energy and the Treasury with a recommendation to submit a report to the committee enabling the draft law to be examined at the current sitting of the Sejm for consideration. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 29 December this year. I would like to inform you that you have come forward with a view to making a declaration. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr Krzysztof Szydłowski, Law and Justice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Is there anyone else with you? Any of your fellow Members? Well, in that case, I think... And another Member. Here you go, Mr Szydłowski, Law and Justice. The second Member is reporting. Mr Szydlowski, right? Excuse me, sir. If no one else comes forward, I'm closing the list. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1036	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to be able to make this statement in a situation where there are still so many Members in the Chamber because there was no time in the debate before. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We have debated today, and we will continue to do so, on the amendment of the Civil Service Act, on a legal act which certainly had good assumptions, but in practice, in the general opinion, in the area of competitions carried out, it was a symbol of the corruption of the state. There's nothing worse than legitimizing pathology in the majesty of the law. This pathology, called by name, is for example. hiring for a contract according to the principle: I am giving you a candidate, and you will find for him, or you will publish a competition, it is repeating competitions, because the candidate did not like it, it is fabricating the terms of the competitions under the candidate, because he has nice eyes, he knows Spanish, although in a given position it is quite irrelevant, whether simply agreeing the course of the interview with the candidate, it is finally zakulisowe - but loud in the environment - fights of bulldogs, barons or other ointments of political promoters, so that more candidates with support than one become to fight. The confirmation of these facts can be found on such well-known tape recordings. Here I will use examples of quotes: You prepare a candidate for the vice-director, said the President of the Supreme Auditorium, previously a prominent activist of the Civic Platform, to the Member of the Polish People's Party. After the competition, he answered: Mr President, as they report, the task is done. And one more quote: I just got out of a conversation where I said that I hope that tomorrow there will be three good decisions: the cancellation of the competitions for the director in Rzeszów, vice-director and director in Warsaw. The authors of these words were the same people. Therefore, looking at the benches of the supposed defenders of democracy, I see in fact pathology defenders in many areas of our country's functioning. The only question is: Why have people been corrupted for so long by fiction and deception in the majesty of the law? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1037	There you go. That's where we left off... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice, she came forward before closing the list, but I do not see... Sorry, I can see that. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1038	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Bydgoszcz annual celebrations commemorating the anniversary of the events of Bydgoszcz November 1956 are held. This year is the 59th anniversary of these events. On 18 November 1956 an Irishman broke out in Bydgoszcz against communist power. Several thousand inhabitants of the city, singing the national anthem, Rota and church songs, attacked the seat of the Public Security Office, the City Committee of PZPR and burned the mast and the equipment of the station jamming the radio broadcasts of Free Europe, the BBC, the Voice of America, the station which symbolized censorship and restricting freedom of speech and information. The authorities of the Polish People's Republic have taken the leaders of the demonstration seriously and sentenced them to imprisonment. Their act was seen as a hooligan attack on state property, although it was in fact an act of destruction of the device of repression, which was a radio broadcast jamming station. The UB and PZPR buildings were virtually intact. Despite many efforts, it was not possible to rehabilitate those convicted in a trial that took place in January 1957. Among the prisoners there are only two today: Józef Borowski and Tadeusz Dziagielewski. They feel, like families of the dead, victims. Their grief is fully understandable, because the fighters for freedom and justice at the time of communism did not get rehabilitation and due respect, while the oppressors who used repression against the national heroes, not only did they not suffer the consequences of their reprehensible actions, they received or received rich pensions. I therefore appeal to the President and the Minister of Justice to make full rehabilitation of the leaders of the Bydgoszcz November 1956. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1039	Please. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1040	Statement on the 120th anniversary of Stefan Grot-Rowecki's birth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 25 December this year We celebrated the 120th anniversary of Stefan Rowecki's birth. Cave, Major General of the Polish Army, Chief of the Chief Military Union, Commander of the National Army, Military Theoretician. Stefan Grot-Rowecki was born on 25 December 1895 in Piotrków Trybunalski. At the age of 16, he became a co-organizer of the local secret scout squad, soon headed by him. For him, the youth scouting was a preparation for later military service and the fight against the assassins. In 1913 he joined the Polish Shooting Teams in Warsaw. After graduating from the Petty Officer's course in Rabka, he was in charge of 4. A platoon of the Company of Rifles in Warsaw. After the outbreak of the First World War, Stefan Grot-Rowecki strengthened the ranks of Polish Legions by Józef Piłsudski. He served in 1st and 5th. The infantry regiment. His battle baptism was a skirmish under the Ostrów. He remained on the front until 1917. During that time, he was seriously injured three times. After the oath crisis in the rank of lieutenant, he went to an internment camp in Benjaminów. At the beginning of 1918, Grot-Rowecki joined the Polish Armed Forces and then began his work as a lecturer. In November of the same year, he was involved in disarming German troops. A few months later, he was assigned a front assignment to 34. The infantry regiment. He attended training courses at the General Staff War School. During the Polish-Bolshevik War, Stefan Grot-Rowecki headed the South-East Front Division II, responsible for intelligence and counter-intelligence. He became famous for his handy exit from the Soviet lap in the Lutsk region. After the end of the war, he took part in complementary trainings at the Military College. Soon Grot-Rowecki became the head of the Scientific and Publishing Department of the Military Institute. He published many publications on military matters, he also founded the Military Review. In the '30s. 20th century Stefan Grot-Rowecki was in charge of 55. The Infantry regiment in Leszno, the Border Protection Corps Brigade, or was replaced by Commander 2. The Legion Infantry Division in Kielce. In June 1939, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) he was entrusted with the task of forming the Warsaw Pancerno-Motor Brigade. During the September campaign it was part of the Army of Lublin. After her surrender, Grot-Rowecki entered the capital. He then became chief of staff and deputy commander of the Polish Victory Service. In January of the following year he became Commander of Area No. 1 of the Armed Fighting Union. Six months later, he became chief of command of the OGM. By order of Stefan Grot-Rowecki at the Information and Propaganda Bureau, a cell was created, later transformed into the Self-Departmentary Division of N, dealing with diversion, psychological war and propaganda directed against Germany. On his initiative, too, many conspiracy organizations were merged into one underground army - the National Army. The activity of Grota-Rowecki resulted in him being placed by the Germans at the top of the list of Poles wanted. A special Gestapo cell was created to search for the Underworld leaders. 30 June 1943 Stefan Grot-Rowecki was arrested. He was transported to Berlin, where he refused to cooperate. He was placed in a concentration camp in Sachsenhausen. He was murdered between 2 and 7 August 1944 by order of the head of the SS of Heinrich Himmler. The location of his burial is not established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1041	I kindly explain that on 22 December 2015 during the 6th session of the Sejm, I made a mistake by expressing myself in item 15 of the agenda: Current information. Saying that about 50% cardiosurgical procedures are not justified, I meant cardiological procedures. I'm sorry for the mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-29-sejm-07-1.u1042	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 10. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 1 min 43]]
