ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u1	I open the sixth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski and Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk to the meeting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the first meeting, I declare that the minutes of that meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the second Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. High Senate, I inform you that on 15 October 2015, the President of the Council of Ministers gave the Senate a report on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2014. It is contained in print No 1106 VIII of the term of office. On 26 November 2015, the Senate Marshal sent this report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting on 9 December 2015 and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions at its meeting on 16 December 2015 took note of the report and informed the Marshal. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider point three of the draft agenda, although the committee's reports on the Western Institute Act. Zygmunt Wojciechowski was delivered at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of a vote of objection... [[Voice from the room: There's an objection...]] [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] There you go, who's against it? [[No, not now... thank you.]] No? In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that in the draft agenda sent to you there were laws which were not adopted by the Sejm. Where they are adopted by the Sejm at this sitting and if the committee's reports on these matters are prepared, the agenda may be supplemented by those laws. In addition, the agenda may be supplemented by other laws adopted by the Sejm at this sitting. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Senator Jan Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the procedure laid down in Article. 34 point 3 I asked your marshal to extend the agenda of the sixth meeting to include a point on the government's information on changes in staff in the economy at the level of not only government institutions but also companies, supervisory boards of institutions That's what I'd say. Public goods such as tax chambers, councils, special-purpose funds, as well as announcements of further changes. In my opinion, it is a streaming, sudden character. What is also important, the competition procedures or announcements on the search for specialists have been suspended so far. This means, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that not only political opponents were excluded from these functions, which may even be understandable. But also, like the Polish People's Republic, 99% of them were excluded. civil society with the capacity to carry out these functions. Surprisingly, Mr. Marshal didn't even mention such an offer. Therefore, please inform the High House of the reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Voice from the Chamber: This request has been made irregularly.]] Mr Senator, this request has been made irregularly, because it should be submitted in due time, 10 days before the meeting and has been submitted in a shorter period, so I did not inform the High House when I presented the order of today's proceedings. I'll inform you at the next meeting, I'm sure of it. But since the senator has asked such a question, I am saying that I have addressed this proposal to the economic committee to discuss this problem in the economic committee if the committee agrees. [[I'd still like to say, Mr. Marshal...]] But still in this case? [[Same case. And about what you said.]] You're welcome, Senator. [[Voice from the room: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] But slowly, Mr. Senator, we've been waiting for you...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u4	Yes, but as Mr. Marshal noted, every hour and every day counts. In this case, it was. On Sunday, 11 days before the meeting, which now lasts 2 days and not just 1 day, I made a proposal. Mr. Marshal was kind, I must say, to read it hard at 11:30 p.m., even bearing in mind that due to the mistakes of your laptop, the tablet was not passed on... I therefore believe that I have kept the urgency of the matter, and I stand for your marshal, if I may say so, to put this point in this order. I am not satisfied with putting this proposal on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. I have already made my decision, and I have informed the senator, and I will inform the High House once again at the next Senate meeting. Would any of you like to speak on the agenda? I can't hear you. I don't see any calls. I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at 12.15 a break will be ordered during which the exhibition will be opened, the Freedom Insignia organized on the 25th anniversary of the transfer of the symbols of the state power of the Second Republic of Poland. President Andrzej Duda will attend this ceremony. Then, at 1 p.m., the album will be presented in room 217.The post of the presidents of the Republic of Poland in exile will be held in 1939 and 1990. A Parliamentary fee meeting with the President and Cardinal Kazimierz Nycz, it seems that you will not be the President, but I am not sure It is scheduled for 13.30 a.m. At 3:30 p.m., I invite all senators and employees of the Senate Chancellery to a senate Christmas meeting in room 217. The Senate will resume its proceedings at 4:30 p.m. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 37 and the report of the Commission In print No 37A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Krystian Probier, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on the Environment on the Law amending the Water Law and the Act amending the Law on Water Law and certain other laws. That law fulfils the obligation to implement the provisions of Directive 2013/39/EC which amends Directives 2000/60/EC and 2008/105/EC. I would like to draw the attention of the High Senate to the fact that on 14 September 2015 the deadline for implementing the 2013 Water Policy Priority Substances Directive into our law has expired. If you don't mind, I'm going to make this general discussion of the law, and then I'm going to address it in more detail. That law gives the authority to issue an implementing act setting out the list of priority substances affecting the state of the waters. It also sets out clearly the duties of the Chief Environmental Officer and the President of the National Water Management Board. These changes provide opportunities and introduce an obligation for the ongoing monitoring of harmful substances entering surface and groundwater. This is the first group of proposed changes. The second group of amendments governed by the Act concerned flood risks and... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]] [[Quiet, please!]] ...the risk of flooding. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator!]] I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are maps drawn up by regional directorates showing the risk of flood or flood risk. The Act does not impose mandatory use of these maps in spatial planning, and that is what I consider to be its great advantage. The important thing is that local authorities need to determine the actual state of risk of flooding or areas where this risk may exist. The discussion has repeatedly highlighted the accuracy of these maps, the methodology for drawing them up. For my part, I would like to add that these maps are mainly the result of computer simulations, well, not always perfect. Self-governments, in my opinion and in the opinion of the committee, are best aware of the situation in their territory, and it is most sensible to leave them to decide whether or not to take these maps into account. If we adopt this law, it will certainly be unreasonable to ask what would happen if local governments were obliged to apply these maps, for example. in areas where simulations showed flooded areas with construction, with infrastructure. Third group of changes. This third group of amendments concerns water law permits. Here, let me remind you what water law permits are. It is a constitutional administrative act issued by water management bodies, in particular for the use of water in the operation of water equipment, groundwater treatment facilities, sewage treatment, water management in sinks and construction works in the field of water management, as well as drainage of constructions and mining plants. So far, water permits have been issued separately for every thing, even very small, which has disproportionately extended the duration of tasks by investors, citizens. Another group of amendments concerns the introduction of the notification obligation in this law, i.e. instead of the obligation to obtain a water licence, there will be an obligation to notify, which will perfectly simplify the procedure to date. There will also be the possibility of extending the list of activities that will be excluded from both the water law permit and the application. There will also be specific cases of activities which do not require water permits, which should significantly reduce the freedom of action of local officials. And the last group of changes refers to the ordering of cases concerning the appointment of the President of the National Water Management Board and regional water management directors. I would like to point out that the President and the Directors will be appointed by means of competitions, except that during a transitional period they shall be served by the person appointed by the Minister. And now, ladies and gentlemen, a little more details about these proposed changes. The implementation of the 2013 Directive is primarily based on the introduction of the definition of the terms "matrix' and "watchlist' in the Water Law. The Act also provides for the revision of the terms "privileged substance' and "specially harmful to the aquatic environment'. It also requires the establishment of a catalogue of responsibilities for the monitoring of waters by public administrations and the adoption of a list of priority substances and rules for monitoring them. According to Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 13j of this law by priority substances In this context, I would like to refer to the concept of "chemical pollutants of surface water" as well as the risk that may result in, in particular, acute and chronic toxicity to aquatic organisms, accumulation of pollutants in the ecosystem and loss of habitats and biodiversity, as well as risks to human health, and whose emissions to waters should be gradually reduced. These are the most important elements of this definition. Come on. On the basis of the article. A list of priority substances will be defined by Regulation 38l of the Act. The President of the National Water Management Board will draw up a list of emissions, discharges and losses of priority substances for each river basin area, taking into account the provisions of European Union law. The Chief Environmental Inspector will monitor substances particularly harmful to the aquatic environment included in the observation list for at least 12 months at at at least 15 representative measurement and control points. The Minister for Water Management has been required to submit a report to the European Commission covering the results of monitoring of substances particularly harmful to the aquatic environment on this observation list. In the current legal situation, art. 122 of the Law on Water Law defines a closed catalogue of projects requiring water law permits. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in section 14 of this novel it is proposed to add an article to the Act. 123a, the provision introducing the institution of the notification, shall be the subject of the notification. The notification will be subject to inter alia.: construction of a bridge up to 25 m in length; stopping in the waters of floating facilities or ships intended in particular for residential or service purposes; making bathing or designation of a place used for bathing, including in the territorial sea area; drainage of construction excavations; drainage of waters from these construction excavations and works in water; other works which may cause changes in natural flows of water, standing water and groundwater. The competent authority to accept the notification will be the competent local governor performing this task as a task of government administration, and if the notification concerns projects in closed areas The local director of the regional board. Of course, these notifications must be made before the date of the intended commencement of the activities, works or equipment or other activities subject to that obligation. The work may be carried out if, within 30 days of the date of service of the application, the competent authority does not raise, by decision, an objection and no later than 3 years after the date of commencement specified in the notification. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The amendment to Article 1 (9) was proposed. 89 of the Act - Water Law by introducing a solution enabling the President of the Council of Ministers to appoint a person acting as President of the National Management Board of Water Management until the appointment of the President elected by means of a competition. On the other hand, the Minister responsible for Water Management has been given the power to designate the Deputy President of the National Water Management Board, as well as the Director of the Regional Water Management Board until such posts have been filled by means of a competition. A modification was also proposed to take account of changes in flood risk maps or flood risk maps. And here the most important thing that you need to be given is that this will be an optional action, and so far it has been mandatory. I'm going to conclude by saying that in the article. Article 2 of this amendment provides for the amendment of this Article. 8 Water Law of 30 May 2014 to postpone the obligation for regional water management directors to issue water maintenance plans referred to in Article 1 January 2017. 114b Act It's a water law. I would also like to point out that this law, which was passed by the Sejm at its fifth meeting on 15 December, came from the parliamentary submission. I have here an opinion of the Legislative Bureau. The most important point of the opinion is that the law does not raise any major legislative objections. There are doubts about the date of its entry into force. Mr. Marshal, these are the most important remarks about the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u7	Thank you for a very thorough discussion of the subject. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u8	Professor, I have a question about local zoning plans adopted by local authorities, especially by municipalities that have not done so in the last two years. I would say, on the example of Kędzierzyn-Koźla, and they referred just to the lack of maps issued by the RZGW, the possibility of flooding a given area during the flood. Does what the professor was talking about mean that the relationship between maps issued by the RZGW and the local spatial planning plan is abolished?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u9	Formally, this dependency is not tolerated, but local governments will not have a mandatory obligation to apply it. We leave this to the decision of the local government. It is assumed in the Act that they have the best knowledge of areas in which this flood risk occurs or may occur. [[But after the law entered into force... I understand that only the will of the local government depends on how quickly they will organise spatial planning plans for the areas concerned.]] As far as spatial planning is concerned, there is no decision, but in this law as if an optional obligation had been introduced to comply with these standards. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u10	Thank you very much. Senator Flork's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u11	I'm on the same case. We remember exactly the 2010 flood and what the dangers were. Therefore, the risk and flood risk maps were supposed to be such a great solution that this would not happen in the future. In my opinion, a very good study has been done, although I have heard various comments on this issue when it comes to the implementation of these maps. But the important thing is that these are not just maps so that they can be viewed during floods, but only so that they can be based on them, among others. plan the spatial economy. As far as I remember, in the draft law there was a record about 18 months, that by that time maps would be introduced into the voivodship spatial planning plans, to local spatial planning plans. You say it's not mandatory, which means it's optional. In this situation, as I understand it, we have made very important maps that have straightened out a lot, but this will not be translated into municipalities. I'm aware of that, it's very different in municipalities when it comes to planning spatial planning, covering... I understand that this is probably the result of these changes in spatial planning, because it is sometimes costly to change things. But we know that in the Polish People's Republic we had such a situation when it did not apply weight and was built in flood areas. Right now, we're gonna have to get out of this. It is a pity that risk maps and flood risks are not somehow mandatory. The point is that they may be introduced in other ways into spatial planning plans, otherwise we will not have the effect that we have planned, and we have spent a lot of EU money on this, in my opinion. That's why my question is, is it really... I've heard that these maps will not have a mandatory translation. So I understand that the municipalities will decide for themselves. And what kind of municipalities make resolutions? It can be different. I myself had the opportunity to control the resolutions taken by the municipalities once, and I believe that there is a huge gap here... The municipality's interests will sometimes be above the flood risk business. It is a pity that no conclusions have been drawn and that it has not been tried in some other way to regulate it. That's my point, and that's my question. Is this the state you're talking about... Is this the final issue and we will no longer examine it?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u12	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u13	Perhaps the representatives of the Ministry will say more about it... I believe that it is impossible to assume that there are only unreasonable people in municipalities. I'm convinced that the municipal authorities... They will of course use these maps. The problem arose when these maps were applied to the areas of buildings, because it turned out that most of the land is, so to speak, under the influence of these floodings. This is the result of the inaccuracies of drawing up these maps. It seems to me that the municipalities have the best knowledge of what areas can be affected by flooding or threatened by flooding.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u14	There you go. Ad vocem, I understand. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u15	Yeah, ad vocem. You just used the phrase "inaccuracies" on these maps. I do not know why you say that, because these maps were made with due care, and the fact that these areas were once allowed to build, because there were no spatial planning plans, does not mean that they are not in the zone of danger or flood risk. That's why we've developed these maps so that they can clearly establish that... if there's any doubt, there's some inconsistencies in some place, then, of course, we have to explain it. I'm sure it's 99%. These maps are well drawn up, and if there are such problems, then... I heard it wasn't exactly accurate somewhere in some town, but these are occasional cases. It must be said that these maps were made so that in the future there would be no such threats.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u16	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u17	Nothing forbids local governments to use these maps and they will certainly use them. I'm pretty sure about that. If they use reason.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u18	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Wojtyla a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u19	Mr. Senator, after the article. 123 Following this submission, we add Article. 123a, which refers to a report, for example, a bathing area or a place used to bathe. It's still said that the competent authority locally is... [[...starosta.]] ...starosta. If the bathing area is located in several old places, who is the competent local authority to report it?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u20	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u21	I think the representatives of the ministry will decide. I don't know who would be... [['Cause that could be a problem.]] Well, maybe...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u22	We'll get back to that question when the Minister... You're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u23	I have a question. These are changes that adapt Polish water law to EU directives. Are these changes that are being implemented here completely exhausting the required changes and applying Polish water law to EU directives, or are there any further problems that will cause Polish water law to continue to be incompatible with EU directives? And second question. Is the obligation to make notifications due to the adaptation of Polish water law to EU directives, or for other reasons is this principle of filing notifications proposed here?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u24	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u25	I think the Ministry's representatives will answer this question more precisely. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u26	Senator Pekkis wanted to ask you a question. Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u27	I'm very brief on what you said, senator, that 99%. These maps were made... Well, there wasn't a map in Kędzierzyn-Koźl, and we've been locked up building single-family houses for two years. That map wasn't there. But this change is probably positive, because eventually it will give an opportunity... people will just be able to build themselves up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u28	I'll tell the senator in my experience that I remember the flood in 1997 when the water didn't reach the area where the building of my home department was located. It's in the old-fashioned Klodnica. But there were significant material losses in this building, even though it was not shown on any map. So that water can have negative effects independent of regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u29	Thank you. Senator Blackbay volunteered? [[No.]] No? I'm sorry. Who would like to ask you another question? [[Senator, come in.]] [[Senator Wczyła.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u30	I have one more question. It concerns functional persons who will manage the existing regional water management boards. As far as I can remember, I'm gonna be shutting down IWT offices. [[I think that's...]] Under water law... [[Voice from the room: This does not apply to this bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u31	I don't think I'm competent to answer you. I'm not competent to answer that question. [[Then I take it back.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u32	Do any of you senators want to ask the rapporteur a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: Yes, Mr. Marshal, I will answer...]] The Ministry of Environment represents the Undersecretary of State, Minister Mariusz Gajda.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to answer your doubts in the questions raised here. The first issue is EU law. This law, as if it consumes two issues, i.e. the issue of priority substances and groundwater pollution, but we still have the so-called nitrate directive, which is much more complicated, needs to be agreed primarily with the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. And that's what we'll be doing in the first six months of next year. The same is true of water use charges; this is also the case which will be the subject of work in the first half of the year, except that we have until the end of 2016 and in the case of the Nitrates Directive by September this year. Unfortunately, this is a very complicated matter. The previous bill assumed that Poland as a whole was a source of these nitrates. Especially for small farms, it would be a heavy burden for forests, completely unnecessary. The case of applications is a deregulation. It's not EU law, it's deregulation. The aim is to make it much easier for citizens, entrepreneurs to create water-related facilities, whether they are bridges or swimming pools. In the matter of bathing, the senator asked me who would issue the permit if the bathing area was in the area of several old-fashioned sites. In general, it is customary to decide the old age on which the largest area of this bathing area is situated, and in case of doubt, the applicant can always report to the regional water management board, which will indicate who will... I mean, it's not gonna be a permit anymore, it's gonna be a name for whom that application belongs. Now, the issue that raises the most doubts is the issue of flood risk maps. Ladies and gentlemen, these maps are indeed very valuable material, but unfortunately there have been mistakes in many places. Mistakes which, in the case of compulsory use of these maps by municipalities, by local authorities, could paralyze the development of these local authorities. An example I will give is the city of Gdansk. The postmortem areas on which the museum of Solidarity is located, and where the Museum of World War II is now being established, were marked as flooded areas on these maps. The flood was actually there once, but it was a historical flood, before the excavation of the Vistula in the vicinity of Świdna, and at the moment there is no flood risk. There were just some errors in numerical modelling and we will correct these errors in the next three years. It is so that communities are aware that these maps are actually well made. It is given, among others. Wilkowo's example, where in 2010 there was a flood. That was the area behind the flood bulge. We cannot introduce a kind of mandatory recognition of flood-threatening areas if there is a flood shaft, because there will be a question of why, in that case, build flood-related shafts, since it will still be a flood-threatening area. We must pay attention to the technical state of these shafts. As for functional persons, I must say that this law is actually temporary. There's gonna be competitions. And unfortunately so, ladies and gentlemen, it happened that, for example. In Wrocław, acting director, he served for five years, because Minister Gawłowski gave free leave to Mr Sumisławski so that he could become President of the National Water Management Board. So there wasn't really a principal for five years. Now we're going to announce competitions everywhere, but, as you know, it takes some time for the competition, so in order not to paralyze the functioning of these offices, we need this regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u34	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator. Minister, we invite you here...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u35	It's just a confirmation... [[Voices from the room: Microphone, microphone.]] ...Mr. Marshal, this change that has been introduced in this bill, because... [[Please turn on the microphone.]] I don't think something's working. This change concerns, as I have already said, mainly the inhabitants of mountain lands due to the... As far as these areas are concerned, flood maps did not allow for expansion in valleys of streams, security guards did not allow construction in mountain areas, therefore it seemed that the development of these areas and buildings, mainly residential, would be stopped. And that is why, on behalf of the inhabitants of these areas, I can say boldly: thank you for this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u36	Was that a question? No. [[A statement.]] That was a statement. Do any of you senators have any questions for a government representative? Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u37	Maybe I'll take another chance. Minister, I understand that maps of danger and flood risk will not yet be mandatory. You said that some imperfections could happen in individual municipalities, and that is to be caught and corrected. And I am interested in whether you have such plans that in the future maps of danger and flood risk, which will be passed on to the counties, municipalities, voivodships, marshals, will become mandatory. Will it continue to be possible on the basis of the decisions on the conditions of construction and development, which are issued in the municipality, to carry out a number of investments in flood areas, which will, of course, make it impossible to develop properly in the future? Several examples of such cases in Poland could be given, that the sites on which polders used to be were built, and today it is not possible to use these polders. During the floods in 2010, I had several polders at my disposal, but it turned out that only for one of them it was possible to release water, because all the others were partly built up, developed. In the event of another flood, we must be well prepared and such maps have been carried out. And so I have a question: are we done here, whether we are going to think about using these maps and somehow sealing this system, so that we do not get to what has happened so far, that is, such a wild development of the river basins.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u38	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u39	Thank you very much. Of course, I fully agree with the senator that many mistakes have been made in the past that need to be corrected. Here is a slightly different map input mode planned, not on the basis that here in Warsaw you make maps, you send them out, and that's what it has to be, only this is supposed to be in the arrangement mode with individual local governments. It's true, isn't it? So the maps will be verified. 'Cause that's the kind of change we're proposing to make. The Regional Water Management Boards will agree these maps with individual local governments at municipal, district and voivodeship level. So the point is that there's some interaction between these entities. And only then will it be possible to say that they are mandatory, but then they will be agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u40	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u41	Well, then, I'm gonna need a follow-up. If I apply for a building permit for example a single-family house in a flood risk zone, a flood risk, but there is no plan, it will mean that before making a decision on the construction conditions of a given mound, the mayor will have to consult the RZGW to make sure that this area can be built up, right? No?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u42	It's right here... At the moment, the decision of the Regional Director of Water Management to ban relief from construction in flood-threatening areas is in force, which means that there is no possibility at the moment that if the area is threatened by flooding... It is at the stage of issuing localization decisions, whether in the case of a public objective or in the case of construction and land development, that is the agreement that needs to be obtained. So it's really every decision, every location decision in the vicinity of the river. 'Cause it's known that land somewhere in the mountains, on the peaks, it doesn't concern... The local government is required to agree with the Regional Water Management Board Director, who looks at flood risk maps and issues a decision either does not issue a decision It's a ban on dismissal. And here there is no self-reliantness, and there is no possibility of such a settlement as that in Kozanów in Wrocław, i.e. without agreement with the director of RZGW.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u43	Thank you. Who among the senators wants to ask you another question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Environmental Law and the Act on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. The text of the Act is contained in print No 36 and the Commission's reports In prints No 36 A and No 36 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 16 December 2015, the Environment Commission considered the Law amending the Environmental Law and the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions management system and other substances. These are the prints, as you read, Marshal 36 and 36 A. The bill was included in Parliament's printing no. 103 and was introduced on the initiative of the parliament. The most important amendment introduced during the committee's work was to extend the scope of this amendment by introducing amendments to the article. 60a Law of 17 July 2009 on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. Consequently, the title of the law has been changed. No amendments were tabled at the second reading stage, and the Sejm immediately started the third reading and adopted the law. The Senate Marshal referred the bill to the Senate of the Republic of Poland for consideration. It was adopted without amendments 6 senators voted in favour of the bill, 2 abstentions, no one opposed it. Dear High Izbo, Poland, when joining the European Union, committed itself to fulfilling inter alia. requirements for sewage systems, municipal waste water treatment plants resulting from Council Directive 91/271/EEC, in accordance with the provisions of the Accession Treaty. The transitional period for the implementation of this waste water directive is 31 December 2015 and therefore penalties for failure to comply with the requirements of the waste water directive would have to be imposed from 1 January 2016. I will merely remind you that the estimated cost when Poland joined the European Union could be said to be PLN 30 billion at the time of the Treaty of Accession. 60 billion PLN has already been spent on the construction of this sewage system and sewage treatment plant, and it is planned to spend about 30 billion PLN so that such a system can be built in accordance with the Council Directive, as I said, which was adopted in the Accession Treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, the legal basis for the calculation of environmental penalties by the operator of the municipal waste water treatment plant is Article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1a of the Environmental Law. It must be borne in mind that according to the article. 292 environmental law in the absence of the required authorisation, the environmental operator shall pay fees up to 500% for the introduction of waste water into water or to land. And the completion dates for the water and sewage economy implemented by the municipalities are delayed for various reasons, financial, random and organisational. According to the investment plans submitted by the agglomerations, after 31 December 2015, 91 new waste water treatment plants and other investments are planned, e.g. reconstruction of the sedimentary part and modernization of waste water treatment plants up to 651 treatment plants. In particular, for small municipalities, the task of achieving an environmental effect, despite EU funding, is a task that exceeds their financial capacity. In such a situation, the imposition of additional high charges may significantly impede the implementation of planned or initiated investments. The committee therefore proposes to introduce legislative changes extending the period of delay in the collection of increased environmental charges for the water and sewage economy. Revision of the article. Point (a) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 1a of the Environmental Law refers to the change of the deadline for deferring the payment of an increased fee for the use of the environment or an administrative penalty, provided that the project to be implemented ensures the removal of the reasons for the increased fees or penalties is included in the update of the national municipal waste water treatment programme and will be implemented by 31 December 2018. The amendment to the Environmental Law will enable the municipalities to complete their investments and will not result in additional burdens on those entities which carry out the project, and these are municipalities or municipal establishments that deal with the water and sewage economy on behalf of the municipalities. Amendment of Article 60a of 17 July 2009 on a system for managing greenhouse gas emissions and other substances will postpone the date of entry into force of the provisions implementing the Law of 27 April 2001 on the protection of the environment by a further 2 years, new regulations on how to determine and levy charges for the introduction of gases or dust into the air. The system is intended for this purpose, but so far this system does not work properly. The system for recording fees should be uniform and used by the Marshal's offices combined with the national greenhouse gas and other emission information base. The idea is that the system should apply equally to all operators and ensure good standard and consistency, so that all operators obliged to pay these fees are treated equally. Equal treatment is, after all, a fundamental distinction between the rule of law. It is therefore proposed to change the time limits set out in Article in view of these problems and obstacles. 60a of this law and the extension of the entry into force of the amendments and statutory regulations in this respect at 1 January 2019, i.e. 3 years. The date of entry into force of this Law was set at 30 December 2015. As I said before, the Committee on the Environment is asking for this law to be adopted without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u45	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! After a rather broad discussion of this matter by the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, my discussion of the work, the procedure at the committee meeting will be shorter, because I will not repeat what my previous speaker said. The essence of the request for amendment of the law is contained in two parts, in the amendment of the article. 317 Environmental law and art. 60a Act on the greenhouse gas emission management system and other substances. It's about deadlines, about time shifts due to the fact that my previous speaker signalled here. The waste water investment resulting from the implementation of the European Union Directive has not been completed for various reasons, financial but also organisational. Therefore, in accordance with the current legal system, pursuant to Article. 317 entities, municipalities would be obliged to pay fees up to 500%. Therefore, the request for an extension of the deadline for not paying those fees until 31 December 2018. For these investments, which are to be completed, there is still a need for about 28 billion zlotys, and so far investments in the sewage network, as the previous speaker said, amounted to about 60 billion zlotys. The second part is the extension of the period of validity of Article. 60a Act on the greenhouse gas emission management system. As regards the work at the committee meeting, the Legislative Office did not submit any comments to the Act except for the comment on the date of entry into force, vacathio legis. There were no other comments. At the committee meeting, 7 senators voted in favour and the draft was adopted unanimously. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration requests the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u47	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u48	Maybe Senator Pupa. Mr. Chairman, I have a question for you. In so far as justifications for the deferral of these charges can be accepted, such drastic charges for infringements of environmental legislation in the field of water management as it is conditioned by the fact that the municipality or the entity is carrying out investments for environmental protection in accordance with the programme And it is clear that someone is in the process of implementing the investment and is therefore difficult to punish for the fact that he hasn't finished it yet. The matter of art is different. 60a, where greenhouse gas and dust emissions into the air are mentioned. There's no condition. So to say that this is equal treatment... That's not equal treatment. This is adjourned without a condition. At least that's how I read those recipes. It is all the more worrying that the opinion of the Parliamentary Legislative Office on compliance with European Union rules concerns the primary provisions, where the amendments to Article. 60a was not, and no one was referring to them. And my question is this: did you consider whether this provision is in line with the European Union's rules at the committee meeting? I'm asking because he wasn't judged in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u49	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u50	We also talked about art. 60a. The problem is that there are signals that this charging system does not work, you can say, consistently, does not work properly, is defective, and therefore needs to be improved in some way. And that was the main argument for this type of entry. I think that this is a justification that will allow us to meet the expectations of those who bring these charges. It's about how this system works and how it doesn't get into any kind of trouble.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u51	You're welcome, Senator. Let me remind you that we are at a questioning stage that lasts no longer than one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u52	Just a quick question. Because this seym roll reminds me of some of the treatments that have already taken place by a strong lobby... During the committee meeting, was there a question about the presence of lobbyists? Were they currently in session?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u53	There were no lobbyists. I didn't see the lobbyists at the Environment Committee meeting. There were people connected... representatives of the Sejm, applicants, former representatives of the Ministry, there were people who, you might say, somehow provided information on the work on the law itself, but the lobbyists were not noticed. There's a attendance list so you can check it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u54	Thank you very much. Who of you wants to ask the rapporteurs another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? The Ministry of Environment represents Minister Mariusz Gajda. Do you wish to speak on this matter? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Environment Mariusz Gajda: If there is any doubt, I will gladly explain it.]] I see, no. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Augustine, this is Senator Augustine. You're welcome. Come on in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u55	Mr. Minister, three questions. The first, of course, is the following: what is the government's attitude not only to this law, but also, and even more particularly, to the amendment made during the sitting of the Sejm Committee on Art. 60a, which in total goes beyond all the seym and senate reasons we have. What's the ratio of the department on this? Secondly, is this amendment in line with the law of the European Union and Poland's obligations, including the latest ones, concerning the reduction of greenhouse gas and dust emissions in the air, which, as we know, is Poland's huge problem, especially in some cities? And thirdly, isn't it like that? You're gonna have to settle my doubts. That... Because in my opinion it has happened that, at the seymical stage, changes in gas emissions were introduced on the verge of lobbying or even lobbying. And that's why I'd really like to ask you to respond to that. It is amazing that such an extremely important issue concerning a huge group of entrepreneurs has been overlooked in the original project and introduced as an amendment to the Sejm. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u56	Mr. Senator, let me remind you that we are in the process of asking questions for no more than a minute. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, in answering these questions from the senator, I would like to say that this amendment is supported by the government. I'll tell you why. This amendment is not really about emissions, it is about how we charge for these emissions. I'll tell you why. At the moment, the charging system is functioning. This is a system that, in an institution called KOBIZE, is a national emission balancing centre... I don't remember that name exactly, because I don't deal directly with it. It's working pretty well right now, maybe not very well. In 2010, the previous government examined the law on the creation of a new system. This new system was to be created within five years, but unfortunately it was not created. We're crashing again on some computer issues... Turns out he didn't make it. And now, if we hadn't moved that deadline, and this new system that was supposed to come in, it wouldn't have been charging at all for the next few years, it wouldn't have happened at all. This amendment is as if we are saving the charging system. He's not perfect, but he's real. If not for this amendment, those large companies that have the most different emissions would not bear any fees. It's hard to talk about lobbying here; lobbying wasn't there. If this amendment had not been tabled, these large companies would not have had to bear any emission charges. And that's why it's so necessary, so urgent. She was left by a group of Members at the last minute, you might say, caught. It's about saving the bill of sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u58	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u59	That's the question and the explanation... Unfortunately, this project was not on the economic committee. In translating from the task of this question, I will refer to the report, the words of the rapporteur, who said that it is about equalisation and really about deferring the possibility of higher charges. And the Minister says we're saving the toll system. Then explain what's going on. Is it about not having these higher fees, or is it about making them?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u60	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u61	Senator, the increased charges are about sewage, not emissions. So that's two different things. [[I see.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u62	Thank you very much. Who of the senators wants to ask the government representative another question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. [[Mr. Marshal...]] It's for discussion. Yes? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. Please take the floor of Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm short and right next to it. Indeed, it is worth looking at the provisions on greenhouse gas and dust emissions. It is a nightmare of most agglomerations, a very difficult subject that requires costly investments, which we all understand and we know is a task to do. I came out here because I'm from a region where we've had other issues unsolved for years. And since there's a change of government, there's a change in ministries, I take the opportunity to remind you that most of the complaints that come to the Ministry of Environment are complaints about scent abuse. This issue partly regulated by European Union legislation is still not regulated in Poland. In many places next to the farm, next to various industrial plants, especially rendering plants, one cannot live normally. I recommend the attention of the Ministry and the high committees on this issue. We're at the beginning of a new episode... it's worth putting him away with some sort of result on this. Perhaps, Mr President, Members of the competent Commission, this could be a Senate initiative, and then I declare that I will be willing to join in such work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u64	Thank you very much. No one else came forward for discussion. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I declare adjournment until 4:30 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 12 to 16 minutes 31]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. High Senate, I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining and consider it as point four; the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles and consider it as point five. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. I can't hear you. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Western Institute Act. Zygmunt Wojciechowski. The text of the Act is contained in print 43 and the Commission's reports In prints No 43 A and 43 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Jarosław Oremski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The aim of the Act is to establish a state organizational unit called the Western Institute. Zygmunt Wojciechowski, based in Warsaw in a place currently operating... [[Voice from the hall: In Poznań.]] What did I say? [[Voices from the hall: Warsaw.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[We protest!]] I'm very sorry. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Director...]] Based in Poznań in place of the currently functioning Western Institute. The legislative amendment is mainly due to the fact that the legislator The profile of this unit is in conflict with the mechanism envisaged by the Law on Research Institutes. If we want the institute to be primarily an analytical and expert institution, the formula of the research institute is in contradiction with this and also has poor financial consequences. In addition, by analogy to other similar expert centres, such as the Polish Institute of International Affairs and the Eastern Studies Centre, we should propose to the Western Institute a similar organizational way of functioning. Legally, the Institute will function as a state organizational unit equipped with legal personality, supervision of the Institute will be exercised by the President of the Council of Ministers, and the activities resulting from supervision on his behalf will be carried out by the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. The Centre's specific tasks will be to collect, develop and make available to the public authorities information on relevant political and social events and processes in the field of its activities, to prepare analyses, expertise, to organise and conduct scientific research and to carry out publishing activities. The bodies of the Institute will be the Director of the Institute and the Council of the Institute. The Director of the Institute shall appoint a five-year term of office ..and cancels.. President of the Council of Ministers. In the discussion at the committee meeting we stressed that Poland needs certain centres, think tanks, which will develop some strategies and expertise, that the experience and quality of functioning of the Eastern Studies Centre im. Karpia brand is a good example of the need for such institutions in Poland. It'll be assured. This is the declaration. The funding of PLN 3.5 million in the following year. In the following years it will be about PLN 4.5 million. It must be said that the funding of these two institutions, which I mentioned earlier, namely PISM and the Centre for Eastern Studies, is at the level of 8 million, which may mean that as the position and range of expertise are strengthened, this money will have to be greater. In the Seym, amendments to the project were tabled; they were tabled by the Modern. The idea was that it should not be just a non-Municipal centre, but such an investigation into relations, the situation in all the countries of the European Union. And the PiS, and the Platform clearly said that the purpose of this law is to preserve a certain heritage of the institute, which has functioned for 70 years and which, however, focused on German issues, and that this is the intention of the legislator, the parliament. You could say it's a bill that's a continuation... First of all, we have 70 years of tradition. Secondly, even during the transitional period, the director of the institute, the board of the institute will be, until the new authorities are elected, the authorities of the institution, which at the same time we are eliminating by this law... It is also a continuation of a political thought which appeared in the previous Parliament at least twice. I remember that at the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the occasion of the budget there was a belief that the Western Institute had to be recast. So here we are dealing with a continuation. The Commission unanimously voted on this bill, and in the Sejm the discussion ended in such a way that when the marshal said no, I could not hear it, Mr Rafał Grupiński from the Parliamentary benches replied, "It is difficult to oppose." I'm saying it because it happens in the Seym anyway. All the more reason for the bill to be adopted with more power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Robert Gawl, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, a study committee was sitting on this subject. I would like to make it clear that the Commission's position on the bill is clear: the 8 senators present at the committee's meeting voted in favour of this law. This is a significant act, because it de facto saves the functioning of the Western Institute in Poznań, an institution, which was already mentioned here just now, about a 70-year tradition which acted under different political circumstances. There was a time when she had to fight various forgeries, which were written especially by Germans. The scientific achievements of this facility are very, very large. It was led by many outstanding scientists in her history, such as Professor Zygmunt Wojciechowski or a great medieval scientist, Professor Gerard Labuda. I would like to stress that since 2013, the formula for the functioning of this institute has ceased to be under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has become a gesture of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. And actually these last few years have shown that if it continues to work like this, the institute will actually stop working. A scientific institution should be rescued and transformed from a strict institution research in an institution to deal with the analysis and conceptual formulation of scientific conclusions. Above all, it is about building a think tank that would help government institutions carry out their policy tasks towards Germany. Let me just remind you that the German state has a few institutions and places money on them. According to the activities of the Western Institute, the Polish state supports the functioning of institutions that deal with research on Eastern Europe. These two institutes are functioning today. What's more? I think this bill is necessary. This lapsus of the rapporteur is also significant, because in fact, what other city with such a tradition, in terms of studies concerning Germany, like not Poznań, would be the seat of this institution? Therefore, with full awareness, we propose that we support this bill in the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u68	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? The Ministry of Science and Higher Education is represented by Minister Aleksander Bobko. Welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: I am sitting here, in my place.]] I'm sorry. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education Alexander Bobko: Thank you. In fact, it's all been said. If there are any questions, then...]] Welcome to the Institute's Director, Mr. Michał Nowosielski. Do you wish to speak? [[Director of the Western Institute Zygmunt Wojciechowski Michał Nowosielski: I think there is no need.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it took longer to let me on the stand than my speech would last. I would like to say that, indeed, the Western Institute in Poznań is an institution with very great achievements, as the rapporteurs said. I just want to stress it. This is the first thing. The second thing is this. I am probably rarely praised by the web page that is the initiator of this project, but yes, the initiators should be praised in this regard. Director Nowosielski has been asking for this for a long time. The concepts were different. I would like to submit to a group of Members who are the initiators of this bill, simply expressions of appreciation. And the third thing is: one must be aware that, of course, as one of the senators of the rapporteurs here said, the role of the Western Institute was very often to discuss, to argue with unfavorable voices in Germany. But in recent years its role has also been to promote good Polish-German relations, Polish-German reconciliation and, I will say more broadly, European integration. This has been the case in the last dozen or even dozens of years. And it would be good to follow these good financial solutions... In order to achieve not only 70 years of functioning of the Western Institute, but also these last years I mean to promote good European integration and good Polish-German relations. And this to yourself and to the authorities of the institute. The present authorities, and what they will be in the future, will probably show the time and those who will have power in this matter. I wish that this work will be preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u71	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm sure your director of the institute, Mr. Novosielski, has fallen a stone from his heart because... in my time I worked very closely with the Western Institute and I know what financial problems he was facing. This institution deserves to be so expressed, the look that took place in the Seym, and, I hope, in a moment it will take place with us in the Senate. The Western Institute also entered into the history of Lubuskie land, where I had the pleasure and opportunity to participate in international seminars, participate in away seminars in the Collegium Polonicum, at the Polish-German border. That's where the ideas were crawling. These seminars were attended by the professor of the European University Viadrina and there were discussions on the model of cooperation between the Republic of Poland and the whole European Union. I am also connected with the Institute emotionally, because as an entrepreneur I had the opportunity and pleasure to build its headquarters, which was created in Poznań several years ago, with Polish-German funds. And I would like to say that the Western Institute has carried out a model cooperation with such a two-country institution: with the Polish-German foundation. This cooperation brought great fruit. I would like to quote our former Prime Minister, Professor Buzek, who was at the opening of this new headquarters and said that the Western Institute is such a pearl in our country and in the world. I would like to say that, as a member of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, I am going to vote in favour and I am very pleased that... the creators who helped the institute just deserve a round of applause. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u72	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to take the floor in the discussion? No. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. The text of the Act is contained in print No 50 and the report of the Commission In print No 50A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Gawada, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I took part in the presentation of a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 22 December this year on the amendment of the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining. At today's meeting of the joint committees, the two committees recommended the adoption of a law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining without amendments. During the discussions at the joint committee meeting, the issue of the coal debt was addressed, and in fact the monetary equivalent and the question of whom it would be concerned. The Minister informed that this would apply to all the heirs of the companies that were transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mine. The subject of one-off payments has also been addressed. These issues have been clarified. Who are they gonna cover? Mostly administrative staff, as well as employees of coal processing plants. Questions were also raised during the discussion on a forward-looking strategic plan for hard coal mining. From the answer given by Minister Tobiszowski, we can conclude that such a plan will be presented, if I may bring this matter closer, at the turn of February and March. I think the Minister confirms it. It was also suggested and proposed that, in view of the validity of this law, it should be adopted without amendment. Therefore, on behalf of the joint committees, I recommend that the High House, the High Senate, adopt this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u74	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u75	I would just like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the senators for considering this law and adopting it in such a way, because it is really important that it be adopted by the end of the year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Is anybody... [[Senator Augustine.]] You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u77	Minister, in the committee, we talked about the need to adopt this law, but I think the High House would like to take a look at your current assessment of the mining situation. If you were a minister. And this is my request and the question at the same time He wanted to highlight it even briefly, we would know better what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u78	The Ministry represents Minister Tobiszowski. Welcome to the podium. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Before I answer the senator's question, I'd like to use... Because this is also the case for the law, so it is part of this part concerning what is already in the Ministry of Energy's diagnosis on the hard coal sector. What decisions we have made and what our intentions are, and what the rapporteur, Mr Adam Gawewada, has already mentioned, were so suggested at the committee meeting that maybe in February, in March we will be ready to talk to the social side, to present a more detailed plan for the mining strategy in Poland. But before I get to it, I would like to say that one of the actions that we have already taken And here we want to use, among others. the instrument provided for in this Act is to transfer those parts of mines which have an impact on the operation of the mine and do not have a direct impact on coal extraction... These are different objects, windows. Among other things, thanks to the adoption of this law, we will have a tool by 2018 that will allow us to transfer this property, which I am about to talk about. The situation in each mine is currently being analysed separately. And the Coal Company, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, and Katowice Holding Węglowy. We're looking at data on every mine, every wall, every wall. We're looking at how much access we have to the deposit, how much more we have to the WUG's decision as to the possibilities of extraction, what is the cost of coal extraction from a given wall, what is the sort of carbon, what is hydrogenation, CO2, all the parameters. We are investigating who is the recipient of this coal, what are the problems of selling coal in the Polish energy sector, the internal market, heat and power plants, individual customers. As far as exports are concerned, today we have the most data in the case of the Coal Company. The situation in Jastrzębska is the hardest to evaluate, we hope to receive data in January, although the board says it will be difficult, so it will probably be early in February. From these earlier analyses of the situation in individual mines, we already have information about what is actually unnecessary in the mine, i.e. e.g. The deposit of the Bytom II, Rozbark 5 and Ryszard II will pass thanks to this bill from the recommendation of Węglokox Country, the company which today manages the Mine of.Bobrek and the Mine of ZG Bakery... After that, the Redout-Anna, two mines combined into one management structure, one of which, Anna, had already run out and all the property at all costs, as well as the people involved in the mining parts, moved to the Company for the Restructuring of Mines. The same is true of the mine, Poniatowski, i.e. Mine of Supper in Katowice Holding, and the district of Pawłów Górny, i.e. KWK mining plant Bielszowice in the Coal Company. These are the real estate and property, and the individual parts of the mines, which, thanks to the adoption of the law by the Sejm and the Senate, will be able to move at the beginning of the year, thus reducing the costs of operation of individual mines. And, of course, what is already in the Company of Restructuring of Mine, and has been passed on by the previous government, thus the Mock mine. Thanks to the extension of the term of operation of this law until 2018... Why until 2018? Because this perspective has been outlined following the arrangements with the European Commission. We want to make maximum use of the opportunities offered by SRK, a tool for restructuring in mining, and therefore also extend the financing period of the active mine KWK What actions have already been taken and what have we had to do . and we still have to You're gonna face it? As you know, the situation in Polish mining is unprecedented. We probably haven't dealt with a situation as difficult as the one that's happened today. The surroundings are certainly not friendly. I mean the surroundings related to the procedures. In line with the decision taken by the Council of Europe in 2010, we cannot restructure mining in Poland, but we must eliminate mines. And that has caused, ladies and gentlemen, since this year in the event of any problems They occurred at the deconuncture. We do not have the right tools and this is a certain disability in terms of restructuring. So that's the first circumstance. Second circumstance. We see that prices at ARA, and not only, are not friendly. I think they've reached it by now. Let's hope so. In fact, the hole, but one must also be aware that for the next 3, 4 years we still need to construct a vision of the reform of Polish mining. And there will be no significant reflection. There may be fluctuations at low prices, but there will be no significant increases for 4, 5 years. Let's hope that after 5 years the economy will actually improve, but this is a long time and we need to adapt to it when it comes to the effectiveness of Polish mining. What does efficiency mean? It is about reducing the cost of coal extraction, improving the organisation of work in each mine. And this improvement in the organisation of work consists in using the personnel involved, as well as investing in individual walls, or processing in mines, in order to achieve a greater effect on the preparation and extraction of each coal mine. We have very low, Dear Senators, the efficiency of the use of the equipment that is in our mines. There's a lot of spare parts for combine harvesters compared to combine harvesters in other countries. This is a great challenge for us, because the question is: why is it so? Is the equipment actually wrongly installed? Is maintenance really bad? These are the questions we'll be looking for answers to. Today we know that this is happening. We also want, ladies and gentlemen, through appropriate investments, to reach for coal and extract coal that is sold, coal for which there is demand not to involve investment forces in these parts of our mines, in those mining parties, where unfortunately we have a problem with coal disposal. We will improve the situation in this area by investing in conversions so that we can achieve some investment synergies in individual mines. So this analysis, which is already done in large part in the Coal Company, and in Jastrzębska Coal Company is to be done in January, February I think that in January we will also be able to impose information from Katowice Coal Holding on this analysis, which will make these investment plans a hit. The government assumes, among other things. When it comes to the Hawk Coal Company... Because this is where we are, ladies and gentlemen, in an extremely difficult situation. Believe me, I thought I had enough knowledge of the situation in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, the Coal Company, Katowice Holding Węglowy. However, the data that we received at the moment when we took over the Ministry, concerning Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, really caused us to realize that we are in a very crisis situation. It was necessary to build a business plan that was submitted to financial institutions so that the company would not be bankrupt. For the first weeks, we've built a plan. This plan was accepted by financial institutions. In January, in February, we will continue with the follow-up to the decisions taken. These decisions will also be submitted to the social side for consultation, because we need to build public consent around this plan. Thus, in January the Management Board of Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, with an investment plan, built capital facilities, will start talks with the social side. The assumptions we have as a government, the Ministry of Energy, are that... We communicated this during our visit to Silesia, Katowice, the Coal Company after talking to the board of directors, whose meeting had a working character and concerned the analysis of each mine. There was a presentation of each wall, then what the issue of trade looks like, what are the problems of selling coal in which markets the company sells its coal, what are the risks, and at what stage is the construction of this construction, which we have approved as the Ministry of Energy in connection with the new company, which I will also talk about immediately. But I'm going back to talking to the social side. In Katowice we met with representatives of the social side and we have the following assumptions: we submit an investment plan, we submit a recovery plan for a given company, we propose a social side assessment of this and, if it wants access to the data on which we build the structure, we invite you to look at the documents, and as these will be classified documents, the social side is to delegate 2, 3 people who will be covered by this clause and will be able to inspect them. We want to show transparently what position we start from and why we shape and propose appropriate solutions, because circumstances are not random here. In January we start the Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa case with regard to this discussion... As for Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, I would like to say that the government has also decided that the assets that are related to Jastrzębska Spółka, or coking plants, Friendship, coking plants, Victoria, will not be sold to private investors, they will remain the assets that are to work on raising capital. After the first presentation of the social side, we will want to present these investment assumptions for the Jastrzębska Company to parliamentarians, state senators, as well as public opinion. Gentlemen, regarding the new Coal Company, we have decided that the reform in the Coal Company will be constructed by the creation of a new Coal Company with 11 mines. Taking advantage of this opportunity, the fact that the senator raised this subject, I want to stress that this information should go to the public, because in various journalistic statements often appears, I don't know why, such a statement that there will be 7 mines, 6 or 5, there are different information... 11 mines will be included in the new Coal Company, I'm sure it will be, because it's already decided. As far as shareholders' equity is concerned, I'm sure we're gone. It is already decided that the company of Silesia, which was to be the entity to reform the Coal Company, will not be the entity, maybe enter here as a small shareholder, but we will settle this. So that we will certainly not reform the hard coal sector in the Coal Company by the company of Silesia. We are talking about the energy sector, which will be considered when it comes to powering the shares of the new Company. That structure that ran over there somewhere in the previous government is being worked out by us. The issue of other shareholders that we will be able to really talk about, I think, around March, next February, is also being worked out, because the new Company is due to be created by June next year, and we would very much like to see it be the first quarter, because it will set us straight and launch the investment process in those mines that will create the new Company. As for Katowice Coal Holding, as I'm sure senator and senator, you know, we have a letter of intent from one of the energy sector. The situation was so new that this entity took over, bought Bogdanka, became the owner of the mine Bogdanka. Now an analysis of the financial condition of this entity is underway and until it is analysed how much it is able to engage in coal holding... It'll be, I think, January, February... Then we'll decide what happens next with Katowice Coal Holding. As a summary, I would like to say that right after the barbork celebrations, after the Ministry of Energy was established and after preparing the principles of this law, which you already have in the form adopted by the Sejm today, I had the opportunity to take part in a delegation to Brussels to present the founding of the new Company. We were there with representatives of the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Treasury, with representatives of the Coal Company; there was a presentation of the assumptions of the new Company. Preliminarily, it's okay. As I say: preliminarily Only in January are we supposed to say that we are consistent and implement these assumptions. As you know, the previous government has not been able to obtain consent for notification and consent to the appointment of this entity, but we have made quite significant corrections in relation to the shareholder, and this makes it possible for us to be effective, and we have received preliminary consent for the adoption and adoption of this bill in the Polish Parliament, this submission which you are considering today. That's why we should actually... But the deadline is following us, on 31 December is the final date for the adoption of this law, so after we accepted it, after the presentation in Brussels, we submitted it in Parliament. So that from here such an urgent mode. It seems that reality requires such action, so thank you for your understanding and thank you for having given me the opportunity to present to the senators these preliminary assumptions, which the Ministry of Energy has today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u80	Thank you very much. Senator Ryszka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, your speech was very optimistic, but for eight years we have listened to very similar speeches, speeches coming from Minister Kowalczyk or Prime Minister Kopacz. You've already answered a few questions, but I'd like to ask you a few more questions. I understand that there is no elimination of mines, only the transfer to the SRK of those units, those movements that have ended operation. Therefore, I have a question: are there still coal deposits in these units, and what will happen to them? Is there going to be a private investor there? So are we gonna say, like, some foreign company, Germany or other countries, give back our deposits, and then they're gonna make a huge profit? The second issue is the question of the amounts paid to miners who... I don't really get it. This is about parole, isn't it? Exactly. I'd like the Minister to explain. And the third thing, maybe, I'll say, wider: what's next with the Russian coal imports? They've tried to block it so many times... Does your government, our government, have a solution to this? And most importantly, my question. We want to introduce a ban on the privatisation and sale of forests into the Constitution. Wouldn't it be the same as coal as a national treasure as the most important element of our energy security, something that will bring great benefits in the future, because we're already talking about new technologies, carbon gasification, etc... Each tonne of coal is just going to be a huge amount of money. And we already know that there are advanced technologies. Shouldn't the Constitution also prohibit the sale of coal as a national treasure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u82	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Gentlemen of the Senators! In answer to the senator, I'm going to say that when it comes to these facilities and any assumptions regarding the transfer of assets to the SRK, it's a property that doesn't have a deposit that would be mined. We have a situation related to KWK, which we found... Indeed, it turns out that as far as KWK is concerned, it is where coal mining takes place. It turns out that it is becoming more and more effective, although we continue to add to current losses. The program that's in the SRK, as you'll see. I'll get right to the other thing, the payouts... This isn't about parole. It would be a situation where we terminate someone's contract and the next day or next month, he's out of work in three months. The other situation is when you hand over your paycheck... If you read in the bill, there are incentives, such that if someone decides to leave the occupied job, they will get some gratification, they will get a bonus. So that's what they're called. voluntary decisions to leave the workplace, so that there is in no way any exemption. As for the transferred objects, as I mentioned at the beginning, our intention is to relieve the mining costs when it comes to property costs that have no impact on coal extraction. So there are no transfers of parts of mining plants that have active deposits, deposits that can still be sold. That's out of the question. The assumption is this. I've read it. That's what they are. And just as Anna is already a closed part of the mine, just as Poniatowski's shaft has no effect on coal mining in KWK So these are the parts of the mine that are on the estate that generate the cost. Besides, these parts of the mine, ladies and gentlemen, are assigned jobs. That's the truth. And if we move them to the SRK right now, then the SRK will have a tool to offer them... This is an unnecessary asset which is not relevant in the case of coal mining in a given mine and the persons who secure the operation of the shaft secure this part of the property. If these people decide that this briefing, which is planned, is included in the bill... They will leave, and naturally we will reduce costs and personnel, and related to the assets of individual parts of the mine, as far as the administration is concerned, those people in the conversion. Therefore, I strongly stress: please, this is not a question of mine decommissioning, because then we would not be analysing which parts have no impact on coal extraction. But that's why we analyze each mine separately, every deposit, every part, so that it can be made from every mine as effectively as possible, if possible, an entity that would operate on the market. We are taking this type of action and therefore investment will be needed. However, it cannot be that we will only use one instrument, because then we will not achieve the result. Investments, property processes, management, organization of work, management, hit investments... Ladies and gentlemen, only the synergy of this can give us a certain effect is the essence of the undertaking. And I hope, Mr. Senator, that this is not what Prime Minister Kopacz was talking about. As far as imports of coal are concerned, this is indeed a problem, a very important problem. This is a very important problem, which is not only about Russian coal, but it needs to be addressed. 'Cause what happened, ladies and gentlemen? Well, I want to tell you that when Russian coal entered the Polish market, it suddenly stopped mining this sort of coal in Polish mines. Today the Polish government is in such a situation that if we succeeded administratively... It's not easy, but let's just say we're gonna do different things. Anyway, it would turn out that we're blocking Russian coal and we don't have one. So first we need to launch investments in Polish mines so that we can enter the market. Let's see. I'd like to tell you that, too. It is a large part of the retail market. We have been diagnosed, so we want to launch some investments as soon as possible, not only on conversions, but also on certain carbon deposits. As I said before, we're talking about a specific sort of coal for which it's too. The point is that we can enter, be competitive, and replace this product that enters the market, among other things, from Russia, and especially... He doesn't go into the sector, he goes into energy, he goes into detail. It seems to us that in some places it is also used in heat and power plants. There is also a challenge, ladies and gentlemen, to invest in heat and power plants. We're gonna have to face that, too. Why? It is because some heat plants have switched to gas and have not achieved a cost-effective effect. So we also have a challenge when it comes to investing in heat and power plants. The new topic that you mentioned a little bit about the senator is the matter of gassing coal. This is a challenge for this term of office. But let's agree: we have a lot of information that we already have a product in one version or another, while the key is so that we can create it in an industrial version to gas this coal and so that it can support Polish chemistry among others. This would be a very big support not only for Polish coal, but for the Polish chemical industry. This is one of the challenges facing this government and we will certainly take action in this area. I'm sure we're gonna want to get these issues straightened out by the beginning of next year... I want to tell you, without feeling sorry for you, but just so you can understand that reality is pushing us. We're chasing her, we're starting to take her, we're starting to create her, but unfortunately, she's been creating us all these weeks. First it was the time of the Ministry, then it was necessary to catch the Jastrzębska Company, the new Company and prepare for talks with the social side. So the order will be in January. I hope that there will also be first talks with institutes that are subject to the Ministry of Energy and balancing what we have, possibly building certain financial structures and tasks for the Institute. The point is to put the Institutes on the job, they have a year. Two for a specific product, and then we can evaluate research into a specific project. We would very much like to build a coal gas system. And I guess That's my assessment. We'll go gassing the coal on the surface. There's also often talk of gassing in coal deposits, but my private assessment is rather that it will happen in the perspective of generations, and what we can do and I think we're close here... Well, in the perspective of 2, 3, maybe 4 years, so, let's say, at the end of this term, we could have installed in some particular mine. Because we need to be aware that not every carbon is so willing to give in to gasification technology. But it would be great, ladies and gentlemen, if we could adapt the mines to gas and combine it with Polish chemistry. It would be a great event. This is certainly one of the challenges that Prime Minister Beata Szydło will face.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u84	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u85	Minister, just a few more questions. Namely, you were talking about extracting a coal product that is needed on the market, only that the mine is extracting it and the intermediaries are making a fortune on it. Is there an idea in the Ministry for some institution called.Polish Coal or something? It's about making mines, not brokers. That's one question. The second question concerns the merger of a mining plant with an energy company. Is it that the mining plant, the mine is going to give up for Tauron's gold? Because it's like we're enriching the power plant with huge assets, and it's either a stock company or already mixed capital, and so on. So it's such a dubious matter as to how to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As for this gold, thank you for this question, because this is probably the most expensive gold in the Republic of Poland. You must be aware that KWK... I didn't replace the mine, because, as you know, The decision was made that Tauron's energy company would take over this proverbial gold mine, Brzeszcze, as an asset with SRK, but we need to know that the mine has passed, you can say, purgatory in SRK, and therefore the payment of a huge number of checks has been made, the mining works have been co-financed. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I'm wrong. It's a message from yesterday's meeting. We are talking about 140 million, which Tauron must pay as public aid, which has been designated in the SRK to make the mine more effective than when it fell into the SRK. Believe me, Tauron's board is not happy and happy about it, and we're still calculating the relevant interest on this transaction. This is a mid-term project, please, because let's note that it would be easier for Tauron to buy the Brest directly. I think then it would be a purely business transaction, and we wouldn't have that left hand grabbing the right ear, or SRK. In addition, during the talks in Brussels, we had to have such a very strange conversation, because notice that the previous government had not received public aid consent at all, by transferring and financing the Makoshowy and the Brzeszcze. Now we're pulling out of the SRK all of a sudden. The Tauron will now incur quite a lot of public aid refunds, which is a government of over 100 million, unless it's 140 million, so there's no way we're giving up anything for a dollar. So, as I say, this is the most expensive gold in the economy. As far as coal trade is concerned, this must be done, but first we need to put the capital side of the new Coal Company in order, and we also need to put our internal market in order so that we can secure the internal market for coal supply. 'Cause you'll notice that we've gotten away with this. We, building energy and mining structures, also try to build market structures, so that first and foremost Polish coal demand is on the Polish market, and then there is an attempt to conquer external markets, but this is a secondary element. Polish coal should function primarily on the Polish market and we will certainly be thinking about some elements of support for this project. It is a matter of what is next in terms of the scope of functioning of Węglokoks, because Węglokoks is the entity that is well located outside Poland. It's a certain value, it's a certain potential. But there will be a new situation, there will be a new Company, Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, will be a coal holding company. The question is whether the Company's sales race with the Katowice Coal Holding... The point is to sort it out somehow. But first, ladies and gentlemen, we need to catch up with the organizational situation we're in. We're staged problem solving. This is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u87	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u88	Minister, you just said that Russian coal imports of Russian coal are not competitive for Polish coal, because Polish coal does not have those properties that have coal imported from Russia. At the same time, you said that you were preparing a program to extract coal that would eliminate Russian coal from our market. If there is such a program, then, as I understand it, there is also an economic analysis of how much of this coal, which will eliminate Russian coal, can be extracted in Poland. Can I find out what the costs are? What will be the amount of coal that we will extract from Polish mines? What size of Russian imports will we eliminate in this way?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u89	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u90	It's official today. But what I want to say is that there is a certain error in the estimate of the 5 million t of Russian coal on the Polish market. Among other things, the mine has decided on certain projects related to the preparation of an offer that can compete in detail. We're talking mainly about detail. With a Russian offer. It is also so that Russian coal is largely mixed with Polish coal. This is mainly a matter of heat and power plants, but not only. I would like to point out that the offer which Polish mines could have offered has somehow been slowed down. In order to replace Russian coal on the Polish market with coal, we need to increase mining in certain mines and prepare this product so that it can be sold in an unmixed form, available for detail. Because Russian coal is sold in these various markets primarily as a retail product for individuals. That's 90 million t. Half of it's really Russian coal... This is something we have to face. One of the mines has already started such activities. We will be discussing that other mines will also introduce this product to the Polish market, because this will allow us to deal with this phenomenon in real terms.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u91	Senator Ryszka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u92	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you for this extensive explanation, but I have one more question. We're gonna roll a little bit when it comes to Polish coal. What is the ratio of the Ministry to foreign investments, the construction of mines by the Germans? Here I am thinking about the mine of Birkenau III, about Peanut, Międzyrzecz, Bojszów. There, various foreign companies want to build mines and, so to speak, make a profit. Before that, they're gonna have to put millions of dollars in it to make these mines. They're gonna make it worth their while, and we're still not getting paid. How does the Ministry feel about that? I know there are huge protests of the inhabitants of these towns. Is there going to be a green light for these investors on our side, the ministry, or are we going to block it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u93	In the first place, the information that reaches us because there are requests for a license... There is an interest in building mines, which, notice, is positive information for us, because it means that there is potential in Polish mines. This is positive information. From this we must draw conclusions and ask ourselves why it is the way it is with us. This diagnosis, from which we come out, quite detailed, would allow us to build financial technological and investment structures. However, I'm speaking more as Tobiszowski now, because we don't have a position of ministry... If concessions were to be a problem for the development of Polish mines, we would have to think deeply about whether such concessions should be issued. Because in the first place it is the task of the Ministry and the Polish government to build a construction of the efficiency of the Polish hard coal sector, the Polish economy. And at the moment when a private mine with a foreign investor will be a potential in this construction and will create synergies for us, I think that decision should be made. And in a situation where such an investment will be an obstacle to the development of the Polish mine and in the development of our intentions, in the projects we are planning, we will rather signal that we would not wish for such an undertaking in one area or another. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u94	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Marian the Messenger. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about energy development based on brown coal. Does the Ministry intend to support new open-air mines in any way in the near future? I am thinking especially about planned or potentially planned discoveries in Wielkopolska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u96	As far as brown coal is concerned, we are actually facing a problem, because in some time we may have a shortage of this brown coal in Polish energy. There is a question of planning projects and investments. I will not answer precisely whether we will make such decisions about Wielkopolska, because there are issues of protest, there are social issues... But we should definitely diagnose the prospect in the first quarter when it comes to planning the amount of brown coal in Polish energy. Because for today, tomorrow or next year, there are no such problems, but we must be aware that the mine will not arise overnight, and the information we have shows that in a few years we may actually have a problem, we may have a shortage of brown coal for those needs which will have Polish energy based on brown coal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask Senator Krystian Probier.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u98	Minister, you haven't mentioned enough financial burdens on mining here. So I just want to remind you that, because maybe you haven't heard about it, that there are 35 different taxes, parataxes, danins, and the price of coal is charged with this type of tax. And I'm going to add, by the way, that, according to the latest figures, the big banks that we have here have been paying some 4 billion in taxes, and mining is paying around 7 billion every year in the form of taxes, danins and parataxes. This is a very important issue, and the Minister merely signalled it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u99	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u100	Mr. Senator, this sequence is important, I didn't mention it, but I think it's good to point out here, too, that Jastrzębska Węglowa had her debut on the stock exchange, she also paid large amounts in the form of dividends. The calculations show that it was a couple of billions that contributed to the state budget. And today, the problem of the Jastrzębska Coal Company... But this is a simplification, because it's not the only issue, there's a lot of things to do, and the price of coal to be clear, because it has to be done objectively, but also the increase in investment costs, the unnecessary construction of a large capital structure, a large holding company. Although the idea itself is good, but when it turned out that there was a deconuncture, it had to be stopped... But these are the issues that have contributed to all of this, there have been many actions that have contributed to the current situation. I'm sure one of the elements was that Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa after the stock market debut for going to the stock exchange, took her racket back to the Ministry of Finance, patching the budget hole once. And two: there was a dividend that was received in the following year, also to the state budget. And three: the last decision, i.e. the purchase of the Mercedes, is what I call it, is the Mercedes in quotes. "Knurów-Szczygłowice', a mine with high potential, where huge investments are required. So the decision to save for a few months of liquidity in the Coal Company caused Jastrzębska to dive deep and could not get out of this place, even quilting to the bottom, on 30 November was actually going to stay completely at that bottom. We are slowly bounced back by building the right investments, an appropriate plan, as I mentioned to you. But it is very important to be aware that if the owner treats his companies of the State Treasury only as business ventures, financial ventures, without looking at what can further happen in the economic space of a given industry, it may result in such a difficult situation as we have in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. Yes, thank you, Senator, for that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u102	Minister, such a brief question concerning the level of knowledge with which the Minister meets, entering the Ministry of Economy. I'm having second thoughts about whether you've found the entire sector in stock, with full knowledge, with efficiency, with all the assets, to... well, to plan effectively, you have to have something like this. I ask that question for a reason. When a pact was made for Silesia a year ago, we had huge problems to learn from government administration any knowledge of the potential of the entire mining sector. Tell me, Minister, what it looks like right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, as I said about the Coal Company, we have an analysis, I would say, really good or very good, I must admit. As far as the carbon holding company is concerned, I honestly admit that I didn't have time to review... Holding provided me with the documents, but I had no possibility of these documents with the people working at the Ministry to review them. And in Jastrzębska Coal Company there was no such material, it is currently being developed. So the question arose as to the basis on which the investment plans were constructed. I also want to tell you that I'm wondering... I mentioned what was going on, I'm gonna run back a little bit. In the case of the mine Kazimierz-Juliusz. I'm sure those senators who were in the last term remember. More than 200 million to liquidate the mine, which should have a pre-launched plan to drain the deposit and natural closure of the mine by exploding it. There were projects, investments. There is a question about the validity of these investments. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to face up and collide in the case of mines with the validity of certain investments. These are huge organisms, each mine is its own individual community. Although they are in one structure, they extract similar or even the same coal, each of them is specific. And now, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to find out which investments and what will be most effective. We also touch on the issue today. It's, among other things. The Higher Mining Authority submits a decrease in the efficiency of coal extraction per employee. The question arises whether it is only that there are far removed ancestors, that it is necessary to travel long, here by car, here by rail, or by elevator, or whether it is possible to organize the possibility of entering and using the employee more effectively. Before this challenge, ladies and gentlemen, we stand and this needs to be analysed for each mine. There's a question about the sales system, the public procurement system. I'll tell you this because that's what you have to say: directors have reduced shopping volume. How's every manager doing intelligently? Well, they've been increasing the volume of those purchases. One can imagine that size is similar as before. By fragmentation... This causes us not to increase efficiency, ladies and gentlemen. And now we also have to ask about the mining environment, about the entities that function. We need a lot of them, but maybe they don't all have to have so many jobs. We need to think about the environment in which the mine operates, because in one place there will be a need for greater support for external companies, in others not necessarily. Now you have to ask yourself whether in fact in the case of a given mine there must be an increase in the amount of investment, because we increase the extraction. Because in some mines, not necessarily, if. We don't have a proper outlet for this coal today. So let's keep this mine at a certain level of mining, in a certain level of readiness, and when we get through the deconstructive period, we'll be able to raise money and invest. At this point, we will stimulate the operation of the mine. Ladies and gentlemen, we will stand as well. That's what I'm trying to say, too. Before our environmental efficiency in energy and coal combustion will increase. We won't be needing him that much anymore, notice. So that's how we measure the investment, how we plan the amount of extraction. That is why I will say something unpopular: I believe that there are no markets related to the hard coal sector. There must be interference and activity of the Ministry, the owner. As for what Senator Ryszka asked, there can be no such thing as us allowing market competition. Because then we will not be able to control the phenomena that make our players compete with each other. Of course, we have to try to do this so that we don't impose too much on our decisions. But notice that if we're building energy and mining structures, it's not to weaken energy. The essence is that we create synergies of potentials, i.e. synergies between the recipient and the one that gives the raw material supply. After all, ladies and gentlemen, even if we wanted and could say something abstract To eliminate coal, what will our economy base our energy on? These are obvious issues which are sometimes reported in different media as some, unknown, solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have coal-based energy and we need to be able to overtake the phenomena that are ahead of us. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we, apart from the fact that we are trying, so to say, to catch organizationally every mine and structure in which the mines will function, will try to involve the hard coal sector. Not to give ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, for a year, for two, for three breaths, because then we'll have a worse situation than today. No, we, ladies and gentlemen, must be able to create such a structure, so that these deconciliations, which appear cyclically, do not make us continue to restructure, because we simply cannot afford it. So that this, ladies and gentlemen, is a challenge that will last for the entire term of office. We know that we will have to respond to the second phenomenon by catching one phenomenon. And yet before us, the matter of heat and power plants itself, investments in them, but also what they are supposed to be based on. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you know that some of them have gone to gas. The question is, isn't it right? It's something that's ahead of us, too. That's why this ministry has one, not another. The idea is to coordinate this so that we also build tools at government level to coordinate certain economic processes, not just sectoral ones. And that's why I protest very much when I notice that hard coal becomes such an on-call boy to beat in the Polish economy. Sometimes... Few critics want to know why it is, why it happened. Of course, let's not hide, there are reserves, but it's not the fault of the employees, the people who follow orders. And it often happens that, unfortunately, the consequences of programs affect people who work solidly, following orders that create visions. And I also know that right now I'm talking about myself.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is asked by Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u105	Minister, you have presented us here the concept of mining, I understand, the newly created Ministry of Energy. I have a question... You have presented the idea that we will withdraw from imported coal, we will try to replace it with our national coal. Right? I have a question about whether these deposits of coal are sufficient. To be precise, I would like to ask whether there are, or whether, concepts for the reactivation of mines that were closed in the 1990s will be developed. Many times it was widely discussed that there were mines that had significant, significant deposits of good quality coal. I'll name KWK, Niwka-Modrzejów... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Sztampowy example.]] Yes. Are these ideas of yours... I mean, are there such concepts, possibly, or will such concepts arise, because when coal is replaced we will have to have good quality significant deposits of our own coal?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u106	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u107	From the knowledge I draw from experts in terms of availability to the deposit, I know that once a closed mine with current technology... Well, you don't take the same route to the same deposit for the second time, or you get to it from the other side. As far as the coal supply is concerned, I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we have it in surplus for a few generations. And even we have to take into account what I mentioned, that coal burning will have to naturally reduce, because the efficiency of combustion in power plants will be greater, so we will not have to maximize by force when it comes to the internal market, the extraction of Polish coal. Let's see that the external market is also very narrowing, among others. as a result of actions that are related to the religious approach to the climate package, because it is not a rational but even a religious approach. This definitely makes the foreign market narrow. Hence we build a construction based primarily on the usefulness of Polish hard coal, i.e. It's like we're turning things around, which means in some places we're going to try to reduce coal extraction, because the excess of coal makes us have a problem, among other things. It's expensive, which ruins the market. That is why we want to strike a balance between impact and investment planning. As regards the resources in Poland of hard coal, I am not afraid of them, I think that the next generations will be able to draw on these resources calmly. The essence of the matter is that we should be able to use these resources properly and properly, among others. trying to use them through the implementation of new technologies, e.g. by gassing coal for Polish chemistry, as I mentioned. About the plans... As far as the mine of Nivka-Modrzejów is concerned, it is actually a flagship example of a mine with quite significant and specific resources, to put it mildly from a historical point of view. Closed. There's a lot of investment there, and some people know that it was investments... There's Senator Probier, who was close to it, so I think he's a bigger treasurer of knowledge than I am about this case. Well, that's where the big investments have been made, ladies and gentlemen, and the walls have been prepared. I remember, and I was definitely younger than I was today... [[The Bishop was a saint.]] Yes, the bishop was celebrating, and after a few weeks the mine was closed. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is something that is incomprehensible. That's also what we're talking about today. Someone's planning an investment, somebody's planning to spend some money, and suddenly it's a decision: we're shutting down the mine. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to refer to my predecessors because it's the easiest way to criticize our predecessors when we face challenges. But, ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you something that has come up. The Mine of Room, the Mine of Brzeszcze, the investment work was undertaken, the walls were prepared, as I remember, the drainage stations were prepared and suddenly what did it turn out to be? A decision has been made on the liquidation. Ladies and gentlemen, why were these millions invested? Then let us agree that there was no proper diagnosis or planned management in this area. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I say it loudly and I have the courage to say it, although I know that many will argue with me, and I cannot imagine that the presidents of individual companies, especially those producing coal from coal to coke or other, will act according to the principle: the president maximizes profit. Of course these entities aren't supposed to act to make it negative, but they can't fight a fraternal battle. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the same owner causes the operators, the tools in his hand, to be so competitive that they are dumping the price of coal. And the recipient, especially foreign, has a great advantage on this, and it is Polish coal, owned by the appropriate Ministry, the Polish government. [[Let's keep it that way.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u108	Thank you, Minister. Please ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u109	I am pleased, Minister, that you speak so much about brown coal. I'm from Lubusian soil. On Lubuskie soil in a large agglomeration of Gubin-Brody are huge deposits of brown coal. And as you probably know and know, several kilometers from the border in Jänschwalde, with a similar deposit, the Germans have built a powerful three thousand that works smoothly and creates like cheap energy to this day. Even when the unification took place and everyone thought that this power plant in Jänschwalde would be put out of business, nothing like that happened, on the contrary, Minister: I must say that there has been a powerful modernisation. As a curiosity, I would like to remind you that in the 1980s this power plant was built by Polish engineers, Polish specialists. I'm talking a little sarcastic here because we've been discussing our deposits for a very, very long time. The Treasury has committed many omissions in this case. Groups have been formed, various components that block... But they're blocking because they showed up. Let's make a deal with the green people who are definitely funded by huge corporations, as they are able to make publications on better paper than our Treasury, who is trying to capture this dialogue with residents. Dear Minister, I'm pleased to hear you mention brown coal. So my question to you is, do you know this case? And do you have a vision of what to do with this thing? After all, this discussion has been going on for years, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u110	I'll answer that. I know it. I don't have that kind of vision today, which I'm sorry about. However, I had the opportunity, even as a parliamentarians of the previous term, to be on the pages referred to here and to be familiar with this problem. And that's why I know that this case is a matter where the government has to say... I think the current ministry will have to lean over it. But for today, ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I have no position. And I'm not gonna answer what it's supposed to be. I know we're dealing with a rather complex situation here, not just a social one. It is also, as you probably know, a law, on the one hand, that is right, because it allows small communities, local communities, to express their position in the form of a referendum on whether to build an open mine or not. And we know that a small community, if it's organized properly, can block us from this project. And here we are facing the challenge that I mentioned earlier, particularly regarding lignite. It is important to plan some work on opencast mines, because we really will be facing... And this, I think, in the current parliamentary term, we can, so to speak, face a negative balance when it comes to the demand for brown coal and the possibilities for its extraction. And it will be a shame for the Republic of Poland if we have to reach for coal from our western neighbour, who, as if gently predicted this phenomenon, carries out some investment work. So that we in the ministry certainly have these points in mind. But we also need to take the issue of brown coal as a whole, sit down to... notice, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, that brown coal does not appear as a subject. Because he's not the problem right now. It often happens that if something isn't a problem, we don't analyze it. And it's not until it starts crashing... This is a big mistake. So that I thank you for bringing up this issue, but we will also have to determine what is next as regards the approval of certain investments and investment plans for brown coal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u111	Thank you so much for saying that... [[Thank you very much.]] ...and I'm glad that you can sense the intentions of our neighbors who would like to sell us electricity so that we, if I were to say so, would pay a huge amount of money on this brown coal... Minister, if you don't mind... I'm in the Lubuskie Society... [[But, I'm sorry...]] ...for Energy Development. I'll invite you to the land of the Lubuskie... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you.]] ...so that we can sit down together and talk about these issues. It doesn't matter what the colors are.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u112	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Senator. High Senate, adjourned. We will return to this item and to the place where we are now, after the break. At 6:00 p.m., I'll announce a recess by 7:00 p.m. But before that, I would like to propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. and consider it as point six. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's no objection. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a recess until 7:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy Grzegorz Tobiszowski: Thank you, Mrs Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.]] [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 55 to 19 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u113	I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. We return to the questions of the government representative. Senator Rusiecki came forward. You're welcome... [[Voice from the room: But there is no...]] There isn't? [[I am, I am, Mr. Marshal, but there is no Minister Tobiszowski, and that is a problem. I can ask you a question, but maybe there's a problem, because right now the vote starts in the Seym...]] And the Minister is also an MEP. [[Then I withdraw the question.]] There's another question from Senator Probier... [[I'm pulling out, too.]] He's pulling out, too? Good. Thank you very much. Since none of your senators want to ask a question, I'm opening a discussion. You were the first to speak to Senator Augustine. You're welcome. [[Senator Augustine isn't here.]] There's no senator. So, senator hare. [[He's coming, he's coming.]] [[Senator Hare now.]] [[You can change the order...]] Senator Hare. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! They'll probably be three years ago, like we had in the Senate, on the top floor, a conference on energy sources. I think that was her name, if I remember correctly. And there was a moment when, after all the speeches of various people, whose fantasy was clearly added, the angry rector of AGH from Krakow asked for the floor It's really stuck in my memory. He said that he would want the cost of obtaining 1 kW of electricity by a method other than coal to be less than 2.5 times per carbon in his lifetime. And then there was silence in the courtroom after all the ideas that we'd be getting energy from weeds, and that's from something green, and that's from the wind, and that's from something else. It seems to me that humanity is contaminated with perpetuum mobile disease, it comes back every once in a while like boomerang and torments us, we tire ourselves, we torment others. But by the way, some people have a way of living. I enjoyed this speech very much, and I remind everyone: are you in favour of green energy? There you go. You get the electric bill, multiply it by 2.5. , go and pay, and then I'll know that you're actually a green energy supporter. That's what's left of me. Somehow very much in consciousness. But speaking of the things that have been mentioned here, I must say that the Minister's speech... I'd totally sign off on some of his thesis, but I'm a little disappointed in part. And I was disappointed in the extent that we were not actually talking about coal issues, we were talking about the problem of coal mining in Silesia. And this is different. If Polish coal were only in Silesia, then of course everything would be fine. And so it's purely mathematical, logical error, which says that looking for maximum on a large set doesn't mean looking for maximum on a subset. The coal in Poland is also elsewhere. The deposits are tested, they're known... I mean the Lublin region, which is somehow so programmed in all discussions very much overlooked. Why is she so important? First of all, these are huge deposits. I have applied myself to the fact that the research required for the construction of the mine has already been carried out in two localities. In Sawin and Paul under Chelm. It is not far from Bogdanka, but Bogdanka has been politically located on the edge of the deposit under quite unfavourable geological conditions The famous whore is getting tired... But even in this situation, we have to remember... If we're talking about the economy, we need to talk about money, about the cost of all this. And that was ignored here. These costs look like this. Extraction of tons of coal in Silesia, where this coal is beginning to run out, where it is sought under adverse geological conditions, where, as we have heard, part of the mine is already shutting down and others will have to close. Two coal pits are already closed, e.g. Wałbrzych... The price of mining of tons of coal there varies between PLN 380 and PLN 400. Coal imported from Russia... I once asked for accurate data on who brought in the coal because bad rumors were circling... Turns out these companies are over 90. And that's an interesting reading. I think the professor has the data, too. It would be good to get acquainted with them. This coal is imported and sold within the limits of 250 PLN. In Bogdanka it is extracted for 150 PLN. Professor Kaliski of AGH overseeing the recent drilling in these two towns that qualified for the construction of the mine, in my inaugural lecture at the university, said that coal could be mined in them at a price of 100 PLN per tonne. And that's because there's no chicken, the deposits are very even and there's a chalk overlay over the coal. Three layers of coal can be exploited there. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. m; 2.60 m and 2.30 m. This qualifies for the cheapest way to extract coal... There is no gas there, there are no other obstacles that cause the costs of coal extraction to increase. That's why I think if we're stuck with coal and we have to stay with coal, there's no alternative for us here... Unless we can afford to spend a lot of money, but they count in billions. These aren't dollars spent on something over there, it's like it seems. Now that it's in the spring for social affairs, billions have gone to Silesia. That's a big problem, because I don't know what kind of budget you'd have to have, how rich a country you'd be to afford that kind of thing. Economics here must be taken into account. Therefore, I think that the extreme approach to coal extraction shows what we should do and which way work and reflection should go. I understand social issues, I understand the issues of this environment, which is related to coal, the whole infrastructure, which is increasingly burdening the costs of extraction, but thinking concrete, one where finances are in the first place, applies to us. Let's not pretend there's no coal anywhere else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. Now for the floor, I'd like to speak with Senator Hare. [[Is that another one?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Sorry, Senator Augustine. Senator Hare just spoke. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Senator Hare made it a little easier for me to say that mining is, above all, an economy, one of the most important parts of it. I just wanted to argue with that, 'cause really mining is a thing. for all of us, and for very important social reasons, above all social reasons, because our energy is ultimately the cost of production, it is a question of unemployment. Our mines are also expenses. The funds intended for them are not made of rubber, yes, financials should be remembered, but everything takes place at a cost. In fact, this is not the issue that we are considering today, this billion from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund, 3 billion in total for all the benefits, the resources we want to keep from the previous government programme, so that they are for the regulation in the new hand for new proposals, but this is a matter of really very urgent and concerning every family, each and every one of us. It is up to us to solve these issues that we will pay our bills in our homes and whether the concept of energy poverty will come to us with high unemployment, whether we have a competitive economy or not. And the situation at this point is extremely dramatic, and because of previous omissions, and because of the deconuncture. We have a great deal of effort ahead of us to overcome alpine slalom with the highest degree of difficulty. There must be a link between opportunities and European requirements, between opportunities and climate requirements, taking into account the price of sales, competition, trade union expectations, energy needs and what we call energy security. And it won't be easy to overcome all these barriers, fit between these gates and move fast enough, because mining for years each government in turn teaches humility. You spoke of this humility to the Minister, reminding me that it is a need for humility. But I'm bouncing the ball, and I'm saying, "Yeah, you had to do it." We need to say with humility: we lack determination in an economic age, but now we need to approach the matter without excessive optimism, realisticly and humbly. Because the situation is extremely difficult, at the end of the year losses in this sector will amount to almost PLN 2 billion. And I do not share the Minister's optimism that there is a chance that in some close perspective it would be decent, in relation to what is now, and the cost-effective price of coal. It seems that we can come down with this price if we invest I think that sounded good in the Minister's mouth. But to invest well also means to be aware of the goal we want to achieve. It seems that this announcement, which fell here, that the Ministry will present, also to the Senate, by April 'Cause that's how I figured it out. A comprehensive scheme for mining should come to us. I would like to ask you, Mr President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to make sure that this programme is presented here, and, if necessary, Mr Marshal, it will be discussed throughout the House. Because we agree here that the case is of the utmost importance. You have a unique opportunity: it is the beginning of your term, you have a better relationship than the Platform with trade unions, so overcoming this one barrier, this one difficulty, maybe you'll come a little easier than we would if we could. But it is also, of course, to the best of this chance, a huge commitment to not waste it. And I would like to invite you very cordially. The issue of greenhouse gas emissions cannot be addressed lightly either. The Minister has spoken here with some disrespect about climate religion. This religion already has its pope, our pope, who insists on... [[The Pope is one.]] Yeah, that's why it's the same. ... Who admonishes and admonishes us about climate and action for it. We cannot be deaf to this voice from Rome, nor can we be deaf to what the whole world says about it, including those who have recently been on the matter the same way as the Minister just said. The United States or China questioned the impact of CO2 emissions on the climate on Earth, but that's in the past. That is why I think that we too, when setting targets, must also take into account the development of the latest technologies, innovation issues, because the reality in which we are about to find ourselves may surprise us completely about energy. Then we won't only race Russian coal, we won't just count on the price of oil, which, as a source of energy, also has an impact here, but we will have to face the latest technologies that will make energy cheaper. Because we are witnessing an extraordinary paradox: energy kills us I'm talking about solar energy. And we're running out of energy to make the right use of that energy. But the breakthrough is already at the doorstep, and that's what we're gonna have to face in a minute. Therefore, looking at mining, let us look at the needs of all citizens, at social needs, but also at the development of state-of-the-art technologies. Let's not narrow our view down just to industry competition, because then we'll get lost, and that's not gonna be a good direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. I now give the floor to Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u118	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The current restructuring of mines, namely the creation of the Company for Restructuring of Mines, to which 11 plants are to enter, is carried out under pressure of time. I'm aware of that. However, I hope that the Ministry of Energy has a full assessment of all the effects of this procedure. But I understand we have no other choice right now. So I wish the Ministry of Energy and Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski success personally, because it will be a success for Poland. However, on this occasion I would like to express a few concerns. Several concerns about the state of mining plants and the Polish coal mining industry. Let me remind you that according to official data, our hard coal stock is over 54 billion t, and the present value of this stock is about 10 trillion PLN. Needless to say, our national treasures, natural resources will be the key to our independence for years, as well as energy security. Such wealth, such natural resources as I said, are a true national treasure, and I am surprised that the cancelled ministers, presidents, directors, instead of mismanagement of this property, have been rewarded with huge briefings. It must also be surprising that over the past 26 years the so-called. Polish transformation in the world has tripled from 3 to more than 8 billion t per year . coal extraction. The reason is very simple. The demand for energy and the possibility of producing the cheapest electricity, heat or cold from coal have increased to this level. And when coal mining was increasing in the world, at the same time in Poland, contrary to world trends, almost three times its production was reduced, and in addition mining was burdened in an extremely irrational way with various taxes, administrative fees, excise duties, even penalties, which together with pathological management Whether you're conscious or not It led Polish mining to the brink of bankruptcy. Well, I don't have to tell you what happens after bankruptcy, because we've already survived on the example of thousands of different Polish industrial plants sold out for pricelessness. Was this the scenario prepared by Deputy Prime Minister Balcerowicz also for Polish mining plants? Wasn't that the vision of Prime Minister Jerzy Buzek when he destroyed 19 viable mines? If there hasn't been a collapse of mining plants yet, I dare say that's what happened because of the determination of often reprimanded mining unions. Anything to say about them is defending jobs or even the so-called. The privileges, which are for this hard work, have defended our national wealth. So it's not just the so-called one. Deconciliation in the coal market has caused today's difficult mining situation. I will remind you that only during the last year of the Civic Platform's reign, hundreds of people in ministries, supervisory boards, management boards, mining management companies promised gold mountains by writing various restructuring projects. However, no project has been prepared showing this development potential of the mining industry on market terms that would convince the owner, the Minister of State Treasury, to raise the capital of mining plants on market terms, which would not be regarded as unlawful public aid. At this point I would also like to refer to the model proposed by the Ministry of Energy, and also by the previous government, the model of linking failing mining plants with power plants. It is clear what has already been recalled here that the first fire was taken by the mine, which was connected to Tauron. I would like to warn you that this marriage should take place with extreme caution and vigilance. I am not saying that the purpose of such a merger is to bring both companies into bankruptcy, i.e. to take over mining and energy at the same time by the hidden western capital in energy companies. I will just remind you that in individual energy companies this western capital is: in the Polish Energy Group More than 41%, more than 48% in Enea, more than 48% in Energa, and more than 48% in Tauron, more than 53% in Tauron, except that the State Treasury has only 30% of its own shares in Tauron. Thus, although these equity capital in these energy companies are in excellent condition at present, these negative or zero equity capital of the Coal Company will certainly bring these companies down strongly. I very much appreciate the words of Minister Tobiszowski, who has just admitted that he does not know the full solution to the problem at this moment, because it is in these new technologies that the issue of coal gasification has emerged. In the operational management, i.e. in the infrastructure of these companies as independent institutions, there are powerful growth reserves. I think there are certainly many ways to help the mining industry. And I'll just give you a hint. It could be, for example. establishment of a handling fee, a border charge for coal imported to Poland. This may be the appointment of the Polish Coal Company for direct sale of coal from mines. This could be the creation of state-owned construction and repair companies and services in place of private companies that are exactly ruining mines. I will just remind you such a proverbial example that a light bulb, which costs 5 PLN 30 gr in the shop, is bought in the mine for 20 PLN. What's there to say about all kinds of high-tech machines? It would be possible to delegate miners and some mental workers from low and expensive mines to the mentioned various construction and renovation companies in which they would carry out preparatory work in mining divisions, whether in parent mines or elsewhere. Of course, it is possible to set up a mining and energy bank, the capital of which would be provided by mining plants. I also believe that our commitment in this term of office, during the term of law and justice, should be to introduce into the Constitution of the Republic of Poland provisions which would clearly determine that natural natural resources in the atmosphere, biosphere, hydrosphere, litosphere in the territory of our country are the property of the Polish people. And finally, I'd like to believe I'm already referring to the bill here. In any event, the sale of these establishments does not imply that the entity's activities are terminated in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u119	Thank you very much, Senator Ryszka. Senator Probie will take the floor right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I was, in effect, provoked by various debaters, my previous speakers. I'm gonna take turns, one at a time, one at a time, one at a time. Some of the attention is addressed to Senator Augustine. As far as energy is concerned, we all know that for a long time there has been a decline in energy prices. And have any of you observed a reduction in energy prices in households? It is likely that there will be another gas tariff for next quarter. So where did they accumulate these resources? It's like, by the way... [[A 20% increase in energy...]] But this price drop has been observed for a long time. Another point raised here, religion. Maybe not necessarily... Maybe, maybe not, it's more of a business. And what they say in the world... Let them tell each other. They say things. I can quote the words of one of the vice presidents of the United States, nota bene noblista, Ala Gore. This is to be checked, this has been recorded in the election. In Silesia, the environmental pollution in Silesia is so large that people had to go down to the mines to survive. You can check it out, and it's not a joke. At first I thought it was a joke. As a child, as I remember, I was suffering from a cough. It was a disease that frightened children. And there was supposed to be a method: either flying an airplane to change the pressure, or going down to the mine. Sorry, but nothing like that. Costs. Costs I'm addressing my colleague here. They're different. I can tell you that the omissions made by the previous crew in the field of mining reform are in some cases unworkable. Let me give you one example. In May, the two worst coal mines and coal companies were taken over, and they made a great deal because they got rid of the worst coal mines that didn't stand a chance. And, ladies and gentlemen, from May to December, these two mines, at a price of $47 10 cents on the ARA markets, generate a slight profit. I repeat: May to December And that's how it's gonna be. I don't know how long this price discount will still be possible. So you can improve the organization of work, and the costs... Generally, coal or coal mining costs in Lublin are, of course, lower than in Lublin... The issue of brown coal mine, which I would like to refer to, was also raised here, even in the previous discussion. We already know the script... It's been calculated very simply. If there are no investments made in new brown coal mines, then... We know exactly when we're gonna run out of energy. The cost of building a brown coal mine, as well as time, must be taken into account. You can't do a new mine in a year. I agree with Senator Augustine on energy security. That's what you have to base it on. There are security costs, and I think it's possible to bear those costs. I've already told you about the tax burden. Now, about the situation... 6, 7 billion is indeed missing from our mining this year. That's a negative result... Sorry, it's 1 to 2 billion short, while 6 to 7 billion mining is budgeting. Now the issue of new technologies, which were also mentioned. We really need to take a look at this. According to my knowledge, these are technologies mature enough that it is a matter of a year or two and they will be able to enter industrial production. I'm talking about the so-called. Earth-based coal gasification. Thus à speaking of one of the major coal-based countries is South Africa. About 40 to 45 million t per year of coal is converted into gas. In our case, that would be very interesting. Somehow we'd be independent of the supply of gas from the East. And the question of the quality of coal and imports. I will not say everything, but at least this: does anyone in Poland have any reservations about the quality of our apples? No. And we know that in some countries We all know what country you're talking about. These apples, according to checks, aren't good for anything. I could also propose ways of controlling, so that imported coal would not be suitable for anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Gazweda is speaking at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Let us remember that today's discussion includes the complete amendment of the law on the operation of hard coal mining, the law that was introduced in 2007 and that law, which in fact constituted such a first overall systematization of all issues relating to the mining sector, mainly hard coal mining. Ladies and gentlemen, allow us also to introduce a little of this historical systematics. Well, we remember the period of transformation when the price of coal was frozen. Coal prices have been frozen to stabilise the entire financial and economic sector to stop inflation. That's when mining lasted. Why? First of all, she took the burden. Secondly, the managers of these plants, then not yet companies, because the companies were not, but they were individual operators in the form of mines... Well, it was managed by a very good staff, engineering and mining staff, a staff that was able to create a new model, to go through this difficult path. I remember when 25 years ago I was employed as an intern at the mine and later as a mountaineer; the professor was here as my academic teacher... I remember that when we were on the mine at 10 walls, I'd explain, because maybe it's not so obvious to you. In other words, 10 such places where there was a mining concentration were 10,000 tons a day. Now, in modern mining, with modern, efficient machines and transport equipment installed, we can operate 10?12 thousand t per day on two such walls. What does that do? The fact that the operating system is completely changing and efficiency is improving. However, we must also be aware that through these years of mining operations, mainly in Upper Silesia, we have come down with depth. Nor is it a mystery to all those who know a little of this problem, that the deeper we feed, the more expensive it is, the greater the dangers, the so-called. associations including temperature, gas, rock, etc., dullness, high energy shocks, but also better quality is carbon. Coal's worse off, coal's better. I'm not going to go into detail here. It's deeper than that. And we can also sell more expensive coal like that. This is coke coal, these are carbon sortements that are sold to individual customers. Dear Senators, today we have such a situation that we are discussing the functioning of hard coal mining and the amendment of this law. Let us remember that we are all getting revenge today for not taking advantage of the good times. In fact, we must humbly approach all of this today. It cannot be said that everything that is already being prepared is perfect. No, it certainly still requires a lot of very deep analysis. But I think that if we could create a program that could also overcome these obstacles, I would say, social distrust, social distrust... Let me remind you: miners are therefore distrustful that many times by various crews were deceived. Today we simply need to create such a system of dialogue to convince the social side too of good solutions. However, we cannot create this in isolation from such real technological realities. I, as a miner and a geologist, as a practice because for 25 years I worked in mining, passing all levels of management in mining, am convinced that the introduction of good, modern high-performance technologies Not only is it possible, but it is necessary. And even in such difficult mining as in Upper Silesia, which is already quite strong and deep-positioned, such technologies can be introduced, and efficiency can be improved. We need to make a proper stock assessment, and where these resources go... An example of mine in which I started to work, mine of Anna, connected then to mine of Rydułtowy, which will be transferred to SRK, because already the last wall... That's where the last year's operation takes place. In this example, this analysis must be carried out and these bets should be transferred to SRK. This law, which was discussed during the meeting of the committee, allows such transfer of non-productive, non-productive assets to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. And finally, I'm gonna say with such a little optimism... In Lublin, among others. Coal Company has done some research, and indeed coal there is relatively shallow, little bouncing, with good parameters. Thus it is possible to operate also in this region. But let's not forget that mining isn't about entering with a shaft, with one mining level, and then moving out after a while. Mining is also some of the consequences of underground exploitation due to the need to secure this mountaineer after exploitation, it needs to be prepared to be permanently transferred to normal operation when it comes to the surface. But it's possible. For the future of our entire energy sector... It's possible. Our potential and scientific, and technological enables really good management, good functioning. Let me stress once again: the economic periods we have had can never be wasted again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think a good word is due to the Ministry for continuing the program that Prime Minister Kopacz initiated. The reflection of this programme is this discussion. Senator Augustine stressed that mining is not a problem it is only an economic problem, it is also a social problem. Senator Gawada, as a miner, rightly draws attention to objective problems, economic problems, technical problems. I'd add security to that, but the miners, not just energy. Nevertheless, each programme has its limits. It is not true, Senator Ryszka, as well as Mr Gawada, that all governments turn their backs on coal mining or even deceive miners. The history of decades proves that various attempts have been made to reform mining: from attempts to select for good and bad, through the combination of good and bad Jacek Kuroń here ♪ I'm bowing ♪ So that good pulls bad, through economics... You're wrong, Senator Gawada, that the fight against inflation and the freezing of prices destroyed mining. In contrast, the fight against inflation saved the remnants of the socialist economy. If we hadn't been fighting inflation, we wouldn't have mined 200 million tons of coal for communes, but maybe 300 million tons, if the miners in Wałbrzych had agreed on these starving rates and on these dangerous working conditions on their knees. But, as we know, they didn't agree. They were the forpost of Solidarity, they actually struck the death blow of communes when it came to social issues. Thus, the fight against inflation was also a fight against unreliable economic accounts, also in mines, and consequently On the railroad, and in the wake of this In the chemistry sector, which is now reflected because Polish chemistry is weak, among other things, by energy prices, which are generated by coal prices. But I want to get back to the fact that every program has its limitations and if these restrictions don't move in, Minister, then this fight, including you, will be kicking the horse. Well, horses have nice plumes and miners have nice plumes, it's a beautiful tradition. There's supposed to be billions of tons of coal. - Somebody said that. Only the value of coal, the value of shale, the value of sulphur or salt depends on how much this material is behind, but on whether it will be extracted, at what price and whether it will be sold. Today the mining industry is showing its miserable face The coal can't be sold. That's what cheating was all about. And I admit that even my colleague, whose name I don't want to mention, lied to us, too, when he took action, that supposedly Russia was threatening us. A week ago, a viable mine was closed in England, not because Russia is threatening, just because Colombian coal and American shale are threatening. We started chasing a fox that didn't have a tail, so there was nothing to catch. It was misled by the miners that 80 companies that trade Russian coal were at risk, and this coal was cheaper and sometimes even better. But I'm going back to the main thread. Kicking with a horse also results from the fact that we believe that coal technology has a chance, as Senator Gawada said that today he is still right to be. I say that after the wood technology, the world switched to coal technology, then to gas technology, and Poland started to build coal technology from that point on, i.e. from the commune. In the meantime, they switched to atom technology, and today to The technology of slate. And whatever we do, whatever programs we put together, coal will lose to the new shale technology. The miners will pay for it. The voltages. Poland will pay for this. We will feed on illusions all over Europe. And Europe believes that coal in Poland is a European problem. And it is not Europe or the world that will switch to coal technology, but Poland, unfortunately, must make an effort and there is nothing to feed on illusions. And that's what it takes to do with these kinds of programs: gradually cutting apples out of these worst skins, out of the worst diseases, so that only the right and economically justified testicle is left. And this, I have such concerns, will lose to technology that we are not dictating and which we are not able to resist. If we feed everyone with illusions, we will continue to travel in a beautiful, picturesque steamcar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u126	Thank you. I was very brief because the speakers had exhausted the subject. And these are gentlemen who have professor titles and know what they're saying. I work at the Institute of Machinery and Energy Equipment every day, and we're in charge of energy right now. A colleague of the previous speaker made some very serious shortcuts. First of all, Sir Senator, England as such no longer produces energy, they buy energy from the French mostly... [[Who?]] England. You were talking about shutting down a mine in England. For a long time, they haven't produced energy at home. They've been buying it from the French. Secondly, since we are talking about the cost of Polish coal energy, it must be said that the whole Polish energy industry, and this will not be a simplification, is based on coal. So if we made a decision to give up coal, we'd have to give up our own energy. Of course, the cost of this project is easy to predict. The costs that are today, if we buy gas from abroad with our own fuel, are competitive costs. If you give up your own fuel and you know it abroad, you'll pay more for it. Just like that, day by day. As long as we had our sugar factories, Polish, in Opole region, the sugar cost PLN 1.20 at the time of selling the sugar Südzucker Poland The price has increased by 120% in 2 weeks. [[Let's get back to the mermaid!]] And so... [[Let's go back to the mermaid!]] Wait a minute. I didn't disturb the senator. I'm asking you kindly to listen. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If we are talking about the fact that Polish mines are not as profitable as mines in the East, then look in security statistics, then you will see that about 30 people are killed in Polish mines every year. These are different cases, but very often they have nothing to do with direct extraction. It's just that there's heavy equipment and accidents happen and they happen. If you look at the statistics of countries that do not have the security of coal extraction at the same level as the expensive Polish security system... 200 victims in one case in Donetsk, when there were no war activities yet. Turkey Last year, 150 victims in one case. And why this... [[China.]] And why this... China has several thousand victims a year. Do you know why? Because Poland has set the level of safety very high. It's because there's not a day in the mine that safety inspectors don't walk on the sidewalks. These are the costs. These are costs you can't miss if you want to ensure safe extraction. And we provide that. When there was no flue gas desulfurization system in power plants a few years ago, this energy was much cheaper. Here's what I'm going to tell you: one wet gas desulfurization system, one reactor, e.g. There are four reactors in the Kozienice power plant. It's eight pumps... One pump is 1 million 600 thousand. One original impeller for the Uhrmann pump costs 640,000. If you can multiply, add, count. This is an installation that was completely redundant a dozen years ago, because there was no such thing as flue gas desulfurization. We bear this cost and this cost causes that the price of energy is not different. You can, of course, stop it, you can start buying energy, just, you know, from who? In fact, the only alternative that was wasted is nuclear energy. Besides, this is the only renewable energy that can be said to be renewable. Very often we use the term renewable energy, talking about energy from biomass combustion, etc. In fact, nothing is being renewed there, it is directly lost and ground... This has nothing to do with renewal. The only possible renewable energy is nuclear energy. But Poland did not take up this challenge for social reasons. It's just been said all the time that maybe... The company has even invoked itself in the last government, and the salary is already paid to those who possibly have something, etc. I'm not going in because that's not the point. These are pretty complicated issues, incoherent... If we have all the energy on coal And it's basically like this. This closure of access to own coal is clear from the exclusion from the energy market. This can be done provided that a nuclear power plant is built in the meantime. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Probie, for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u128	Second and last. Excuse me, but I need at least some information that you gave Senator Rulewski to correct. Well, it's not what you say. The number of mistakes that have been made here is too high. Maybe I'll give you a little book or an article or something, you might want to study on it. As for Wałbrzych, because you also mentioned Wałbrzych... I invite you to visit the families of those miners who fedrite in the so-called. poor bastards. Come on, it's a very interesting reading, the heart gets countries. Yeah, that hole could have lived to see its days until the resources were exhausted. A different decision was made. There's still information here that Britain doesn't produce energy, that it brings it back. That's the truth. But let me tell you more: Britain can afford to give up coal because it has other resources, oil and gas. We've got about a third of our needs. Approximately 5 billion m3 per year. And one might wonder why we were not invested in our production capacity for oil and gas. Oil was found a little by the way, but money was allocated to imports of media from the outside. And with this import, it's different: once it is, once it's gone, the weather's not like that, it's this gentleman's decision or another. The valve will be bolted. So that I pay very much attention to these issues. And one more piece of information I'd like to give you freshly. Minister Szyszko, when he returned from the Paris climate conference, spoke about emissions trading or CO2 emissions that England solved the case in such a way that it no longer produces cement. The cement used in England is imported from Pakistan. And this is an environmental improvement: CO2 emissions are in Pakistan and England is okay. By the way, England emits much more CO2 than... We're being seen... Some environments represent Poland as a so-called dirty country, with a high value of carbon dioxide emissions, because the European Union has only set itself on 1 problem, 1 issue: CO2. And only about this... the Paris climate convention was more balanced, you could even say: ecological, because other problems have also been raised, including the question of forests. We do emit CO2, but about 3.5 times less than Germany, the largest CO2 issuer. And we are seen as a country that uses so-called dirty technologies. So that I would advise you to take this issue into account in your comments. By the way, I'm gonna drop... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u129	Thank you very much. And for the second time, Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm basically referring to Senator Rulewski's statement. There's no way I wouldn't have said anything. Of course, I thank Senator Pekkis very much for having touched on these important safety issues. Indeed, what a fellow senator has put here is very important and is the essence of what we do. Believe me, Senator, I don't want to... And we're certainly not going back to the era of steam truck mining. The fact that there is an interesting period before mining, that there is a future before mining and that this sector can be stable, is true and that is undoubtedly true. I also gave an example that, less than twenty years ago, the operating system was based on a very fragmented production, extraction and processing structure. Today it's a completely different model. In a very automated way... Imagine that in such a wall ancestor the operation is often carried out by a very modern combine controlled by radio, computer, with a forecast of proper influence, with all technological aspects of the outlet, etc., etc. So believe me, mining isn't in the era of some old steam truck. Absolutely not. And I would like to say one more thing, as the senator has touched on the import issue. Well, three, four years ago, just under the rule of the Civic Platform, I myself participated in a programme of so-called preferential allocations. It was the introduction into the Polish legal space of an instrument which would effectively reduce imports, firstly, of coal from outside the European Union, and secondly, of such coal, which is unexplored, harmful and, in short, very bad species. And then the government of the Civic Platform, having at its disposal a document, developed with the participation of the Mining Chamber of Commerce in Katowice, with the participation of many experts International experts, I would like to point out He didn't use it. And this document already allowed us to reduce imports of raw materials that are harmful to us and which are later mixed with our coal. And then it's said that our coal is bad species. So that, Mr. Senator, sometimes it's worth to get to the source documents, as well as to consider what I said: mining took on the burden of inflation. Because the costs have been transferred directly to mining, remember that. With inflation, everyone fought, but the biggest burden on themselves, unfortunately, is true. The mining industry took over. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. Now Mr. Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm from Szczecin. I'm a doctor. I'm listening to a lot of very professional speeches here, and I wouldn't dare say anything, but I'll get back to you. Well, my close family named Grodzcy lived in Silesia all her life, my cousins live in Silesia, both my uncle and my aunt spent their whole life there, healing, among others. emphysema commonly affecting miners working downstairs. As for the problems that the Minister spoke so beautifully about, they will not be solved by touching the magic wand, but by hard work, by reason and by the Polish reason of the state, which does not mean that we are not to see how it is done in the world. We must give up all emotions here and take care of honest work, because we, as the Higher House of Parliament, have a special responsibility for the branch of the economy which had its period of flourishing, had periods full of problems, but is still the foundation of the Polish economy. And that's what we all have to do. I have a question. I'm sorry to ask, this might sound ignorant. Senator Pekkis, because I thought wind and solar energy were renewable energy, too, and you said it was just nuclear energy. I'd like to ask you that. Otherwise, I personally support the construction of a nuclear power plant, like a fellow senator, but I do not know whether it is the official position of the club state or just a personal opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. This is the second time you'll be speaking, Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think this is one of the most useful evenings that I have spent in this House in my previous term of office and in my beginning, present. I'm addressing Senator Rulewski. I would like to ask you and all of you, before we have the proper knowledge of the situation of these famous slates that have taken us down powerfully, not to promote it. It takes an hour to explain it. Once at the club. I offered this lecture, which I presented, about the situation of slates in our territory. It's something that scared me. For a long time, it was impossible to reach anyone with news that slate in our territory meant something completely different than slate in the North American continent. Gas in these shales is probably 1/12, 1/18 of it, in addition at a high depth. All of this together creates such conditions that it is simply better not to talk about it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u135	Thank you very much. Senator Pekkis for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u136	Shortly, in one sentence. Mr. Senator, this science is different from that of the publicist, that it uses the wording of pure technologies, not renewable. As far as renewables are concerned, it looks like once you use wind energy to transfer it to shovels, the power of the winding will be transferred to shovels, then you no longer have that wind, its energy has been transferred. Hope that after the solar grabs the sun, they will continue to be on the other side of the solar... You're standing there in the shadows, they're not there. There is such a feeling that because the sun shines all the time, it is eternal. But believe me, in order to create a solar or photovoltaic cell that receives energy, you have to use a very large amount of terribly uncool relationships. In other words, you have to take into account that one day there will be exhaustion of the cell and that you have to surrender it... [[...removal.]] Yeah, you have to give up what you used to make that link. People don't usually want to take that into account. They think we have this link, we expose it to the sun, and we take energy. No, it's not. Because in order to neutralize this link, it's really dangerous, toxic compounds you have to bring into this environment. It's called pure energy, and it's renewable in the scientific sense... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u137	Thank you. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We'll probably be discussing for a few more hours, because it's a very extensive topic, but we're about to have Christmas, and you're showing this vision here, how nice it's going to be, how good it's going to be, how we can deal with this energy, how bad it's been so far and how you're going to change everything now. I, of course, listen to what you are saying, and in 2, 3 years I will certainly stand again on this stand and I will tell you a few words about it, because there are no ideal solutions, there are no super solutions when it comes to energy. As far as these renewable sources are concerned... Well, I don't know, but I've been learning my whole life, too. The only thing that kids know about renewable sources is that it's energy, it's wind, it's water, and it's also the sun. These are renewables. We can interpret it in different ways. We're supposed to get some percentage, 25% according to the rules. that renewable energy in the country, but that's not enough. The question remains: what is the strategy at the moment, because the government has changed, for the coming years; how much we will produce from hard coal, how much from brown coal, because we will not go away from it, we will produce from it and from it coal; and how much we will have renewable energy, because there will certainly be a percentage there. And now the question is: how do we solve these problems? Concerning brown coal, there was a discussion here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious problem because it will not be easy to acquire new areas for the construction of brown coal discoveries. There are protests all over the place right now, there's trouble all over the place, there's buildings all over the place. Well, that's a lot of compensation when it comes to buying real estate. I'm a wealth valuer myself and thousands of real estate valuations. I did, also for the mine. And I know what it's gonna be like. It won't be easy. It will be very difficult to open new discoveries of brown coal. As far as coal is concerned, we know what it looks like today, what the situation is and what the market situation is. Of course, we must take care of our coal. We know it's the cost. Sometimes it is worth to bear higher costs, but protect your market and produce this energy, even if it is more expensive. For we also need to look at what it looks like when it comes to energy security. That's what a strategy is for. And that's why my question is certainly not for today, but it would be good for us to find out what the government has for the coming years in terms of energy. I understand that the previous government strategy is already out of date, because every government that comes is mostly criticizing its predecessor. So I'd like to know what the government's strategy is for the coming years and how it's gonna be solved. But let me stress once again that these are not easy problems. These are problems to solve, which concern both workers and employers. There is a question of competition on the market and a question of price. Of course, you can keep the price at a certain, equal level, but let's also see that there is a free market that you can interfere with our economy, but without exaggeration. Therefore, all this needs to be taken into account. And it's certainly not an easy problem to solve. We're gonna have to deal with this. But I wouldn't be such a hurricane believer that all the problems in the brown coal mines will be solved and that what's been going on so far will be solved quickly. We'll see. I, of course, wish all the miners success, and because Christmas is coming, so that they can have a quiet holiday. The fact that we care about security is right. 'Cause you gotta admit, it's important. It's expensive, too, and we'll agree on that, too. But we have to balance it out, and the price has to be appropriate to the other competition that it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u139	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rulewski, go twice. [[Don't say heresy...]] [[The railroadman will say...]] [[I'm about to sign up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that the discussion about mining, about energy, about miners is worth a double vote, because Poland Not only Poland, but in Europe, these countries are already few, but they are surprised by the various speeches, regrets, pains that miners are causing, due to the blockage of wages, which is due to the closure of mines... This isn't just about the miners, because the whole Silesia, you can say, that's my impression. He's pretty messed up. And it doesn't appear, at least from an external view, that it's a hole, where the wealth is created, which we're talking about here. This is not a cavity that would be shown as what is known for its luxury, its abundance, its possessions, its clean air. Senator Pekkis has also betrayed a certain inconsistency here. Because you were talking about desulfurizing pumps in the Kozienice mine, but you didn't say... [[At the power plant...]] Please? [[It was a power plant in Kozienice.]] Oh, at the plant in Kozienice, yeah, there's no sugar, sorry. But you didn't mention that it would take more than money to hollow out the shaft, because it would take a long time, and it doesn't know how it's going to end, especially in the case of a shaft with a dimension of 1.20 m or 1.80 m. And Poland must not give up the opportunities offered by the energy market in the world, it must not give up the opportunity of overproduction or surplus gas, water energy And that's what the Civic Platform government did... [[Weak.]] ...or pure energy that flows from Sweden through Lithuania all the way to Poland. He can't give it up. It is also impossible to give up on the search for slate. Maybe it's wrong that we didn't arm ourselves with better tools and that And here I would agree with Senator Ryszka, we have actually allowed a monopolist in the field of shale, the Americans, that we did not create an alternative here, because it is not quite said that these shales are not in Poland, we know this only from the American mouth. I also want to say that the costs are huge and they hit, like a rake, at the miners themselves, because for them, one step on the ancestor means blocking for life. By what? Well, first, by profession; second, by experience; and third, by benefits that miners are in different ways Fair or unfairly allocated. And it's like a snowball all the time. Besides, governments have also been practicing this because, for example, they did not agree to training new miners first, because, as you know, the demand was smaller; but then it turned out that schools had to be opened; and when schools were opened, the miners came again; and as there are miners, they must have jobs; and when it came to jobs, mining was intensively developed... And so the snowball was gaining momentum. That's why I think we're really sharing our concerns here, but we don't really know what to do. We're just pushing it off for a year, for two, the problem, we're pulling it off, but we're not saying... [[But what's the cure for that?]] This is what Senator Augustine said: we do not engage in a public debate about what to do, what to look forward to mining, Silesia and Polish energy. [[Close the mines?]] In the end, I just want to correct it. I continue to argue that inflation, as if the fight against inflation had mainly affected, Mr. Senator Gawada, in mining. [[Close the mines.]] No. [[That's it. Freeze...]] If there's already an industry dispute, it's in agriculture... [[Talking in the O.R.]] First, the farmers were the most, the prices And you're right. They didn't grow because the unemployed wouldn't have anything to buy for. But today it's agriculture. Inverse to Mining It's our gold mine because the problems have just been overcome... [[Mr. Senator, I remind you...]] ...not only technical, social, but also economic. [[Jasia, what are you so nervous about?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grodzki for the second time, so only five minutes, I remind you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I refer again to my esteemed colleague Pekkis, because I am taught in medicine the principles of evidence-based medicine, i.e. medicine based on facts. The Act defines renewable energy sources as sources using wind energy, solar, geothermal radiation, waves, currents and marine influences, falling rivers and energy derived from biomass, landfill biogas as well as biogas from waste water discharge or treatment processes or distribution of stored plant and animal remains. Moreover, the International Energy Agency does not include nuclear energy as renewable sources. Let's be precise. I will mention just one more thing during the discussion about mining, that there is a law in force in Poland, which states that by 2020 15% our energy needs should be delivered from renewable energy sources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u143	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u144	I need to buckle up because it's serious. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! I am very attentive to this debate. Dear Lords, we forget one problem, a human problem, a miner's problem. Buddy Jasi, as a starving solidarityist from Bydgoszcz, where these Esbets and communists roamed the pavement, remember one thing, that there was a time in Silesia that people were being drawn from all parts of Poland to have someone to feed. [[No, we won't.]] After all, Dear Lords, there is no obstacle to those heroes who are so sorry for the miners. Places are free, just drive and drive, not envy them. I don't know if anybody saw a miner leaving after the big shot. Let him go to that bath and see how he's loaded with this carbon dust, what his body looks like. Then, ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss. I'm terrified to hear what's being said here, Jack, even those steam cars. Your grandkids and grandkids will want to ride retro trains and coal must be. After all, such attractions are in England, Switzerland, Austria. Mine or your grandkids are crawling together to see a car ride and smoke. Of course it won't cure mining, but I remind you all... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Can you guys listen to this? Jan, you were a senator in that term when it was a very big debate about the price of coal. So? Have you forgotten, My Buddy, Friend of Solidarity, how many miners pay taxes from this podium? 90 PLN for each tonne of coal. And I told you that when the Czechs bought Silesia, there were no taxes at first. And in Australia, I set an example for Australia. To a tonne of coal this is between 35 PLN and 45 PLN. Dear Member States, I would like to say this: praise to the Minister for Environmental Protection, Professor Jan Szyszka, that in Paris he negotiated specific privileges for Poland on the issue of carbon dioxide. Let me tell you more, Dear Lords: the miner really needs to be respected. These people aren't to blame for letting people in... I know that some people would like to close the mines and send the miners to the pavement. For Silesia to rise, Korfanta rose and fought again for Polishness in Silesia... Gentlemen, really, without emotion... what Senator Rulewski said... Ladies and gentlemen, coal will still last 70 years, at least 70 years. You have to think about other sources of energy, but really don't have that kind of emotion. I hear these miners wiping their faces out on the street... And what would they, poor people, do when they were deceived by POs and PSLs? They've been signed, they've been told you'll have America! The presidential election was coming up, and they said, "You're gonna have America, you're gonna have America, you're gonna have America!" Turns out Mr. Piotr Duda or Mr. Kotlarz or other union gentlemen... They say this: nothing is realized. Let's hit our chests. Let's hit... Sure, Jack, you're right about steam cars not driving. The electric train is on its way to Gdansk. But somebody's got to create that energy. [[Right.]] I'm not some big specialist, and I'm appealing for these mining workers to be treated as an entity, not as a thing. 'Cause everyone's arguing, but nobody's talking, Dear Lords, about that miner down there. That miner downstairs... That's it. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. We talk during Christmas, and we should respect each other, respect these miners and railwaymen. And I'm barely leaving, and I'm getting some irony about the railroad. And if it wasn't for the railroadman, then... Let me tell you this: if someone forgot about the story, then... Janek, I'll tell you that I'm proud to be a railroadman. The first was not Westerplatte, and the first was Szymankowo, where the railroads blew up an armored train. Railroads and customsmen were killed. Little of this, fellow Janek, was not the first Gdansk, and there was the first Świdnik, and then there was Lublin, where the railroads welded an electric car, did not let the whole warehouse with hams and other things go to Moscow. Let us not forget that it was the railroads in Wroclaw who starved, stood up and said no. And let's finish with that nice accent. I'm proud to be a railroadman. I'm proud of the railroads. Janek, I'm gonna tell you more because I can tell you this: and who quickly moved a little cavalry to Marshal Piłsudski? Who's first? Railroadmen. And the miners fed this coal to get these steam cars to carry this light cavalry. Thank you and goodbye. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[In the winter of the century, only steam cars were able to cope.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. It's hard to believe, but I'm informing you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Drivers of Vehicles. The text of the Act is contained in print No 48 and the report of the Commission In print No 48 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Infrastructure today discussed a law on amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. The discussion was triggered by a government project, and it was created to implement European Union law. Well, we have not implemented two provisions of the Council and European Parliament Directive of 2006 and we have been called upon to improve this. There are 2 entries: one that would eliminate the possibility of obtaining a category driving licence And at the age of 18 by the fire department officers, and the second to complete the definition of the applicant's residence. The government project envisaged these changes, and it was further supplemented by an amendment on the latter. The Commission has discussed these issues today, adopted the proposal unanimously and asks the High House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u147	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure and Construction was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction Jerzy Szmit: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister Szmit.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the law was presented to and examined by the Committee on Infrastructure. As the rapporteur mentioned, the issue concerns two points. They didn't cause controversy during the Seyms' work. This is about the need to implement regulations... This is not yet implemented by Poland, and in principle incorrect, according to the European Commission, the implementation by Poland of the provisions of Directive 2006/126 EC of the Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006. Since these are provisions that do not make great changes in the Polish legal system or in the practice of functioning, I propose that the law be passed without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the room: There are no volunteers.]] There's no report. I therefore inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 49 and the report of the Commission In print No 49 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, a report on today's meeting during which the committee examined the law on amending the law on government departments and certain other laws. This law was passed by the Sejm and is the result of the parliamentary submission. This law has three objectives. The first is to organise the competence of the Minister responsible for IT by redefining the IT division. The second is to adapt the provisions to the amendments introduced by the Law of 19 November 2015 amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and certain other laws. The third objective of this amendment is to transfer the competence of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to the Minister responsible for Information Technology. In the first case, it is a matter of ordering the government administration's IT system and ordering the competence of the Minister responsible for IT. At this point, it is clear that the question of personal data is attributed to the Minister responsible for IT. In turn from the department of internal affairs e.g. matters relating to the PESEL-type state registers, the Register of Personal Evidence, the Register of Civil Status, the Central Registration of issued and cancelled Passport Documents and vehicle records and driver records shall be transferred to the "information" section. As far as the second objective is concerned, the amendments required provisions that point to the Minister responsible for communications and relate to telecommunications matters. Telecommunications has so far been associated with the Ministry of Infrastructure, and now it will be in the Department associated with the Ministry of Digitalization. Post surveillance remains unchanged at the Ministry of Infrastructure. The third objective is to carry out the transfer of tasks to the competent Home Affairs Minister, i.e. the administration of registers, because this is the main part of these tasks, to the Ministry responsible for IT, i.e. to the Ministry of Digitalization. But decisions, supervision of voivodships remain the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. As far as the committee is concerned, the committee has not taken the stand. During the vote in favour of the bill without amendments, there were five votes in favour and five votes against. Voting on the amendments which were tabled at this meeting by Senator Rotnicka and the 4 amendments by Senator Sługocki Nor was it settled: there were five votes in favour, five votes against. I therefore present to the honourable Senate the position which the committee has taken and ask that the High Senate resolve the issue of this law. As for the ministers who presented this bill at the committee meeting, they were in favour of adopting it without amendment. However, the committee's position was as I put it. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u151	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? Senator Florek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u152	A man learns all the time. Because so far I thought that the most important is good legislation, good law, but as it turns out, everything can be adjusted to the deadlines, until 1 January 2016, vacathio legis can be shortened, the president can sign the bill. Well, that kind of procedure, of course, with regard to the work of the committee, can only indicate that the committee does not complete its task. We received this proposal today at 2.30 p.m. at the committee meeting, because this bill was passed today by the Sejm. At 2:30 p.m., we get the project, and we need to get to know it. There are changes to the 38 laws of the Parliament, as it was said, and we are therefore under pressure of time. The position of the Ministry is that 1 January is a very important date for various reasons, e.g. budget, for the implementation of this law. On the other hand, we know that there are some errors in this bill. After about 20 minutes of discussion, we managed to catch some mistakes. Well, these are such errors as 2 days from the publication of the act on the notice in writing of the employee, which is happening again due to the pressure of time, because it is a few days until 1 January. How is that possible? During the discussion on this issue, whether it is possible, or whether it is possible to inform the employee within 2 days, how, still depending on when the bill will appear in the Official Journal of the Act, whether it will be Saturday, Sunday... And that, of course, is where the problem arises. That means that the Act enters into force on 1 January 2016, already... Therefore, these conditions are present. Mistakes like... You remember that once the word "tasks" was used, once there were "tasks" instead of "tasks." And these are two different names. Therefore, we know in advance that there are errors. Since we have not been able to vote on the amendments, they were to be tabled now, but we are wondering whether we will be submitting these amendments, because we know that this 1st January, if we report these amendments They're really right. It's not going to be real. He's not real enough anyway, but maybe it'll work. Therefore, the question is whether it is right that, although we know that there are errors in the bill that should be corrected, as senators, we decide that we will vote in favour or we will abstain... Then I guess we're not gonna bother you, and we're gonna withdraw our amendments so that this bill can come into force from January 1. Is this kind of legislation... Besides, the legislator was here. You know very well that you have made comments as well. He said he didn't have time, he didn't know if he had the final text... and it's all happening within a few hours, not even within a few hours, because at 3:30 p.m., I don't know what time the Sejm adopted... So, such a note for the future: this is not the way to proceed, because we also make mistakes. And we will be responsible for these errors, as it turns out, that this law is indeed burdened with many errors. And there is no doubt that they are. So my question, rapporteur, is this: is this the procedure we have adopted... [[Senator.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator... Is this way of proceding appropriate, or should we in the future proceed differently?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u153	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u154	I think the senator's got a point here. I, too, hope that some further topics will be considered in the long term, that there will be a longer period of time for proceding and reception. There is no doubt that, in this case, in connection with the changes that have been made as regards the government administration and the new ministries that have been created... I think that we, for our part, have looked a little through our fingers here to make this minister or these ministers. This is a question of 3 ministries to allow the start of work on 1 January 2016.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u155	Thank you. Senator Grodzki is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I share Senator Flork's opinion because life has taught us... Recently, the Senate was polite to adopt this criminal act of 70%. tax for outgoing company presidents. We explained that she ricochets in a lot of normal earners. And now this bill is coming back to the Sejm for amendments. I'm afraid this bill will be the same if we proceed in this mode. Especially since I open an iPad and print, or rather a link that is to every law, and here in the case of this law are the famous numbers or the famous number 404. And I just can't read it. Even right now, Madam Secretary is trying to make things right. The question is, at the committee meeting, This question to the rapporteur was raised that it might be worth slowing down the work and doing It's good not to correct it in two weeks.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u157	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u158	At the committee meeting, it was mentioned that this procedure is in the form it is in. But on the other hand, as I said, there was a request from the Ministry's representatives to accept it. And I personally referred to this 404, which was in the Seym... So it can be said that practically this law was adopted unanimously. [[Excuse me, but this 404 shows up on the Internet, which means]] [[Senator, the administration informs me that this bill is suspended online.]] (No, she was, I was on the Internet...) [[She wasn't?]] [[She was.]] She was. (During the vote I read this result on the Internet on the Sejm website.) Good. There you go, Senator Florek. No, no, no, no, [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would you like to speak? [[I just want to show you...]] [[This is the Senate of the Republic of Poland.]] [[Voice from the room: Maybe from the Internet.]] [[Mr. Marshal, that's the kind of thing that shows up. I couldn't get acquainted...]] That's a nice number. [[The file wasn't found.]] [[Voice from the room: On the Internet there is.]] (I had the whole...) [[Yes?]] (Yes.) The administration repeats that this is suspended on the website. Of course, there's a mistake here... [[Voice from the room: This is...]] Thank you. Are there any more questions for the Senator rapporteur? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] No questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Would a representative of the government, Mr Szymon Ruman of the Ministry of Digitalization, like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Szymon Ruman: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a brief reference to those voices that have been taken care of. Today we worked on this bill on the committee. The bill is indeed a parliamentary project. There is no government position for this, because it was not the subject of the work of the Council of Ministers, but of course the ministries concerned, i.e. the Ministry of Digitisation and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, took an active part in the work on this project in the Sejm. We have tabled a number of comments and amendments to this proposal. The Legislative Office of the Sejm also reported a large package of amendments, which harmonised this project with other laws, among others. with the bill, which was also dealt with in the Senate, which postponed the date of entry into force of the new CEPiK, i.e. the amendment of the road traffic law. The mode of work on the amendment in the Sejm was normal, there was no urgent or accelerated procedure, we worked on this law calmly, we analyzed it, we paid attention, both by the government and by the Sejm legislators. Today, amendments appeared at the Senate Committee meeting, but they were purely legislative or editorial. These amendments have not been evaluated by the committee, the committee has not taken a position on them. I can only say from the government, presenting the position of the Minister of Digitization, that this bill is very important to us, important for it to enter into force on 1 January, for obvious reasons. The point is that the law makes major transfers between the ministries of home affairs and digitisation, also in the budget, and should therefore enter into force at the beginning of the financial year. I would very much ask the senators, including those who took part in the committee's meeting, when we agreed that these amendments were really editorial in nature, seeking, say, legislative excellence, but do not change the substantive provisions of the Act, not to apply them, because it would prevent us from adopting this law or the President from signing it in such a time as to be announced and enter into force on 1 January. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u160	Thank you, Minister, but just a little while longer, 'cause maybe there'll be some questions for you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Szymon Ruman: Good.]] At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. In addition to your Undersecretary Ruman of the Ministry of Digitization, we have the Undersecretary of State from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr. Tomasz Zdzikot, to whom questions can be addressed. Are there any questions for the ministers? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization Szymon Ruman: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Waldemar Sługocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Spider, for his extremely honest attitude. That's noticeable, Mr. Senator. I hereby emphasise that. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to a number of facts relevant from the point of view of the contested law, a law amending the law on administrative departments. I understand, of course, the reasons that lead the applicants, a group of Members. Members, I presume, on behalf of the government, are attempting to proceed with the bill so that it enters into force on 1 January so that the government can make appropriate changes at the beginning of the calendar year. It's understandable, of course. However, it may be surprising why a law so important from the point of view of the central administration structure, from the point of view of the government, changing the structure as regards departments, which de facto alters the substantive scope of individual departments, is being conducted by a group of Members, and is not proceded by the central administration. Of course, I am aware of the conduct of both modes, but it seems justified that in the case of such a serious challenge as the one facing the government, before the Polish administration, one can count on reference to the law discussed here also by expert communities. So that we can further assess the proposed law and the amendments made to it, and so that we can do so without undue haste, so that we can examine all of this in depth, some rational reflection. Unfortunately, due to the fact that the bill went to the committee meeting just before it started, all of this was absolutely impossible. This may raise our doubts, especially that, if we take into account the dual-use capacity of the parliament in Poland, the senators should have at least a week to refer to the contested law, so that they can analyse the changes, evaluate them and get information from the representatives of the departments concerned. Unfortunately, this was not possible, we could not analyze the material earlier. Each of us first got to know him while working on the committee. I would put such a question to all of us, also to myself: is it a priority to adopt the Act and its entry into force on 1 January, but should it be a priority to make a law that will not cause problems to governments or those who will have to function in the system of the laws in question? I have a few questions relating to the procession concerning issues which have not been raised either in the discussions at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration or in today's debate of the High House. Ministers, my questions relate to the implementation of cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 perspective. I don't know. Please answer me. I'll be very grateful for your answer. In the context of the implementation of cohesion policy from an institutional point of view, or in the context of the operational programmes implemented by me in the time horizon, or by any of you by introducing the amendments to the Law on Chapters discussed here, he considered this matter and analysed it in the context of the implementation of cohesion policy from an institutional point of view. The Commission therefore As I'm sure, I hope most know, and perhaps all know, the financial perspective of 2014.2020 is implemented through national programmes and regional programmes. In this particular case, we can certainly say two operational programmes. The operational programme of the Polish digital programme, which will be implemented by the Minister responsible for digitalisation, but also some of the priorities and components of the Operational Programme of the Knowledge, education, development, financed by the European Social Fund, implemented by the Minister responsible for administration and home affairs. I have a question for both ministers as to whether, by doing this change in the Law on Departments, you carried it out so as not to violate the institutions involved in the implementation of cohesion policy, because this institutional arrangement, especially as regards institutions involved in financial flows, has undergone a process of so-called designation, a kind of accreditation. Any change that violates this system of movement of European funds would force the Polish side to repeat this process. It is a tedious, complex process and, most importantly, it is an extremely long-term process. Possible negative consequences would result in Poland having to redefine this system, which would result in delays in the process of launching individual priorities and actions, and thus delaying the publication of individual competitions or the implementation of individual projects. As we know, in this perspective, the "Digital Poland" Operational Programme was created because of the big needs and challenges facing public administration, including naturally government, in order to improve this process. And my key question is, did you, by making changes to the law on departments, consider this topic? I would like to say, in relation to the words of Mr... sorry, Senator rapporteur, that we will not repeat the amendments that we tabled during the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and Public Administration in order to behave responsibly. But I will also appeal to the senator's words. I hope that further laws will be dealt with in such a way as not to put time pressure on senators, which prevents us from analyzing and addressing these acts in a responsible manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u162	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanislaw Rooster.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of Ministers! Dear guests! I wasn't supposed to speak, but my previous speaker made me do it. I know you haven't been a senator for the last eight years, but in your previous terms, the things you're criticizing as an opposition have also happened. And I'll tell you more: he wasn't violated by Senate regulations. There is an article in the Senate's Rules of Procedure which allows this possibility, if the committee permits such a path, and although the deadline is not respected, such action may be taken. And now you hear it: one at a time. I understand the opposition because I've been in opposition for eight years. Screaming, whining, no telling what, like this government is breaking democracy, breaking all the laws. That's it, Mr and Mrs Dear. These things happened not only for eight years, but in an earlier term of office. I'm a senator for the fourth term. That's what happened. I was really not going to speak, but, Dear Lords, it is necessary to say in some matters that yes is yes, and that is not not true. And the Senate's Rules of Procedure have not been violated before, nor has it been broken now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u164	Are you signing up for the vote? [[Yes, sir.]] There you go, Senator Sługocki speaking again.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, as you have noticed, I was far from wailing, far from complaining. In my view, I have made a great deal of understanding of the necessity of such a procedure, not of any other procedure related to the need to change the organisational structure of the government as a result of the recent elections. I only took the liberty of making a request for further legislation to be examined at a slightly different pace. And that's it, or that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u166	Thank you, Senator. Then I'll speak in the middle of a discussion, too, because Senator Rooster has provoked me to do so. Senator, there were different situations, but there was at least one day of difference between the coming of the Sejm Act and our proceeding in the Senate. It wasn't an hour, it wasn't an hour, it was just... [[They were waiting.]] Yes. Now it's down to an hour. And to your senators, I have also noticed as a senator that if the bill requires amendments, then amendments must be tabled... [[Report, sir.]] ...to make it better. This concludes the discussion because the list of speakers has been exhausted. Since there were questions from Senator Sługocki, I must say that a government representative answered questions about whether he could answer questions earlier before the discussion, and now he could only come forward if there were proposals of a legislative nature. But if one of the ministers wants to answer these questions so that they're not rhetorical, then please kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u167	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I'd be happy to answer your questions. Thank you very much for the understanding you have shown. Because I agree that, under normal conditions, when we're not being chased by the end of the financial year, we should proceed with laws such as this with appropriate regulatory terms. But now the situation is special. The government was founded in mid-November, and the year ends actually tomorrow or the day after, because it's Christmas, so we know what the conditions are. As for the senator's question, we have, of course, analysed this issue. No institutions or parts of this ministry or tasks related to Union funds are transferred from the MMA to the Ministry of Digitalisation. As far as the Ministry of Digitalization is concerned, the Minister of Digitalization is an intermediary institution, together with his subordinate unit, the Project Centre Of course, this condition remains unchanged. The Managing Authority, which is kind of above us in this structure, is the Minister of Development. Both ministries, and the Ministry of Digitalisation, and the Ministry of the Interior, can, like all other public administrations in Axis 2.1, submit their projects for funding from this programme in a new budgetary perspective. And, of course, with regard to state registers... They are currently being held with budgetary resources, as well as the Citizen Portal and those ingredients that come to us are currently being held with budgetary resources. But if there is a need to submit an application for EU funding for the development of the register, then this is the possibility and here the Minister for Digitisation will be the appropriate minister. I think I've exhausted the subject. I think I've answered the senator's question. If there are no more questions, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u168	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u169	The meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the review of the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources will take place tomorrow at 8.45 am in room 176. [[It's not 8:00, it's 8:45, right?]] Yeah, 8:45. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of the Act on the Integrated Qualifications System and the Act on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union will take place tomorrow at 8.00 in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of the proposals submitted at the sixth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws will take place tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in room 179. The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on the review of the Law amending the Constitutional Tribunal will take place tomorrow at 8.00 in room 217. The joint meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the review of the Law amending the Act on the amendment of the Act on Income Tax on Individuals will take place tomorrow at 8.15 am in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-22-senat-06-1.u170	Thank you. I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow, December 23rd, until 11:00 p.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 21 minutes 02]]
