ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Please take your seats so that we can begin today's sitting. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Agata Borowiec and Elżbieta Borowska. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Agata Borowiec. I see the secretary is here, and I ask the secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u2	I would like to inform you that the European Union's Committee on Affairs will meet today at 3 p.m. 11. Message of the team meeting. The Parliamentary Group for Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism will be held today at an hour. 9.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u3	Mr Krzysztof Brejza on the formal issue of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a five-minute break, to convene the Sejm Bureau and to clarify the following. It was such a good custom in the previous terms of the Sejm, but also during the first sitting, that the transmission from Parliament's meeting was posted to the Sejm's website by Mediatheka. Unfortunately, the voters have been calling me, and they've been calling me since this morning, interested in the course of last night's very turbulent and outrageous sitting, indicating that this record on the part of the Sejm has disappeared. That is why I am addressing your marshals because we had a really turbulent situation, a turbulent discussion about constitutional principles, very important to the state system. Mr Marshal drew attention to some Members, called for order. I'm probably being punished, but I don't know what for. I'd like to find out, too. I ask your marshals to join this proposal and restore this video recording to the Sejm website because we are talking about fundamental matters for this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u5	Thank you. The request to convene the Bureau will be forwarded to the Marshal for a decision. And right now: We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would therefore remind you that the question may not last more than 2 minutes, but the answer may not last longer than 6 minutes. The Member who asked the question has the right to ask an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. Then we'll proceed to... As the first question to be asked, I will ask Members Grzegorz Matusiak and Grzegorz Janik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u6	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent weeks there have been quite a lot of media information about FC Barcelona's sports football school. The school, which operates non-profit, obtained leases on sports infrastructure from Polfa Tarchomin State Treasury company. He already has great sporting and organizational achievements. It turned out that Polfa Tarchomin, a company of the State Treasury, concluded a contract for the lease of sports infrastructure. Therefore, I have a question: Has this problem been solved and what is the future of the Barcelona FC football school? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u7	I would like to ask Mr Witold Bianca, Minister of Sports and Tourism, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u8	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 20 November, following the media reports and the official request which entered the Ministry of Sport and Tourism, I had the opportunity to meet with Mr Wilczyński, the owner of the Escola Varsovia football school. This is the only football school with a Barcelona license in Europe. It is true, Mr Tarchomin, that the football school has been renting the area since 2013 from Polfa Tarchomin State Treasury. I would like to point out that this area, which is leased, is classified as only and exclusively for sports services in the spatial planning plan. In 2013, the school took over this area, which, let's say, was able, gently speaking, to mourn. It invested quite a bit of money in order to bring the entire facility, the whole area to a very high level in terms of sport and organization. There's a lot of money invested there. In recent days, however, Polfa Tarchomin has called in writing the school owner and the school to leave the area. The topic began to function in media circulation and I was asked to meet. We had the opportunity at the Ministry together with the legal team to look at the documents relating to this school. And I wanted to point out that we didn't find any - let's say - irregularities in the functioning of the school, contrary to what the company's representatives say. So that I wanted to point out that it is not true that it was not agreed that the agreement did not agree to the investments that were carried out by the school. We have consulted at the highest government level so as to resolve this issue as soon as possible. Luckily, thanks to Prime Minister Beata Szydło. [[I wish the Prime Minister had intervened yesterday.]] Also thanks to the intervention of Minister Elżbieta Witek and Minister of the Treasury of Mr David Jackiewicz, this case was solved in such a way that Polfa Tarchomin's Treasury company withdrew from this notice and children, children and young people can train in peace. Of course, we will keep this subject up to date so that there are no possible changes in the position. Sports of children and young people in the context of professional sport is a fundamental factor in shaping competitive sport, so that for my part I declare that we do not agree that this school will cease to function. This is also an extremely prestigious issue. There he runs, there he trains over a thousand children, this is a group that is strongly connected to each other. Parents are actively involved in the functioning of this school, in shaping these kids. We also had the opportunity to visit her, to see for ourselves how this school works. I can honestly say that these are, you can say, impressive results, even though the school is only two years old. Sports results follow a high level of organizational and training, because Escola Varsovia also defeated in such a direct competition of sports, football such as Manchester United or Sporting Lisbon, so the school is developing properly. This Spanish thought of training, football is kind of translated into Polish conditions. It should also be noted, which is very important, that despite a short period of functioning we have already seen nine representatives of Poland. Because this also needs to be made clear: although it is a school under the license of Barcelona, although it implements this Spanish training thought, the players operate in Poland and I think that the Polish representation can already benefit from the talents of these young players. So, for my part, I declare to you that I will monitor this subject so that we can be calm when it comes to the future of Escola Varsovia. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u9	I'm ordering a two-minute recess because we need to ask you to come to the State Secretary's Chamber at Mr. Patrick Jake's Ministry of Justice. [[To get him there in time.]] [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: No, what is it?]] [[I recommend the transcripts.]] [[Today's transcripts are gone.]] Two minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 minutes 11 hours 9 min 15]] Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform and the Kukiz Club15 have withdrawn their questions, and we have therefore created a situation that there are not yet people who will answer the next questions, which is why I am managing a 15-minute break. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: No, well, Marshal.]] I can only apologize for the situation. [[Member Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish: It is not your fault, Marshal.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 9 minutes 15 hours 9 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. I think we can begin after the break to continue point 14. We've got a person who'll respond to us from the Ministry of Justice. In this connection, I would ask you to ask the questions of Mr Michał Wójcik and Mr Andrzej Jaworski of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u10	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of Mr Andrzej Jaworski and my own, I have a question about the current state of play of the tasks of the system of electronic supervision of convicted persons. That's the question to the Minister of Justice. It is about carrying out the tasks of the electronic surveillance system after the entry into force of the amendment of the Penal Code Act and some other laws. This took place on 1 July 2015. The existing rules for the enforcement of penalties and criminal measures by electronic supervision of convicted persons have been radically amended. The legislator repealed the existing Law of 7 September 2007 on the execution of the sentence of imprisonment outside a criminal establishment in an electronic surveillance system mainly implemented by the penitentiary courts and, to a very limited extent, maintained its limited application in transitional provisions. According to the current state of law, the main direction of judgment and enforcement has been introduced into the revised codes in the form of a new extended penalty for the restriction of freedom, which, as a matter of fact, is decided by the courts of first instance, where one of the four forms of it is the restriction of freedom in the electronic domain. An additional serious problem is the fact that a radical change in the functioning of a stable and dynamically developing system had to be carried out very quickly, less than in a few months. This situation has resulted in a sharp decline in the number of prisoners who are actively punished. In the last five months, the population receiving the penalty has decreased by around 1.5 thousand. Convicted. In recent years, the declines have been growing more and more. Only in the second week of November was this number dropped by 89 convicts. The question is: How does the Ministry of Justice want to solve this problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u11	Mr Michał Wójcik asked a question on behalf of himself and Mr Andrzej Jaworski and Mr Marek Suski. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Patrick Jaki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Members, Indeed, the Ministry of Justice is now facing the problem of issuing decisions on the electronic surveillance system. How do we want to solve this problem? I mean, we're considering a few options. We have now set up a team at the Ministry of Justice which is considering amending the law in this area. This means that it is true that the current law has caused the amount of penalties imposed in the electronic surveillance system to fall dramatically. And given that we as a Polish state, as the Ministry of Justice, are ready to handle several or even more such penalties - we have a ready infrastructure, we have a company that is quite good at doing this, which has won the tender - it is a huge problem for us, it is also a powerful problem from the point of view of the justice system, because the penalties in the electronic domain, High Izbo, are extremely effective. They're causing us to have more places in prison, which means we're solving a problem that's been unsolved for a long time. At the same time, the execution of such a penalty is significantly cheaper than the penalty that was implemented in a way, let's call it traditional. At the same time, I would like to stress that the electronic surveillance system is the state-of-the-art, non-insulating, efficient and secure system for the enforcement of penalties, criminal and protective measures. The current electronic monitoring of those convicted in Poland is carried out on the basis of the revised provisions of the Penal Code and certain other laws which entered into force on 1 July 2015 - that is the amendment mentioned by the Member in 2015 - under which electronic supervision was established only one of the forms of execution of the sentence of the restriction of liberty, and not, as before, High Izbo, the penalty of imprisonment. In view of the above, the Ministry of Justice - I refer to the Member's question - will soon prepare a draft to address this problem. Nor do we exclude new solutions when we are talking about the scope of normative acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u13	Would Mr Michał Wójcik like to ask an additional question? [[Andrzej Jaworski.]] Excuse me, Mr Jaworski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the effectiveness of the system of electronic surveillance of convicted persons, because this system has been requested by many human rights organisations, many people who have known about it. We didn't understand why the Civic Platform was making changes to the code. I would like to ask: Has this system worked before these changes? What were the disadvantages and advantages of this system? Why did this change take place? As we have just heard in your statement - an amendment that does not seem to have worked.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u15	Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Mr Patrick Jaki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the effectiveness of the electronic surveillance system in previous years, before the amendment of this law, I have just the latest data. I would like to convey to the High House that, thanks to the operation of the electronic surveillance system, in 2009 and 2015, in the detention of investigators and prisons, attention from High Izbo, 23 145 places of accommodation sentenced for residential purposes. Over 23,000. Places. This can be seen as a success on a European scale, High Izbo. The sentenced persons covered by this system in the total population are 48 230 persons until 31 October, that is, until the date when the sentence of imprisonment in the electronic dosore could be imposed, and not, as after the amendment, a penalty for the limitation of liberty in this dosore. In addition, I would like to point out that Poland is the only European country that has built and implemented its own IT communication and monitoring systems that carry out all tasks of electronic monitoring of convicted persons. With regard to the effectiveness of enforcement of the provisions and judgments of the courts in the electronic domain, High Izbo, in the total population of 48 230 convicted so far covered by the system, the effectiveness of the enforcement of judgments is between 90 and 94% of the effectiveness, measured by the number of decisions and penalties repealed by the courts in the electronic supervision system. In relation to the entire population of convicted persons, the courts have repealed more than 4 000 in total. judgments, which accounts for only about 10% population and what is one of the best figures on the European scale. At the same time, it should be stressed that the average monthly cost of the penalty is PLN 331 in this system, while the cost of the penalty in the traditional system is more than 8 times higher. Therefore, if the High House asks about the effectiveness of this system, it is a system which has been absolutely successful, it is a state-of-the-art system of high efficiency that is used in countries that have a very far-reaching and effective policy in this area. Therefore, the Minister of Justice's assessment should go back to the legislative principles that will enable this system to be implemented effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u17	Thank you very much. Another person I will ask for the question is Katarzyna Lubnauer from the Modern Posel Club. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Ms Teresa Wargock. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u18	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The recent announcements by the Minister on changing the age of compulsory education have caused great concern for both teachers and parents, especially parents of younger children. That is why I would like to ask a question mainly about how to organise this transition. First of all, it is now the rule that for all four-year-olds there must be room in community kindergartens. I wanted to know if, after the implementation, after withdrawing 6-year-old preschool children from preschool children, it would continue to be an obligation to provide preschool care for all four-year-olds. Secondly, if during the school year parents can send their first-class child back to kindergarten, where will they come from for such children in these kindergartens? Do we already know how many seats for three-year-olds will run out in big cities if six-year-olds go back to preschool? Next question. Because it is known that only 21% this year Six-year-olds didn't go to the first grade, and I wanted to ask what would happen if there weren't enough kids in the commune to create at least one class I? Will these children be transported to another community throughout their education period, i.e. to the sixth grade? This will involve both commuting and parental discomfort. Next thing. There's talk of a change in kindergarten program base to include reading. Do we have any textbooks for such a program basis, and will the Ministry be able to enter such textbooks by September 1st? What will happen if in one class there are - how to teach them, because there will be few of these classes - probably 6-year-olds and 7-year-olds after age, and 7-year-old children repeating a class that parents can take back to the first grade. How do we imagine working in such a class? Last question, we won't practically have first class next year, because I'm saying, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 1/5 of the children did not go, because of what will happen to the teachers who worked in these schools, and how we will recreate this database of teachers, when they really will not work for the next three years, because when the teacher starts in the first one, he continues to work with this class for three consecutive years.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u19	Thank you very much. An answer on behalf of... [[May I ask... I'll also want a written reply.]] We will ask for your answer, on behalf of the Minister of National Education, the Secretary of State of this Ministry, Mrs Teresa Wargocka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Ministry of National Education, work is underway to prepare a draft law on amending the law on the system of education for the restoration of the school obligation for 6-year-olds. Allow me to present to the High House, also because parents are interested in the subject, the basic assumptions we have made for this project. Compliance with the school obligation of 6-year-olds will be left to parents' decisions. Parents will have a choice whether to send a 6-year-old child to school or leave it in kindergarten. We are introducing a certain restriction so that in the case of a 6-year-old child born between September and December, the parent will join the opinion of the psych-pedagogical counsellor in the first class. I just wanted to point out that this group of kids aren't 6 years old when they're admitted to school, they're practically five years old. In the case of a 6-year-old child or born in the period January - August, the opinion of the clinic will not be required, while the parent will be able to ask the kindergarten teacher, a kindergarten teacher, to diagnose the child's readiness to study. These are the main assumptions. In a moment, I'm going to refer to these very specific points. In fact, the first points concern a large part of kindergartens. I'll say a few sentences in a separate thread. The problem from the second point, i.e. the withdrawal of a child who is in the first class, to a kindergarten or a preschool unit. Ladies and gentlemen, this problem does not concern our regulation, because this provision is already, currently, in the law. By the end of December, parents of 6-year-olds in first-class classes can turn their children back to kindergarten or to zero. Of course, we wait until January. Let's see what the scope of these problems is. We don't have any idea what the number of children is right now. On the other hand, it is kind of a problem that needs to be looked at, tried to solve it, caused by previous changes in the education system law. When it comes to the problem of children who failed to cope in the first class as six years of age, we make a statement that in the case of children who are in these classes and parents will have trouble finding a place in kindergarten or will have to change the circuit of the school in order to take place in the preschool ward at school, we leave the possibility, in fact, we create the possibility that this child may remain in this ward, may be re-written by parents to the first class as a seven year old. Such a statement will be asked to be submitted by the end of March, while making this statement will mean that the child will not be subject to the annual classification. So we generally provide care, we ensure that we are in a group, and as far as the requirements are concerned, which are placed on the basis of the curriculum, here the teacher is releasing the child and this child will not be classified. This is really saving the situation in a way, but we have these signals and we have to come up with a proposal here as well. When there's not a single person in the community. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a very detailed stage of analysis, the Department of Analysis and Forecast in the Ministry is currently preparing us with such simulations as may be the number of first classes in villages and cities. In this respect, we accept three options, different assumptions, because - I wanted to make you aware - it is not that there will be no first class in the following school year. It's a little bit like we're drawing up this situation here. Ninety-one thousand. The parents took advantage of the record that they could postpone their 6-year-old child. [[Member Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska: Only 20% of children.]] Exactly, I mean, it's 29%... [[Thanks to you, she's gone to hell...]] Minister, Minister, I use official data from the Ministry of National Education, which comes from the system, so I will not discuss this. This first year will also include children who will be withdrawn from the first classes by December of this year. We don't know what the number is, we have to wait until January. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This class will include the children I was talking about, re-entering Class I, and finally this group of children whose parents decide they want to send their 6-year-old children to Class I. I wanted to say that in 2011, when she was left completely free, with this promotional action of reducing school age about 19% After examining the situation, parents of their own free will sent their children to school. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have such full clarity about 30 June, so now really there can be simulations on different variants and such simulations are being prepared. Program base, textbooks. May I answer or may I answer the second part, Your Marshal? Because time's up, I don't know how much you're letting me...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u21	I will ask you again if you want to ask an additional question. [[Yes, I will.]] Then maybe you can answer the rest of it also as part of an additional question. Let us therefore allow the Member to ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u22	Maybe I'll ask a question from the jury. First of all, when it comes to this programming basis, I am interested in it both for these six-year-olds, i.e. for the children, as well as for the first classes we have at the moment. It's a software basis, six-year-old textbooks, and they're supposed to teach seven-year-olds. Therefore, the problem is that seven-year-olds will learn from the basics prepared for six-year-olds. There was also a question related to the fact that in various areas of Poland this number of children went to the first classes at the age of six. So there are municipalities where it really is a few percent of children, e.g. 10% That didn't go. And that's the kind of kids I've been asking about. What if there is no class in a given municipality, will the child be transported? That's what my question was. And I also asked about places in kindergartens for 3-year-olds, which I think is very important, because it is important that parents have cared for these youngest children. And it seems these older kids are just gonna push the younger ones out of kindergarten.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u23	So I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u24	Okay, so I understand that you're most interested in these issues. So maybe I'll finish discussing these issues with the school organization. I'm gonna go to kindergarten a little bit. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there will be such situations that there is not even a child in the municipality, i.e. there will be no class I branch. I realize that may be the case, even though they'll show us the analysis. The bigger problem will be if there are two or three children. Here again, I want to assure you that the local authorities will deal with this fact, because we have education in the system and in practice at the level of the I-III class combined, which I do not approve of, moreover, after June, after 30 June we will have an absolutely clear situation, maybe 95%, and then we will try to apply special support in these municipalities. As far as kindergarten is concerned, the analysis is not finished, but, ladies and gentlemen, it also looks different in different places. This preliminary analysis shows that the situation in kindergartens is manageable - about 100,000. free places in kindergartens, of course in different territorial arrangements. Five-year-olds with 111,000. They're in preschool units, ladies and gentlemen, which is what I'm going to say, creating kindergartens, that we've created preschool units, and we're saying we have kindergartens. So, generally schools are, so to speak, already organized for children under these conditions to have preschool education. We're gonna keep our duty, which means we're gonna have a 4-year-old's parent's right to a place in kindergarten. As far as a 3-year-old child is concerned, there has been no such commitment for this year and we need to make a very deep analysis here as to whether we will be able. We will probably try to make sure that parents have the right to choose, the right to decide at what age the child begins with the school obligation, but we also want to ensure that the parent can expect from the local government, from the state that they are for children a place in kindergarten. Yet... There were a lot of questions, one question in the current ten questions. Would you like further details? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u25	Yeah, I didn't get an answer at all about teachers, that is, the issue of restoring them, because if the teacher doesn't get first class now, it's really not gonna get it for the next three years either. The second point, the Minister clearly declared that it was about the behaviour of children in kindergartens, i.e. in a much better atmosphere for them, tamed, etc. You're talking about preschool wards in schools, which wouldn't really be any different from teaching six-year-olds in schools. So I don't understand, there's a contradiction between what the Minister says and what you're announcing.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u26	Madam, you asked for an answer...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll just be brief. Of course, we can now begin the discussion on the basis of what the Minister said, as the Deputy Minister said, but I do not think this is the right place. I invite you to discuss with the Ministry of National Education. [[Okay, thank you, and I'll ask you to answer these questions in writing.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u28	She asked for a written reply, and I therefore think that the details will already be included in this reply. The next question will be asked by Dariusz Piontkowski, who will address this question to the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr Jerzy Szmit. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, information has come to our attention that on the Białystok-Warsaw railway line after the normal operation of trains is to be significantly reduced the number of train pairs that will ensure this communication. PKP Intercity ensured that after the renovation, 11 pairs of trains would be restored, instead only six. Thus, between Białystok and Warsaw will appear e.g. Over a 5-hour break in train running, and the last train from Warsaw is scheduled to depart about an hour. 19. Hence the question: What will the Ministry do to restore normal rail communication between the capital of Podlaskie voivodship and the capital of Poland, the more serious repairs are underway on the road line linking Białystok to Warsaw at the moment? There is also doubt whether this renovation will be completed by 13 December, as information has appeared in recent days that PKP PLK has announced an invitation to tender for the adaptation to 120 km/h of line number 10, section approx. 15 km, and this line is to be used by trains on the Białystok-Warsaw route. Another element that raises great concern: in the last day PKP PLK finally cancelled the tender for documentation of the next episode of Czyżew - Białystok. For more than two years, the tender procedure lasted, on the way the court finally cancelled the tender. Therefore, the dramatic question immediately arises: Will it ever be done, and if so, when is PLK going to announce the tender? When will they really be able to start the work on this line? Will we be done by 2023 in order to benefit from EU funds? It is not entirely clear what is happening to the next section - Czyżew - Sadowne. When is PLK going to announce tenders and when will it really be possible to build this fragment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On this occasion, the question arises, will there also be replacement communication here, will we be able to maintain all rail transport? And the last piece. This fragment is a fragment of the Rail Baltica section. Is the Ministry considering a return to the former course of Rail Baltica, especially from Bialystok, further towards the Lithuanian border? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u30	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with the most important statement. After two years of modernization of the Warsaw - Białystok route, a new timetable has entered into force since 13 December, and with it is restored traffic on the Warsaw - Białystok route, railway traffic. And that's the most important information. Indeed, as Mr Piontkowski said, five pairs of inter-voivodeship trains and one international train will start here. This is due to the fact that all the work has simply not yet been completed. Moreover, this was foreseen in the contract that the mere start of the route, in terms of train traffic, would start in December this year, and this was successful, while in terms of bringing the whole section to full termination and full acceptance of the works, it is planned for the end of next year. Then it will be restored fully normal movement, with full load. Moreover, the fact that no more connections are immediately activated is also due to the lack of rolling stock, which will be gradually completed this year. Dart vehicles will come into operation, so cheaper warehouses that will be able to constantly supplement this timetable. It is important that from 13 March it is planned to extend the transport offer to nine pairs of trains, so communication between Warsaw and Białystok will be much better. The final completion of the work on this main objective of modernising the Rail Baltica line, or actually including it in the European communication corridors in the full standard, is due to take place in 2020, so that this route can already be fully exploited and exploited. On the other hand, as regards the other questions that you have been gracious to ask, we will answer them in writing so that this answer is as precise and unambiguous as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u32	I would like to ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński for an additional question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u33	Thank you very much. Minister! I would ask you very much, Mr Piontkowski and I would like to ask you to take a very careful look at what railway companies and officials in the Ministry represent, because I have the impression that the Minister received the material, so to speak, written in an old style. It's really not exactly what you told us, and it's not yours. wine, of course, only those who prepared this answer. First of all, today, even though there is no train connection, because the tracks were undressed, which was scandalous, there are 12 pairs of connections, counting the bus direct and connected. Nine were announced before the election, and there will be six, i.e. it was the propaganda of the PO-PSL coalition, it was about success before the election, which is not there. And so the date of putting into service this railway section, which was off-road, is already delayed, so we would ask you to consider whether it is possible, however... What you said about this rolling stock is not quite true either, for example. on the Lublin route there is an increase in the number of connections, and here is a decrease. That's not the reason, the officials see it that way, but I don't think that's true. So is it possible to increase since December 13th, since the new distribution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to those nine pairs of calls? And how will you then, from the March decomp, increase to 12, because it should be more or less so? Besides, there was much more than that in previous years. Minister, in writing... I've got interpelations. I'll give them to you in a minute. To make it easier, I wrote out these trains, which - and it was the railroaders that, so to speak, gave me an opinion, the professionals - could be, should be restored and restored later. And yet - sorry, I am finishing, because your marshal is worried - the question about restoring the train, means that it should be co-financed, the relations of West Warsaw - Grodno, a very important connection, by Białystok, and the issue of moving on the priority list, so that Białystok's investment on the basic list - the state border, because it is on the penultimate spot of the reserve list, which is the scandal to which the PO-PSL coalition allowed. Minister, I am giving you these interpellations and I ask you to make a precise reference to everything that Mr Piontkowski has said and what I have been talking about now, especially what is written in the interpellations, because they have a longer mode and you will get it right away. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u34	I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you very much for this question and for the announcement of the interpellation. I will be very obliged to have them come to us as soon as possible so that we can deal with the matter in a clear and positive way to respond to these requests and questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Minister, I'll give it to you right away. They're on their way...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u36	Thank you. Another Member who will be asking the question is Mr Tomasz Kostus from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. The question will be asked on behalf of himself and Mr Leszek Ruszczyk from the same club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u37	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The huge effort of the Marshals of the voivodships managed to negotiate up to 2020 support in the amount of PLN 500 million from the Railway Fund for the restructuring process of the Regional Transport Company supporting compensation for regional rail transport. Nevertheless, the process of regional restructuring of the railway carrier in the case of e.g. Opole voivodship is a huge effort related to renunciations causing partial reduction of connections, which may hinder the development of regional rail transport and reduce the availability of communication. An additional problem is the high and growing rates of access to the railway infrastructure of PKP PLK, I remind you: one of the highest in Europe, representing around 25% of the cost of the regional public service transport offer. Despite the judgment of the European Court of Justice of May 2013 on excessive rates of access to railway lines in Poland, the charges for regional traffic instead of falling, have generally increased, resulting in an increase in the cost of making connections, as well as a reduction in the basic offer - in the timetable of trains 2015/2016 in the Opolskie Voivodeship, the decrease in the number of connections reaches 11%. - due to limited financial possibilities of voivodships. For this reason, please inform: First, when will the government define guidelines on the settlement of the railway fund's funds in 2016 and 2020 for the purchase, modernisation and repair of rolling stock? Secondly, whether the government is planning additional support for local authorities and regional transport companies, for example, for the financing of transport or the replacement and modernisation of obsolete rolling stock, e.g. under the provisions of the State budget reserve? Finally, is the question being considered [[♪ The bell ♪]] reduction of infrastructure charges for regional trains? Please also answer these questions in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u38	Thank you. On behalf of the Minister of Infrastructure and Construction, Mr Jerzy Szmit will also respond to the Undersecretary of State in this ministry. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the question of when the government party will define guidelines on the settlement of the railway fund's funds for 2016 and 2020 for the purchase, modernisation and repair of rolling stock, we respond as follows. On the basis of the provisions of Article. 2 (2) 2 of the Act of 10 July 2015 amending the Railway Fund Act, the Council of Ministers was obliged to update the current programme of in-kind and financial use of the Railway Fund. The purpose of the amendment is to adapt the programme to the new Article. 3 (1) (a) 4a of the Railway Fund Act of 16 December 2005 as of 14 August 2015 as a result of its amendment. According to the amended provisions of the Act, local governments of voivodships will be able to receive further tranches of the railway fund of PLN 110 million per year from 2016. The draft resolution provides for changes to the existing part C of the programme by extending the spending period and increasing the limit of the railway fund for local governments, in accordance with the amended provisions of the Railway Fund Act. The draft resolution was submitted for consideration by the Permanent Committee of the Council of Ministers. The deadline for adoption of the resolution will depend on the work schedule of the Council of Ministers. I would like to assure you that after signing the above-mentioned resolution, the Ministry will immediately inform the Marshals of the voivodships about this fact. As a result, local governments will be able to adopt financial and in-kind plans and payout schedules for 2016. Is the government planning additional support for local governments and regional transport companies, for example, to finance transport or to replace and modernise obsolete rolling stock? For the time being, no additional support is foreseen for the company Regional Transport Sp. z o.o. and organizers of regional transport from public funds above what was planned in the framework of the restructuring project of the company developed with the participation of local governments of voivodships. In April 2014, a steering committee was set up by the Minister of Infrastructure and Development for the conversion and restructuring of Regional Transport Sp. z o.o., which also included representatives of the Marshals of the Voivodships. The aim of the above-mentioned team was to develop a solution that would eliminate the problems of this company. As a result of the team's work, the option of restructuring Regional Transports sp. z o.o. assuming its extension by the introduction of a strategic investor, the Industrial Development Agency SA, and the conclusion by the company of at least 5 years of contracts for the provision of transport services with the organisers of Regional Transports. The regional restructuring plan developed by the Regional Transports to provide them with public aid of PLN 770 million was accepted by the owners, by the local authorities of the voivodships, and presented to the European Commission in September 2015 for its notification. We are still waiting for the decision of the European Commission. The third question - is there a question of reducing the charges for access to infrastructure for regional trains being considered. This is indeed a big problem, and here I fully agree with you that these charges are indeed very high compared to charges in other European countries, but in connection with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-512/10 PKP PLK has since December 2013 lowered the charges for the provision of railway infrastructure. As regards passenger trains, the charges decreased on average by 13% compared to those in force since December 2012. Unfortunately, a further change in rates increased by 3% in December 2014, and the change planned for December 2015 unfortunately provides for a further 2% increase. As with freight, the changes were as follows: in December 2013, the charges decreased by 23% compared to the charges in force since December 2012, and in December 2014 they remained at the current level, while in December this year. a 1% increase is envisaged. At the same time, work is underway to amend the rules on the pricing of rail infrastructure charges. The assumptions adopted include: reducing infrastructure charges for regional trains. The planned deadline for implementing the new legislation is December 2016. I would like to stress that the new management of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction attaches great importance to rail matters and we will do our utmost to ensure that these problems we are talking about here, the access rates, the costs which are borne by carriers, make them as low as possible and at the same time fully realize the possibilities of modernising railway lines, the infrastructure that creates the new perspective of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u40	Does Mr Kostus want to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u41	Yes, Your Marshal. If possible, I wanted to ask the Minister about the agreement he said that the marshals, together with the Industrial Development Agency, would implement or already implement a plan which would result in the extension and restructuring of the Regional Transport Company. The company will receive a total of over PLN 770 million. That's what the Minister said. On the other hand, I would like to ask, by the way, whether the government is planning any changes, some adjustments to this agreement, a plan. Will there be any changes in the competence and implementation of this plan by the operator, the Industrial Development Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u42	I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! For the sake of information, I wanted to say that the money had already gone to the beneficiaries in September this year, the 770 million, and thanks to this money restructuring processes could have moved forward. As far as further action is concerned: Regional transport is a very important part of the Polish railway market. They're public carriers, so we're committed to looking at it, supporting it. Indeed, local governments of voivodships, because they own this company, have a decisive vote, have the most to say. But just as it has been shown in recent months and earlier, because I will remind you that during the Committee on Infrastructure, in which I had the opportunity to participate in the previous term of office of the Sejm, we were very deeply involved in this matter. I hope that we will lead to a situation in which the Regional Transport Company will be able to function well, it will be able to carry out journeys, the most necessary ones, thanks to which people are brought to work every day, to schools, and which are a key issue for the communication coherence of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u44	Thank you very much. The next question will be addressed to the Minister of Health on drug policy, and you will be asked by Mrs Jolant Szczypińska and Maria Zub of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I therefore ask you to ask Mrs Jolanta Szczypińska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u45	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! In Poland, people aged 75 and 80 spend an average of PLN 200 and many seniors cannot afford to implement these prescriptions. The lowest pension is about PLN 880 gross. Often half of the household budget is spent on medicines. Older people want a decent life, they don't want to choose whether to pay their bills or buy prescriptions. And many seniors have to make decisions like this every day. It is estimated that patients do not implement around 13% due to budget deficits Prescriptions issued. In the exposé, Prime Minister Beata Szydło announced the introduction of free medicines for people over 75 years of age. The important issue is what medications will be included in this list of medicines intended for people over 75 years of age. What kind of co-payment? Or just the cheapest ones? The second important issue is the implementation of free medicines intended for people over 75 years of age. How will the Ministry of Health carry this out? That's what I'm asking. In what part of the guaranteed basket will 75+ medications be implemented? What kind of medications are on the senior drug list? Or just the cheapest ones? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u46	Thank you. And please respond to the Minister of Health, Konstanty Radziwiłł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. It is an additional incentive to mobilize us to what we committed a few days ago as a government. I assure you that since the first day of the honeymoon office by the new team, the work on this case has moved on. Of course, today I'm not able to give you the details, but by answering... Maybe I can only confirm and strengthen what you have said first. According to the most conservative estimates and studies 17% , not 13%, the prescription is not bought, but in practice this means that these percentages are not spread evenly across all, but that means that 17% People, people, patients don't do what doctors told them to do. Of course, 17% It's, you can say, not so much, but if we turn it into specific people, it's just drama. I'm saying this as a doctor. That, of course, cannot be done and something must be done about it. All indications are that of the 17% these are the biggest consumers of medicines, and of course older people dominate these consumers of medicines, because old age has to do with the fact that they are accompanied by diseases, especially chronic diseases, which require constant medication. So, of course, we see this problem, and that's why solving it has become one of the priorities of the government. I would also like to say very clearly, before I mention the details, that it is not an idea that, so to speak, it is not known from where, because in many countries drugs are free for this category of people. And it's not some kind of reckless distribution, it's just security, health security for these people. As far as specific questions are concerned, I can say yes. The plan is to ensure that these 75+ medicines are implemented simply as part of a separate list on the reimbursement list, i.e. every two months for the time being. There is a plan to make the reimbursement list less frequent and to create such an additional category S for seniors on this list. And that's, you could say, the first part of the answer. Now, what kind of drugs are they gonna get on that list? Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we must, on the one hand, ensure the safety of the health of the persons concerned, but at the same time secure public finances. And this is where you have to maneuver, so to speak, between these two extremes. I'm sure all those drugs that are close to the limit on this S-list are gonna be on the list, which is flat-rate drugs and a little higher co-payment. Gradually, like the entire reimbursement group, we will expand this list, we will extend it especially to these medicines, and they will definitely be on the list the first time, which, from a medical point of view, are assigned to old age, i.e. medicines whose risk of saving to the senior, but intended for the younger person, is the smallest. It's a matter of responsibility for finance. Will all the doctors be able to prescribe these medications? Well, the plan is that ultimately, yes, but we'll probably start by just being doctors of primary health care, because we're all aware of the possibility of some kind of moral gambling, rewriting these drugs in the name of a senior, but for someone else's sake. It seems that the family doctor who knows the patient should be such an additional, as if an informal controller, to prevent abuse. Finally, when it comes to who's gonna control these meds, who's gonna belong to the senior, there's gonna be no control. It will not be any additional obligation for doctors or anyone else, because simply from the PESEL number it appears that the person is 75+, and on this basis the pharmacist will simply issue a drug that will be on the appropriate list, free of charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u48	I will ask Mrs Maria Zuba for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u49	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister, for answering this part of the question. However, I would like to know more about the control system. Will the decision be made only by a doctor, without any control system, or will there be a control system? And will those medicines that will be used for this free dispensing system be determined according to some criterion arising from the disease unit? There is a discussion in the press that e.g. This will be in the field of cardiology, diabetes, etc. How will this directory be created? Or just on the basis of experience so far, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What medications are consumed by seniors and prescribed to seniors? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u50	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! As for the first part of the question about control, the plan is not to add bureaucracy in any area to doctors or pharmacists, so the system is to be the easiest. We also move away from ideas such as: Some kind of income threshold. The point is that the system should not be an additional burden for anyone, including a patient who would have to prove that he was poor somewhere. It's just not gonna happen. You could say, statistically, we're locating the 17%. Unbuyed prescriptions in the environment of older people and they need to be dedicated to them simply because they are of such age rather than others. On the other hand, when it comes to the creation of a catalogue, I may not have made a precise statement, although - I repeat again - we are at the stage of planning this solution right now. In general, it can be said that the system of qualification of medicines for the list, for seniors, will be the same as the system of qualification of medicines for individual groups of reimbursements, i.e. with all the authorities involved and thresholds, the criteria according to which they follow. I repeat once again that it will be certainly above all, you can say, automatically such medicines, for which moral gambling or financial risks are very small, i.e. cheap medicines, and among the more expensive medicines they will first of all be medicines, which are primarily used in older people, where the risk of abuse is less than elsewhere. It seems that this must be left in the hands of professionals, because it is simply a medical criterion and according to this medical criterion we will be entering these drugs on this list. If it turns out - and the National Health Fund has quite good insight into what it looks like to issue prescriptions - that there are not too many abuses, we will certainly expand this list, with a target solution that is applied to military disabilities, i.e. medicines free of charge up to the limit, or even somewhere at the end of the road, as in the case of war disabilities, medicines free of charge at all. However, I think that today it is difficult to say what the situation will look like and develop. I think that there is also a possibility that we will simply keep this up to date, and if just as I say, there will be no abuse - I believe that this is possible - it will simply expand the list of these medicines so that practically all treatment of elderly patients can take place free of charge. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much, Minister. Both doctors and the elderly are very concerned that this is such a very clear, simple system. I see you're building it in this direction. Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u52	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. He will ask this question on his behalf and on behalf of Mrs Kingi Gajewska from the same club, and it will concern the functioning of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. You will answer the question of Minister Marek G grubarczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u53	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! My question concerns the scope of activity and functioning of the newly established Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. A part of the scope of matters relating to the operation of the new Ministry will certainly be moved, among others. from the Ministry of Treasury, which also functions now, and by definition into the maritime sphere can be classified as: maritime and inland navigation, shipbuilding, mining and of course maritime industries, ports and port services, sea fishing, maritime administration and inland waterway shipping. Therefore, and in connection with the appointment of a new ministry, I ask you with the following questions: Which government offices or units will be subject to supervision by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation? Will the supervision of State Treasury companies operating in the field of maritime affairs be carried out by the Ministry? If so, please indicate the companies that will be subject to the supervision of this Ministry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u54	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Following the questions of the Member and of the Member, I would like to inform you that the following institutions will be covered by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation: maritime authorities, i.e. maritime authorities, inland waterway authorities, inland waterway authorities, bodies - State Commission for the Exploration of Marine Accidents, Central Examination Commission, Maritime Search and Rescue Service, Sar - and maritime chambers, and also the Maritime Institute in Gdańsk and both maritime academies, Regional Fisheries Inspectorates, the Maritime Fisheries Institute - the State Research Institute in Gdynia and the Institute for Mediterranean Fisheries in Olsztyn. As to the answer to the second part of the question, it is a question of ownership supervision, legislative work is currently underway in relation to the development of the rules of ownership of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping of state-owned enterprises and companies with the participation of the State Treasury. The aim of the Ministry is to create a modern and administratively efficient maritime management entity. This also requires the extension of ownership rights to commercial entities which operate in the field of operation of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u56	Would you like to ask an additional question? [[No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. In that case, we move on to the next question to be asked by Mr Marek Zagórski and Mr Robert Telus of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the preparation of the IT system of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. The question is addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, and Minister Krzysztof Jurgel will answer. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Since 16 October, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture has been paying advance direct payments to farmers. And that, of course, is very good news, because these payments due to the drought that affected farmers are very much expected by them. At the same time, however, mainly from the county offices, information is provided that the payment of these advances takes place with the agency's completely operational IT system. First of all, it is an administrative control module, which is crucial to ensuring that payments are paid correctly. This in turn is very important because this process is subject to scrutiny and verification by the European Commission and in the event of any irregularities This threatens possible sanctions, read: reimbursement of funds paid in breach of procedures. It is said that this situation is due to the fact that the IT system, which should be ready to handle payments to a changed extent, because the regulations and rules have changed since this year, is not ready. I therefore ask the Minister to inform you of the state in which he is preparing the IT system of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u58	You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is: What is the state of preparation of the ARiMR IT system for handling direct payment applications? As you know, the whole issue of payment payments under this scheme is a very extensive subject. Yesterday, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development dealt with this by discussing the tasks of the agency, as well as the implementation of the 2007 Today, of course, in this short period of time, I will refer only specifically to this question, stating first the facts and then the actions taken as a result of the fact that on 16 November I started serving as Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. A few facts first. Thus, in December 2013, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture concluded agreement No 72 on the adaptation of the existing IT system, one of the elements of which was the modification of the system for the implementation of new direct payments. The budget for this was PLN 10 million. Today I will not judge those agreements and the facts that have taken place, because it requires legal analysis and audit. I think it's time for that. There are different assessments, but here I can't make conclusions if they're not fully tested. For example, we are talking about dumped prices or about obtaining an order. Secondly, as the budget was quickly exhausted - this 10 million - 30 April 2015 the agency concluded another contract, No. 19, which was entirely devoted to the construction of a new IT system of PLN 34 million. See: it was only on April 30 this year that a new system was decided to be built, whereas the three-year operation of this system is expected to cost around 300 million. The preliminary conclusions can be drawn, but once again I stress that these conclusions will be drawn. According to the April contract schedule, this is contract No 19, the system ensuring that administrative checks could be carried out was to be put into effect on 18 November 2015 but on 8 October 2015. the contractor has informed the Agency that it will not implement the software within the time limits specified in the contract, while indicating that the implementation of the first stage of the software may only take place on 14 February 2016. It is known what this has led to and leads to: that on 1 December payments or direct payments would not be initiated. As a result of the negotiations with the contractor, this was done by the former Minister of Agriculture and the President of the Agency, who is still there. An annex to the agreement has been signed - it has already been signed by the agency - accepting what is important from the point of view of payments, such deadlines: 7 December first stage, administrative control and the calculation of cases without sanctions, i.e. payments: JPO, redistribution, greening, payments to cows, payments to cattle and payments to goats, and this would cover about 30 farmers, February 22nd, the second stage, I will be brief, would be covered by a further 35-40% farmers in subsequent schemes, and 4 April third stage, about 30% farmers, i.e. according to this payment schedule, would be paid around the end of April. We know that the law says that it is possible to pay from 1 December to 30 June, that is, here in general the law would not be broken, but, of course, the role of the supervisory authority, the minister, is to control the reality of these tasks or tasks that have been agreed between the contractor and the agency. Here we have taken actions which aim, first, to verify the reality of these findings, namely, in short, the performance of an external audit by a state entity. Is it real? From these conclusions will it be possible to take such measures as will speed up the implementation of certain steps. And that is the condition, for today it looks like this, when it comes to the implementation of this system, i.e. the deadlines will certainly be exceeded. What is the reality, that is technical, and whether it is possible to implement this annex, this will be an evaluation. Additional information as it was decided on advances this year. Minister Sawicki has yet decided that advance payments will be paid. By November 16, around 1300 million were paid out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have received a letter from the previous finance minister that there will be no more subsidies this year due to the state of the budget, but after taking up the role of minister I have submitted a request to Minister Shamacha, Minister of Finance, for additional funds of 1,400 thousand. [[A billion.]] [[A billion or a million?]] Sorry, 1,400 million. And in total, if by 30 November, because this is a possible deadline, it will be, the advances will be paid, it will be about 2.7 billion this year. In the previous years, however, there were 1.2 billion in 2013, 2.4 in 2013 and 2.4 in 2014. So in terms of volume, the amount of payments in these years until 31 December, we do not deviate from the norm after this intervention and the granting of an additional amount by the current finance minister, while the problem is the implementation of this annex and its reality. This is already the role, as I said, of audit and certain control activities, of better supervision. One of the problems that has occurred, and is due to talks with officials, is that the current president of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u60	Minister, why don't we finish the answer on the extra question. Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development Krzysztof Jurgel: ...was not decision-making at the time and caused various delays. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I ask Mr Robert Telus to ask for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We see that the matter of negligence, of severe negligence, will cause farmers to receive subsidies much later this year than they should have received so far. There's one fact I'm wondering. The Minister said that 10 million, the first contract, was to modify the system, and the next agreement was to change completely, the new system was placed. Was that $10 million a waste, or was it needed? That's one question. Second thing. Between this agreement of 10 million and this agreement of 33 million is probably a year and a half. Why was it so late that the decision was made to set up a new system to make a new system? Next question: Was the Ministry informed? In my opinion, it is a scandal for farmers to learn that they will not get paid much later after they have removed the minister from the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more question, Minister, because personally, this information is very upsetting to me. Yesterday we learned at the committee meeting that the head of the agency was running for office. Is this the way it's supposed to be? In such an important situation, shouldn't the head of the agency watch over, see to the end, not campaigning? Didn't that affect the delay? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u62	Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The doubts that you are talking about will in part be explained by the audit, because I have ordered the audit, as I said, to the IT centre. This is a state unit. Among other things, the first question will be to assess the validity of the decision to build a new IT system to handle the 2015 direct payment application on the basis of the existing IT system. And a number of questions, these questions, are a dozen or so: identification of agreements concluded by the army affecting the implementation of information systems at which stage these implementations are being implemented, whether the supplier has systematically informed about the implementation of the contract, whether the conduct of procedures for the award of public contracts, the control of the proper protection of the interests of the agency in contracts with contractors, the supervision of the agency over the contractors of IT systems in terms of the timely fulfilment of commitments made and the quality of their implementation, whether the way in which the system was delivered, the way in which the projects were implemented, and, if so, whether the way in which the agency's supply was supervised and the identification of problems and risks, and the recommendations necessary for the timely payment of payments were observed. This last point... The auditor has undertaken to identify these problems, risks and will present within a month a preliminary version of the necessary measures to be taken. The assessment of other aspects will still be carried out. Today, it is difficult for me to speak with conviction about certain actions. On the other hand, when it comes to political matters, I think it's like I don't belong here anymore. But - if we can talk about it - I think that when it comes to administrative staff, but in office, we should limit the start in elections, because if the institution is acting and the director is doing election meetings as part of his duties, it is probably not right. You just have to separate it, and it probably applies to everyone in some part of it, but in the last few years, it was especially about this coalition. We've got further action ahead of us. I would like to stress that we do not only want to deal with evaluation, accounting, but we want to make it possible for farmers to receive subsidies as soon as possible, if the first issue is to maintain the deadlines resulting from the annex, because agreements have been signed, and to try to do so in order to speed up this process. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u64	Thank you, Minister. The next Members who will ask questions are Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice: Mr Uściński and Mr Jacek Sasin. The question is addressed to the Minister of Finance and concerns the decision of the Financial Supervision Commission of 21 November 2015 suspending the activities of SK Bank and requesting the bankruptcy of that bank. I ask Mr Piotr Uściński to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On 11 August this year, when the management board of the SK Bank was established, a large group of customers withdrew their funds, closed fixed-term deposits, left no more than 100,000 in the accounts. Euros. On 25 August, i.e. a few days, a few weeks later, SK Bank's management board organized a meeting with local clients. According to the report of the participants of the meeting, it was reported that the recovery procedure would take two to three years and was encouraged to return with funds and timely deposits, ensuring that this was safe. The current suspension of SK Bank's activities has many consequences for the bank's customers, including for the local community of the Vołomi district and not only. The planned guaranteed payments from BFG do not solve all the problems. Therefore, we ask the Minister of Finance: Shouldn't it have been introduced to the SK Bank of the commission board much earlier? In September 2014, the audit was carried out there and it was probably already known that the bank was doing badly. Was it not a political decision at the time, due to the proximity of local elections, as well as the financial supervision activities in Wołomin at the time? Second question. Does the Ministry of Finance plan any measures to protect entrepreneurs who were customers of SK Bank? This is the first bankruptcy of the bank for many, many years and we fear that there will be a domino effect, which will result in many local companies being operated by the bank falling. The particularly difficult situation may apply to developers and their customers, because the development law protects against the fall of the developer, not protects the developer. [[♪ The bell ♪]] before the collapse of the bank operated by the developer. Here the assets of customers who are in the process of buying an apartment at the developer are at risk. And one more question. Was the financial support provided by the National Bank of Poland to SK? Newspapers said that in August this year during the commission board 500 million were added to the bank by the National Bank of Poland. Was that money spent on purpose, reasonable? Wasn't it exposed to the loss of public money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u66	Thank you very much. I would like your answer, on behalf of the Minister of Finance, your Undersecretary of State in this Ministry of Leszek Skiba. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I answer the Member's question. In fact, when it comes to the activities of the Financial Supervision Committee, we are going to ask for additional information, because the problem of setting up a commission board in August this year, as well as the activities involved, is an important topic that we will try to establish with KNF and we will respond in a separate manner. Therefore, part of this question concerning proceedings against SK Bank throughout the whole period, in fact a large part of this question, should be addressed to KNF as it was the KNF that observed SK Bank since 2013 and actually led to the establishment of a commissional board in August this year. Today we have such a situation that on 21 November a request for bankruptcy was filed for the bank. In fact, we are watching this situation, but we are not able to explain all the intentions of the KNF today. For this reason, there is also a question about this agreement, in which the National Bank of Poland participated. We would like to get a deeper understanding of this and recognize the intentions, and we will, of course, respond in writing. As regards the additional question about guarantees, the real problem is that the formal rules allow a deposit of up to 100,000. The euro, and this is in line with the Directive. Therefore, when it comes to relations with the developer, it is also worth mentioning the development accounts. So you can say what is today, what is the current legal state, so this legal state is that there is a guarantee of deposits up to 100,000. Euros. These funds will be paid from the Guarantee Fund, i.e. it will not really be from the aid fund which was used in the context of the support related to the SKOKs a few months ago, only these funds will be allocated, these funds will come from banks. It is estimated that the total value of deposits that are secured by this guarantee up to 100,000. The euro, in the case of SK Bank, is about PLN 2 billion. So this is the aggregate estimate of the effects of bank bankruptcy in terms of deposit guarantees under Polish law. Indeed, the problem of SK Bank is the problem of supervision and how KNF acted. But once again, I would like to point out that we really need to recognise what the action was, and why it really is about what happened in August, the loan, and indeed the declaration that the situation is not serious, is somewhat in contradiction with what happened last time. Therefore, we will examine the matter and reply in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u68	I would like to ask Mr Sasin for an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We are very pleased with this declaration to examine KNF's activities in this case, because indeed, unlike in the case of, for example, Wołomin SKOK, when KNF's lack of action argued the late supervision of this financial institution, SK Bank was supervised at all times by KNF. Indeed, the big question is why these corrective measures were not taken earlier. On the other hand, today I would like to ask another additional question, because the situation of local government entities that were customers of SK Bank must be of particular concern. Next to individual and business customers, this was a fairly serious segment of the bank's customers. The Bank Guarantee Fund, according to information from local authorities, has previously passed on such interpretation to local governments that each local government unit, which was a client of SK Bank, will be treated separately, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So it's going to be treated as a separate client, and its contributions up to 100,000. The euro will be recovered in the event of a bank collapse. Today, the commission manager changed this interpretation and informs that each local government, its units will be treated as one entity, although they concluded separate contracts and were separate clients of that bank. If this interpretation were to be accepted, today many local governments will suffer very large losses, which often amount to PLN 1 million, which will be irrecoverable. This can cause additional, very serious problems for these local governments with further activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u70	I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u71	What I can declare is that we're going to look at this case, because now I'm unfortunately not able to answer exactly why the district administrator actually said so. So if we may, we will also respond in writing. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u72	Thank you. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that at this meeting information on Poland's security will be considered in the context of the international situation, which was brought by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Law and Justice to justify the request for information on Poland's security in an international context. In the context of the international situation, which we are currently dealing with, this is an extremely complex situation. Firstly, this great wave of immigrants that we are dealing with is really causing some tensions and a sense of danger within the country. This wave of immigrants, High Izbo, is a wave that has never before touched so much Europe in history. We are dealing with a phenomenon that can only be compared to what once happened during the great journey of peoples. This is a situation where representatives of non-European civilizations are heading towards the North. This is the situation where the North, the countries of the European Union, from the perspective of the poor South, appear as a land of honey and milk flowing. The question therefore arises as to whether Poland and the countries of the European Union are prepared to ensure or guarantee those standards which are expected by those who are moving towards the North. The second factor - very important and important - is what is related to the recent events from four days ago and which took place in Paris. High Izbo, I deliberately point out that this is only one of many aspects, because among this great wave of immigrants were those who had previously cooperated with the Islamic State. So the question arises: Are the services, whether the Polish administration is prepared to meet this challenge, which is before us, before Poland, but also the other countries of the European Union. Finally, the third factor - very important and important - is what is related to what happened recently in the Syrian-Turkish border, the fact that the Russian SU-24 bomber was shot down by Turkish fighters. This is the situation we're dealing with right now. These events took place two days ago. It actually shows the tension within Europe between, on the one hand, countries not only of the European Union, but in this case also the North Atlantic Pact and, on the other hand, the Russian Federation, also in the context of the conflict that is taking place in the Middle East. Ladies and gentlemen, here is also the fourth point, the fourth factor - very important and important - that is, what is happening behind our eastern border, and thus the Russian Federation's policy, which aims, on the one hand, to expand and strengthen the empire - the idea of Vladimir Vladimirovich - and, on the other hand, to work consistently towards a return to the European table. Thus, in the context of these four factors - namely, firstly, this great historical wave of immigrants, secondly, the threat of terrorism, Islamic fundamentalism, the possibility of penetration of representatives of these organizations into Poland, thirdly, terrorist attacks, and finally the shooting down of Russian aircraft and imperial politics - the question of government information seems to be a completely legitimate question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u74	Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Minister of the Interior and Administration of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that the security of the state and citizens is a priority of the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło. As Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, I will do my utmost to effectively and decisively prevent and combat threats to the security of Poland and Poles, including those related to terrorism. After the assassinations in Paris, the services are fully prepared and monitor the security situation in Poland. There have been no signals so far indicating an increase in the terrorist threat in the country, but the government is aware of the potential danger in this area. High Sejm, it should be stressed that the current security situation in the European Union depends on a number of factors which affect the dynamics of the decisions taken. The current situation must be seen in connection with the migration crisis, as Mr Bernacki pointed out. At this point, it requires that the government is aware of the commitments made within the European Union by our predecessors. This does not mean that the government accepts the use of automation in refugee relocations. We believe that the voluntary principle should apply in this respect. At the same time, the government is conducting analyses on the possibility of possible reconstruction of the European Union's existing decisions. For the Government of Law and Justice, the most important thing is to ensure the safety of Poland and Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, on a European scale, the situation is dynamic and poses a diverse threat in different Member States. It is also true that the current situation is due to an inadequate assessment of the possibilities and scale of migration in the various countries of the European Union. At the same time, we are dealing with organized crime groups who are involved in smuggling people. At the same time, it should be noted that immigration policies have recently been tightened up by other countries of the European Union. In recent speeches, for example, the French Prime Minister said that the European Union must declare that it is no longer possible for it to accept so many migrants and that it must find a solution for those who are fleeing Syria to be accepted by neighbouring countries. High Seym, to guarantee security Poland actively participates in activities within the European Union. In this context, I would like to mention that security issues were discussed at an extraordinary meeting of the Council on Security. The Justice and Home Affairs dimension with my participation on 20 November this year. The meeting adopted conclusions indicating specific priority actions to be implemented in the near future. During the discussion, we agreed that existing cooperation instruments should be used more effectively, among others. during the verification of persons arriving in the European Union. The main policy decisions taken during this meeting include speeding up work on the EU system for the processing of air passengers' data in order to prevent and combat serious crime and terrorism. Moreover, ministers agreed that we need to cooperate as closely as possible in the exchange of information, including intelligence, between Member States and strengthen control mechanisms at the external border of the European Union, taking into account the citizens of the European Union, based on precise risk analysis indicators. High Izbo! As regards the activities undertaken by the services under and supervised by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, I inform you that following the growing migratory crisis, a plan for the Border Guard's conduct was drawn up in the event of a massive influx of migrants across the southern border of the Republic of Poland. The aim of this plan is primarily to determine how Border Guard organisational units operate when large groups of migrants are detained at the southern border, to assess the possibilities of their own formations and the scope and forms of cooperation with other actors and possible external support needs in the event of an escalation of the phenomenon. In parallel, intensive action for direct border protection is being carried out. Monitoring is carried out on road and rail routes running from the state border from threatened directions. Cooperation with the police, the Customs Service, the Internal Security Agency, the Road Transport Inspection and the Railway Guard, as well as the voivodeship crisis management departments has been strengthened in all Border Guard departments. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, All services of the Polish anti-terrorist system carry out tasks in the field of their statutory competences in relation to the prevention of terrorist threats in Poland, including the recognition of threats and the exchange of information. On 23 November this year, with the participation of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, a meeting was held between the heads of security services at the Government Security Centre. The services have passed reports, specific recommendations have been issued. Together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I was obliged to prepare a draft anti-terrorist law. Together with Minister Mariusz Kaminski, we also held a meeting at the Anti-Terrorist Centre of the Internal Security Agency. Minister Antoni Macierewicz, on the other hand, attended a meeting of the Ministers of National Defence of the European Union. He declared his support for France on behalf of the Polish government while respecting the principle of reciprocity. High Seym! It is also crucial to raise public awareness of the principles of behaviour in the event of a terrorist attack and the possible activities of the relevant services at that time. This will help build public understanding and support for these activities, improve rescue and, above all, increase the safety of the people of our country. Examples of preventive actions implemented and planned in the near future are training for school teaching staff on how to identify and maintain terrorist threats and how to develop them, and training already started for the managers of shopping centres. High Izbo! I assure you that the government, as well as the competent services, monitor on an ongoing basis the international situation and the impact of these events on the current situation in Poland. Closer cooperation between competent institutions and services is being carried out and effective border protection measures are being stepped up. Following terrorist attacks in Paris on 13 November 2015, the Police Anti-Terrorism Unit notified the French party of its readiness to provide assistance. In addition, it should be noted that police officers continue to cooperate with the units of the Member States of the European Union by participating, inter alia. in joint exercises outside the country. I would also like to point out that in the near future a meeting of the Interministerial Terrorist Threats Team will be held, which will discuss not only current events but also the short-term and long-term orientations of actions aimed at strengthening the anti-terrorism system of Poland, including the legislative measures mentioned above. In addition, given the need to strengthen security and public order activities, after agreement with the Minister for Security and Public Affairs. Special Services and Minister of National Defence, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration has submitted to voivodships and chief of police, chief of the Main Border Guard, Chief of State Fire Department and Head of Government Security with specific recommendations, i.e. with a recommendation to strengthen the control of large human clusters, public facilities and other potential extra-military attack facilities, to verify the operation of communication measures operating for the management system, to verify the operation of alarm systems and the capacity of escape routes, to review procedures and other measures necessary in the area of security assurance. He also asked about the situation that took place two days ago, the case of a plane being shot down in the Russian-Turkish border. Well, on 24 November, the North Atlantic Council met, which found this incident to be an incident. NATO crisis management tools have not been implemented. Poland is prepared to react in the event of such a threat. The institution responsible for coordinating the implementation of the system in Poland and the national contact point is the Government Security Centre and the Operational Command of Armed Forces Types. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u76	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that, until now, 17 have signed up for the vote... 18, we've just had a change, 18 Members. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak again? [[Me too.]] Then maybe we can agree that by the end of the first Member's questioning, we can still sign up for the list, and then we'll close this list. In this situation, I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of the Member from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice of Stanisław Five. You're welcome. Are you an MP? [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member.]] Then I ask you to take the floor of the Member of the Parliamentary Club Law... [[The Civic Platform.]] ...sorry, the Civic Platform is in order, Mr Mark Wójcik. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the election campaign Law and Justice announced withdrawal from the decision to accept refugees to Poland who would be relocated to our country from other European countries. I would like to ask the Minister whether this decision has been upheld because in the first days of the new government, many representatives of the government, ministers, spoke on this subject, saying that you will withdraw from this decision. In recent days of speeches, among others. The Minister suggests, however, that refugees will be admitted to Poland. On the other hand, you emphasize in your statements that you will take care of the safety of Poles. In my view, the plan for the reception of refugees drawn up by the previous government also assumed such care for the safety of the citizens, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister what exactly you intend to apply in the procedures you intend to apply, deciding which of the refugees will be relocated to our country, is changing in relation to this plan, which was still being prepared by the previous government. Minister, I was also interested in some of the issues that you mentioned, that is to say, to start cooperation, to start training for real estate managers in connection with the terrorist threat... I'm sorry for the managers of shopping malls in relation to the terrorist threat. In my opinion, such a decision would be the right thing to do, but I would like to ask whether this means starting to work with a representative of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, with representatives of the security industry. Will this cooperation take any organized form? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u78	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask the question of another Member, namely Mr Paweł Kukiz of the Kukiz Posel Club15. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] In that case, I ask you to ask the question, to take the floor of another Member, namely Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz from the Modern Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u80	Mr President, before you begin, I would like to say that, in view of the fact that the first speech has ended, I am closing the list. And there are 22 people on that list right now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u81	Thank you very much. As a question has already been raised here concerning the position of the Law and Justice as regards refugees, because, indeed, at the beginning, this voice was not clear and some representatives said that it should not be accepted, some - that it should be only under appropriate conditions, I am no longer returning to that question. On the other hand, I have a question about the idea of the presence of refugees in Poland, because we have several possibilities. Or we will prepare ourselves for the fact that they will be people who will be prepared to stay in Poland, i.e. to learn the language, to provide them with the opportunity to work. It's like one idea. The second is that these refugees will be deployed in refugee centers so that they can wait out this most difficult period for them, wait until the war is over, and so that they can return to their country. The third, last, is to treat them as people who are temporarily in Poland, but ultimately think about moving to other countries of the European Union. Therefore, my question is: Is there any coherent idea of what really the refugees will have here? What's the idea of their presence? I'm gonna go back to a situation that happened 15 years ago when we took 80,000. refugees from Chechnya. I myself was responsible for dislocating these people in Małopolska and in the south of Poland and I will honestly admit that it was quite well organized. The question is whether or not to return to the solutions that were then taken. Indeed, it went very well, we did not feel it, even though it was people who depended on the Polish government and all these costs associated with their presence in Poland were covered by the budget. Here we have a slightly different situation, because part of the costs will be covered by the European Union. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u82	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the list has increased to 23 people. The last person on the list is Krystyna Skowrońska. And now, please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The events that took place in Belgium and France certainly increased a sense of legitimate concern among Polish citizens. The greater concern is that today we know that among the Paris bombers there were people who crossed the European border with the last wave of illegal immigrants. I would like to ask, Minister, if you intend to terminate the commitments made by the previous government team in the so-called case. amounts. One thing is certain - I think it is possible, and after these quotas have been said, the safety of Poles will increase. Second question. Well, at the beginning of November in Zabrze, the police stopped the car on French registration numbers for routine inspection and found 3,000 in the trunk. ammunition items for Kalashnikov. A few days ago, in a private garage in downtown Bytomia, police found 211 units of firearms, 1030 pieces of ammunition and 537 different components of firearms. Of course, this information must be disturbing. I would therefore like to ask: Do we already have any information and can we gain knowledge that these discoveries have something to do with the activities of fundamentalist organisations operating in the West of Europe? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u84	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Ewa Malik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. [[Voice from the Chamber: There is no Member in the Chamber.]] As the Member is absent, please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Henczyca from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome. Another Member of the list is Mr Blażej Parda from the Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! During the electoral campaign, many Members and candidates of the Civic Platform declared the adoption of the so-called. refugees to their homes. Perhaps it is worth considering this solution and preparing a plan for the adoption of such refugees by certain people. Second line. I wonder if the planned 500 PLN per child will not encourage many families to emigrate in the future. We know that there are fewer and fewer families in Poland, often one-two-child families. Could that also cause some kind of threat in the future? Has anyone thought about it? Too much social policy in Western countries has caused the current situation and I have some concerns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u86	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Szłapka from the Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, there are increasingly voices in many European Union countries that undermine the free movement of persons within the Union. My question is this: What is our government's position on the idea of suspending the functioning of the Schengen area and introducing border controls within the internal borders of the European Union? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u88	Thank you very much. Another Member is Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Chiefs, Commandants of Formation and Service! Thanking Professor Bernacki for the sensitivity and initiative to address this issue during this session of the Sejm, I would like to add a few thoughts. As an inhabitant of the border area of Lubuskie land and wider western wall, where the border is permeable, it is more symbolic, I pay attention to the diversity of this border, as well as the eastern one, which is the last border of the European Union and the internal border. In inviting, therefore, a certain sensitivity, which the Minister has already mentioned in his submission, and the need to diversify the activities of the services on both sides of our border, I will also refer to an issue which seems important to me due to the modern way of communicating. It seems appropriate to pay attention to the need to seal the cover of information and communication systems, including not only cyber attacks, but also cyberdezinformation, which due to the dynamics of operation and the universality of its multiplication is highly effective in operation. Finally, another element that should be raised in this area of Poland's security should be the question not only about our territorial responsibility for security: what we guard within our borders, I would like to direct our sensitivity to those of our compatriots who are where terrorist, war and conflict events take place. I therefore request that institutions representing Poland abroad be made more sensitive, so that they are fully and fully embedded in security procedures, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They opened up to the needs of our fellow countrymen at the scenes. And the last paragraph. Next year we have two important events - the NATO Summit and the World Youth Days. I suppose the NATO summit will be tip-toply covered by terrorism. I would like to ask for the same sensitivity with regard to WYD. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u90	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We thank you for this introduction by the Minister, although laconic, because due to a short time, but moving practically all the areas of security that are subject to the Minister. Congratulations on your choice, Mr. Minister was in opposition until recently, and we also had the opportunity to work together on the committee. In this connection, I would like to ask you this question: Do you uphold this decision, because many times, when the 100-percent compensation for medical leave in uniform services was introduced, you have repeatedly criticised this decision, whether you are maintaining your position today or going back to 100% payments, because many officers are asking this question, or are you, as it were, on the agenda of the facts and there will still be existing solutions? The basic issue of security today is what Poles are talking about, the issue of refugees, and it is impossible to ignore it. Therefore, we observe that there is a kind of softening of the PiS position, and at the moment you no longer speak so categorically. Therefore, my question is: How many refugees are you planning to receive? What are the rules? What are the procedures for checking these refugees? What if the channels of metastases change? You mentioned to the minister that there was a plan to be introduced in case the channel went up from the south. Therefore, is this plan, which, I understand, was still prepared under the Platform's rule, acceptable? Is that a good plan? Or are you planning to make any changes to this plan? Still with regard to refugees: if you are already planning to accept them, what will the costs be, how much will one relocated refugee cost? How much are we gonna pay for this? Or are EU funds entirely enough for that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u93	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As we all know, as time passes, threats in the world change and new ones appear, some or several years earlier no one has noticed. And the recent terrorist attacks in Paris raise the obvious question: Is the security of the Republic of Poland not directly or indirectly at risk? It may seem that this greatest threat is focused on the countries of Western Europe active in the fight against terrorism, but I think that the emergence of terrorist cells also in our country cannot be ruled out. It is worrying that the PO-PSL government for eight years has not seen the seriousness of the situation and has weakened almost all services, including special services, by lowering their budgets and not adapting their competences to the changing nature of the threat. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: Does the current government recognise the need to amend the legislation enabling the relevant services to effectively monitor the security of the state, identify risks and eliminate them, and the need for adequate funding for these services? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u94	Thank you very much. Is Mr Jakub Rutnicki here? There isn't. In that case, I would ask Mrs Anna Paluch from the Parliamentary Club to speak Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Two years ago, the PO-PSL government changed the organisation of Border Guards on the southern border of the state. These were the changes that all Members of the Sądecki district, who criticized the local community, actually strongly criticised. These were changes - I do not hesitate to say these words - without sufficient substantive reasons, i.e. even against the strategic documents previously formulated by the government of PO-PSL, that one branch per border. There was supposed to be one in Polish-Slovak. It is difficult at the moment - because I only have two minutes to ask this question - to go into the details, to discuss this many times, and to make these arguments many times. In general, we see that the southern border is not yet an object, but this situation, as shown by various assessments, can change. In such a situation, the liquidation of the command in Nowy Sącz, which had the entire logistics infrastructure, from the point of view of logistics, from the point of view of rational management of the facilities is simply unthinkable. Also reducing the density of facilities in the area such as the southern border of the country, the Polish-Slovak border, the mountain area with a lot of density, with a considerable intensity of forest areas, areas requiring just constant patrolling, is worrying. My question is short and clear: Will the government take up the subject of reorganisation, i.e. the restoration of the Carpathian Border Guard branch with a command in Nowy Sącz? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When may these changes occur? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u96	Mr Józef Lassot, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, joined the next floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u97	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, the Minister's information was such a review. Although it did not bring anything new to what the media reported, I understand that this is a way not to reveal all the actions that may be taken. I would also like to refer to the statement by Mr Polak, who said completely unfoundedly that the PO-PSL government has weakened its services by reducing its budget. Well, Mr President, all you had to do was look at the budgets that are generally available, and you certainly wouldn't be saying such a statement anymore. I have a question for the Minister to give concrete details of what it has been like in these services and budgets over the last few years. On the other hand, I would also like to obtain information on how to transmit, actually repeating like mantras, and the Minister also used it today in his speech, about the decision to automate the reception of refugees. I mean, I understand that the point is that in proportion, depending on the influx of refugees, Poland supposedly committed itself to automatic acceptance in proportion to the quantity. Before the establishment of the government by Law and Justice, you said that we were going to see what it really looked like, because there were some secrets, someone there declared not to tell anyone. I would therefore like to ask the Minister today when the Minister has access to full information: What is it really like? I would ask you to state the facts to the public. I don't know if those facts you've been saying are confirmed or not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If not, I would ask for a clear explanation and correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u98	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Adam Oldakowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, do we know how many Polish citizens have joined terrorists so-called. The Islamic State? Because it's also one of the major dangers associated with terrorist activities. Minister, I am a Member of Warmia and Mazury, the district of Bartoszycki, which means I live in the border area. Do you know that our district police headquarters lack not only police officers, but also resources to work, such as paper for printers, fuel, computers, and still district commanders, instead of asking for money to the provincial commanders, in any case they turn to our poor local governments, and they never refuse to help them? And the third question. I'm talking about the Bartoszyce Police Department, where we have our headquarters, which is worth it. The 19th century, not the 21st century. We have an area, which is a construction site, we have plans to build a modern police station, but there is not enough money to build it. Can we count on the Minister's support in this matter? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u100	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the exposé, Prime Minister Szydło raised the security issues of our country in general. After a meeting with the representatives of the uniform services, the Prime Minister said that she believed that the situation was under control and that she knew that we had to be very well prepared for any developments related to internal security. Ladies and gentlemen, I call for the actions and communications related to our country's security to be concrete and addressed to citizens. Our fellow countrymen are not enough news in the media that President Duda or Prime Minister Szydło met with representatives of the service and heard that we are safe in Poland, and they believed it. Poles want to know more. What is our safety? How are we prepared for possible terrorist attacks? How have the services been involved in strengthening this security? Is there a specific level of cooperation between services on this issue, including in the international context? I would like further information: Is it planned in Zwardon, the zywiecki district, to create a place for the refugee camp? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u102	Thank you very much. Another vote was made by Mrs Anna Cicholska, Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u103	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Due to the concern expressed by - and reported to me - the association of the municipalities of the Płock region and Ciechanowski, who is concerned and on their behalf expresses his disapproval of how the government, of course the previous government, plans to create centres for foreigners using tendering procedures that ignore the role and voice of local governments... Issues such as the inclusion of foreign cultural and social persons in local communities can significantly disrupt the social, economic and cultural ties of these communities and, in our view, should be consulted with the local government and community. In this context, the concern expressed by the association of the municipalities of the Płock region and Ciechanowski, I ask the Minister: How does the government plan to create centres for foreigners and will it take into account the voice of local authorities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u104	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Bożena Kaminska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In the last two decades, Polish-Russian relations have been the most emotional area in Poland's foreign and security policy. The crisis and conflict in Ukraine, Russia's support of pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine and Russia's presence in the civil war in Syria poses a major threat to Poland's security. What role will Russia have, Minister, in Poland's security policy in the rule of law and justice? Should Russia be seen as an enemy, a rival, or a difficult partner in our country's security policy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u106	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Robert Telus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, in the election campaign, many different numbers fell, the previous government signed an agreement... [[Numbers, numbers...]] Numbers. I don't really know what the number of people in these signed agreements is to this day. I don't want to use the word "amount," because I don't like that word that's used, because it's about people. How many people are in these agreements? If these agreements are signed, can we withdraw? All the more so because we know that other countries have withdrawn, like Denmark. And we know that the European Union has failed to fulfil certain conditions which were signed in these agreements. And if we can no longer withdraw and this is the amount, is it the number of people who do not pose any threat to Poland, should we not accept people who are culturally close to us? Because we know that certain cultures are far away in Poland. And we know that Christians are fighting in Syria, and we know that Christians are losing their lives there. Shouldn't we just accept those people who are culturally close to us? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u108	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Cimoszewicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u109	That's right. Dear Marshal! Minister! In the beginning, I would like a word with Mr Parda. I don't know if he's still in the O.R. The mockery on the occasion of such an important topic, which is, in total, an unlimited influx of immigrants into Europe, is out of place and insults the seriousness of your mandate. [[Applause]] Minister! The question to you is the media reports that have been coming in since this morning. It concerns the possible use of Polish land armed forces in Syria on the occasion of a possible coalition. I would like to ask you if the government is taking this opportunity at the moment to use our forces, our soldiers, in any possible intervention in Syria. Mr. Marshal! One question: How did it happen that we were developing a list of questions the moment this list was closed after the first question? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u110	I ask for the floor of Mrs Józefina Hrynkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. [[Joseph.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! My first question concerns the following question. In April, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy issued an order on the basis of which workers from five countries of the former Soviet Union are being imported into the needs of the alleged employer. I would like to ask how many such workers have already been brought in, where they are, what they are doing and whether it has something to do with the safety of Poles. The second question and the second question concerns the safety of sanitary water supplied in water supply facilities. Explain: On November 10th, Minister Zembala signed an order to privatize the water control of the people in the waterworks. I would like to ask whether this solution is safe, all the more so since there was almost total privatisation of previously well-equipped health care laboratories between 2008 and 2015. It wasn't just privatized, which I would like to point out, those labs in Podkarpacie, which I fought very hard for and pursued. Is that a safe way to control water? The third issue concerns the issue which my constituents have reported to me in mass, namely the construction of roads without sidewalks by the towns, which threatens the safety of the population. For example, in the municipality of Frysztak in Pułanki, several children died in this way. This practice cannot continue like this. That's the case. also the safety, safety of the weakest ones who have been often endowed with high-speed roads in their localities. I understand these questions are wide open. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u112	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u113	First of all, Mr. Marshal, I'm going to ask the Minister to give me a written reply. I would like to know the final position adopted at the time of Mrs Szydło's accession to the government, the formation of the government, concerning what documents were there, what case, and how you are responding to the criticism of the proposals for the deployment of refugees in the European Union. What kind of action has the Minister taken in this regard when they were taken and what is the reaction of the representatives of the European Union? Secondly, a second group of Poles from Mariupola were brought in. It was prepared by the previous government. The state did not pay any attention or thank you for preparing the whole procedure for bringing the Poles from Mariupola. It was the second transport of Poles from Ukraine after Donbasa and placing them in a center in Rybakki, also excellent for the one prepared by the previous government. On issues still on external affairs, I would like to ask what actions have been taken by the State on the prevention of the expansion of the Islamic State, so that no agents, any situations related to the threat in Poland, will take place. The national case is a modernization of the State Fire Department. For years we have been working for this, as the Members' Firefighters' Team, we have achieved a great deal. There was a previous modernization program, another one is announced. My question is: At what stage is the State Fire Department modernization programme prepared? In what years are you going to make it happen? How will the overtime in the fire department be resolved? And one last question... [[Game in the O.R.]] Please don't disturb me. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And last thing: on Tuesday a meeting took place in Rembertów in the media headquarters of Rydzyk's father, in which Mr Kaczyński, Minister, Father Tadeusz Rydzyk participated. I would like to ask if it was also a security meeting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u114	Please take the floor of Mr Stanisław Five, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask if the government is considering strengthening the Border Guard, strengthening the police, expanding the Internal Security Agency. Does the government intend to strengthen the control of refugee centres? I'm talking about it in the context of an increasing threat. It is important that these centres are protected from infiltration by foreign special forces. We can imagine that there are countries that are interested in destabilising the situation in Poland and other countries of the European Union. In this context, the issue of revision of decisions on small border traffic with the Kaliningrad district arises. The Kaliningrad district is a deeply militarized part of the Russian Federation, and today it is an open gate to the entire European Union. You can imagine that foreign special forces may be interested in installing terrorist groups that will take hostile action, organizing terrorist acts into an account, for example. The Islamic State. We need to take these situations into account and therefore these questions. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u116	Thank you very much, sir. The last vote was made by Mrs Ewa Malik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When, after the tragedy of the terrorist attack in France, various information is read about the effectiveness of the security programs operating in France, the hair is on its head. It seems that the socialist authorities of France were completely disregarding information about terrorist suspects, and they were actually the real perpetrators of the assassination. In the context of the recent tragedy in France, I want to ask the authorities in Poland, the new government, like this new government, how the Minister feels prepared for possible acts of terrorism in Poland. Are we prepared to do so, and do we have proper procedures and sufficient security measures to deal with this situation? Are our intelligence and anti-terrorist services currently sufficiently mobilized and sufficiently equipped at every possible angle to defend the population in Poland in the event of these terrorist acts? What exactly are we going to adopt as a Polish country a strategy relating to the problem of immigrants, whose wave can at any time stand at the Polish borders? Is there already a comprehensive plan to protect the country from acts of hatred by Islamic terrorists, who will probably also soon turn the blade of hatred towards Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u118	Thank you very much, Member. In this we have exhausted the list of Members who have been written down to ask questions. I would therefore ask that the representative of the applicants, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u119	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! From these questions, from this discussion that has been held here, there is one very important message. When it comes to danger, and especially when it comes to the sense of danger, the sense of danger can appear in many areas. Most often in human minds this is the first threat, or threat of a terrorist nature. Terror refers to fear, fear, hatred, and feelings that actually cause helplessness. Based on the information you gave to the Minister, it seems that in this part we may be reassured. But these threats, the sense of danger, or the real threat itself, are also a dimension related to terrorism, but in electronic space, the Internet, and thus what is related to possible cyberterrorism activities. This sense of danger or threat certainly also takes on a purely social, purely economic dimension, so we should also consider this in this debate today or in future debates. But also this sense of danger from the point of view of culture is also a sense of danger when it comes to the functioning of us as Poles, as Christians, as Catholics, as representatives of a particular civilization, so it is a threat in the cultural dimension. I'm talking about the threat, and I'm talking about feeling the danger. Why am I pointing to these different dimensions of the threat here? Not to fall into the Belgian tone, but to respond to what Mrs Skowronski said. Minister, last year we heard the so-called. tapes of truth Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz's statement, which clearly stated that the state exists only theoretically. And speaking of the theoretical dimension of the state's existence, it just pointed to the lack of these relationships, the correlation between these spaces, those areas of danger that I mentioned here. Therefore, thanking the Minister for his comprehensive statement on this situation, namely the security of Poland in the context of the international situation, at the same time I would ask you to respond to the moment at which you found yourself in the Minister and in the new government, namely the reconstruction of the institutions of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u120	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Minister of Interior and Administration of Mr Mariusz Błaszczak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for your questions. Most of them were substantive, and there were several political trips. Of course, we will answer all questions in detail in writing. I will start with Mrs Skowronska's attack. [[And what kind of attack is that, Minister?]] It was possible to get the impression that Mrs Skowrońska forgot that for 8 years it was the Polish PSL coalition that ruled Poland. [[But I haven't forgotten.]] In fact, 149 of our compatriots from Mariupola landed in Malbork. I'll remind you because you probably don't remember how... [[I remember.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u122	Excuse me, Minister. Madam President, please allow the Minister to... [[Marshal, the Minister's statement that I don't remember is insinuation. You're welcome, Minister...]] [[But you can't do that.]] I would very much like to ask you to take your seat and give you the opportunity to answer calmly, and to answer your question as well... [[The Minister with class should behave.]] ...Mr. Minister. Member, please take your place. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: Let me remind you, Madam President, how many difficulties it has been for your government to bring in Poles at risk of war, because there is a war in Mariupol. How many difficulties this has caused. And probably if it weren't for public opinion, our people wouldn't have returned to our country to this day. But I will tell you more - that the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will submit a bill identical to the civil project submitted at one time by the citizens of our country represented by the son of the dead. Mr. Marshal Płażyński, who was frozen by the PO-PSL coalition. [[Applause]] For 8 years this project has been laid, not adopted, and this project is intended to serve so that our countrymen can return to Poland. We will submit such a proposal and I am convinced that the High House will adopt such a bill. I ask you, as regards the details of migrants, refugees, it must be made clear that most of these people who are coming to the countries of the European Union are not refugees. Refugees are when they are in camps in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey. In contrast, many of those who storm or storm, for example, the Hungarian-Serbian border, are people who are not refugees. So we judge, we maintain a negative assessment of the decision of the previous government, the government of the PO-PSL coalition, breaking the solidarity of the Visegrad Group, the decision to agree to the adoption of 7,000. refugees. This is a decision whose consequences are very bad, but this decision is the law in force. Denmark has indeed changed its decision, but Denmark is in a different legal situation. When entering the European Union, Denmark negotiated an exemption for these provisions. I said in my speech that we are undertaking analyses in view of the possibility of a possible change of the European Union's decision. At a meeting with the ministers of the internal affairs of the European Union, which took place on 20 November this year, I spoke with my counterparts from the Visegrad Group. There, the assessment of the decision of the PO-PSL coalition government was clearly negative, unambiguously negative. Moreover, Robert Kaliniak, Minister of the Interior of the Slovak Republic, announced that Slovakia would file a complaint with the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg for this decision. I have emphasized this many times and it will be so that we will always be guided by the security of Poland and Poles. We will not make any decision that would put our country in danger. And after what happened in Paris, you can see that the terrorist threat is a fact in Europe. Hence our actions, hence our meetings, the Government Security Centre, the Anti-Terrorism Centre of the Internal Security Agency, recommendations to the services regarding ensuring the security of our citizens, hence our efforts to avoid these threats, as far as possible of course. Training because there was a specific question, and the security industry. Yes, such training takes place and I think this is a very good direction. As far as information on Polish citizens involved in terrorist activities is concerned, such information is available to the Internal Security Agency, but this is, as you know perfectly well, classified information. Mr Sosnowski asked about the police's actions. Indeed, that was the case. I'm judging, and I think you're gonna share that assessment, too, that's evidence of police activity. It is very good that such actions are being taken and that the police are effective. The grants for refugees from the European Union budget are one-off, flat-rate, so let us be aware of what the PO-PSL coalition government agreed to in September. With regard to uniformed services, please, in agreement with the unions of uniformed services, we will make a thorough assessment of the current solutions and work together to develop an optimal model for this matter. We're in touch, talking to social partners unlike our predecessors. [[No, you don't, Minister.]] [[Ma'am, you're gonna calm down.]] Madam President, once again, I ask that you make it possible for you to respond calmly to the Minister. I understand that the Commissioner's emotions are being shared, but I ask you very much... [[No, I don't like lies.]] Member, once again, I call you back to order. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: And there's a fundamental issue about the modernization program for uniformed services. Such a programme was introduced during the rule of law and justice in 2007, covering all uniformed services. In recent years, we have called for such a new programme to be formulated, unfortunately, despite the previous government's declaration, no action has been taken. But we're preparing a program like this. We believe that modernization of uniformed services is a simple road leading to increased security in our country, to a sense of citizens' security, and that is our primary task. This will be one of the priority actions of the Ministry of Interior and Administration under my direction. There was also a question about the international events that will take place in our country next year. Indeed, both the World Youth Days and the summit of the North Atlantic Pact are events that we will prepare carefully in order to ensure the safety of participants in these meetings. Especially important is the meeting with the Holy Father Francis because of the huge group of young people who will come to Poland. This is a challenge, but I am convinced that the security services will be up to their task. Well, I was talking about cooperation, also international cooperation, about information that is transmitted between the Polish special services and the special services of the European Union countries. Of course, this exchange is extremely important. Robert Telus also mentioned the closeness of cultural refugees, some part of them, to a group of refugees. Indeed, this should also be our guide to help those who need it. In addition, at an additional meeting of the Polish Sejm on 16 September this year, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński He also made it clear that the model we should adopt was to support those who really need help, those who are victims of war in the Middle East. Ladies and gentlemen, the rest of the questions will be answered in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that under Art. Paragraph 184. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska asked for the floor. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with this article, the Marshal gives the floor outside the agenda of the sitting or in connection with the discussion only for the submission of a formal request or, note, the correction of a misunderstood or inaccurate statement made by the speaker. Madam President, if you wish to make a statement - I am sorry, Mrs President - I kindly inform you that the next item of today's sitting is the point: the parliamentary statements. So please, in accordance with the article. Paragraph 184. 1 was indeed a correction if you think you have been misunderstood. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u123	Dear Marshal, I know the rules of the Sejm better than the marshal... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] ...as from 2001 I was a member of the Rules of Procedure and the Posts when we laid down the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u124	That's why I'm counting on you to make a corrigendum according to the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u125	I would now ask your marshal if the marshal gave me the floor so that the marshal would not interrupt my speech. [[The voice from the room: Oh, sure.]] I'd like to ask... I'm taking the floor in corrigendum mode. Unfortunately, the Minister misunderstood my statement. Firstly, the Minister did not indicate any information, he did not provide any information concerning the removal of Poles from the East, from Mariupola, prepared by the previous government. In no way did the Minister answer, and he tried to insinuate that the previous government had not held meetings with the trade unions of the various services that are now subordinate to the Minister. We are well aware of these statements, and we also met with trade unionists who held meetings with the Minister of the Interior. Furthermore, the Minister did not provide any information about the position of the Polish government which you adopted on refugees. We understand perfectly: immigrants to the labour market and refugees. Minister, you cannot tell any of the Members in this Chamber that I do not remember. You don't know what I remember, and you're insinuating. So I want to assure you that I remember. I know perfectly well the model of getting Poles out of Donbass, Poles out of Mariupola and all the related issues were prepared by the previous team. I also want to say... [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: What about the law, Mrs Błaszczak?]] We were working on it. There was no consensus... [[Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: There was no majority?]] ...but is the Minister convinced that you have all the information you once reported? [[Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration Mariusz Błaszczak: This is not us, it is Poles...]] I think that in the case of refugees, in the case of repatriates, in the case of Poles from the East, we will implement this programme if you prepare a good thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And on such matters as President Duda, Mr Szczerski, once did, do not insult the Members. My sensitivity in this matter is great, honesty, integrity and honesty, and therefore Mr President's accusations against the previous government and I do not accept us, and in this respect we deserve an apology. [[I'm not surprised. The bill...]] Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal, I corrected it. [[But it wasn't a corrigendum. You may know the rules, but you don't apply them.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u126	You're welcome, my fellow Member. I shall inform the High House that also under Article. Paragraph 184. 1, i.e. correction, Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, the Polish People's Party, came forward. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u127	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, Believe me, my correction really comes from good faith. Well, I share your view that these police activities are evidence of its professionalism, but I was more interested in whether, on the basis of the information that the Ministry has, there is a conclusion that there is some connection between these events and the action of Islamist terrorist groups. Please understand my intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u128	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Therefore, the Minister's statement concludes this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Events taking place a few days ago in Paris caused Europeans, including Poles, to fear terrorist threats again. It is a fear that is fully justified and accompanying modern societies almost continually. For a long time, the bloody attacks that have occurred in recent years have remained in memory. At times, however, fear grows much stronger, causing a lack of security in one's own country, in one's own home. Unfortunately, in the current situation, the threat really exists. The actions carried out by the Islamic State prove that terrorist organisations can act very effectively and on a large scale. The issue of terrorist activities is also linked to the long-standing migration crisis. It is becoming a growing problem and a threat for Europe every day. A few months ago, the Old Continent made decisions to help tens of thousands of refugees coming to us from Asia and Africa. Even then, the harmful effects of overly far-reaching and reckless support could be predicted. Today we see it clearly. The majority of refugees arriving in Europe are Muslims. It can therefore be expected that some of them will identify with fanatical assumptions of jihad. A few of these people are enough to destabilize the situation in the country and create fear among society. However, despite the lack of specific factors and indications in favour of a direct terrorist threat, we cannot identify today as peaceful and safe. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the following questions: 1. How will Poland's policy be shaped towards refugees arriving in Europe? 2. Is Poland prepared for possible terrorist attacks?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u130	That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 2nd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members who have been made to make statements to be closed. Mr Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, was the first to make a statement. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In my statement I would like to thank all voters from this point of view for their support and confidence in the Law and Justice, especially those who voted for my candidacy in the elections to the Polish Parliament. I am honored that thanks to you, I can continue to serve this honorable and responsible service to our homeland. It is a great honour for me, and at the same time a commitment to Poland and all Poles. I would therefore like to assure you that I will do my utmost to ensure that the MP is actively, openly and with the voice of the public. [[Applause]] I will also do my utmost to meet your expectations for the development of our country, and I will not fail as part of the mandate of social trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, is the next objective of making a statement. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! November 26th this year We celebrate the 102nd anniversary of the birth of Łukasz Ciepliński, nickname Plow, lieutenant colonel of the Polish Army, soldier of the White Eagle Organization, Union of Armed Forces - National Army, President of the 4th Board of the General Association of Freedom and Independence. Łukasz Ciepliński was born on 26 November 1913 in Kwilcz. His parents Franciszek and Maria from Kaczmarków owned a bakery and a colonial shop. After graduating from the general school, Ciepliński joined the Cadet Corps in Rawicz. Since 1934, he has served professionally in the Polish Army. After passing the maturity exam, he joined the School of Podchożych Piechota in Ostrów Mazowiecka - Komorów, which he graduated as a lieutenant. Then he served in 62. Infantry regiment in Bydgoszcz. After the outbreak of World War II, Ciepliński participated in the September campaign, acting as commander of the anti-tank company. He fought in the battle of Bzura. In the battles at Witkowice, six German tanks and two command cars were destroyed from the anti-tank site. He was rewarded with the Order of Virtuti Militari and promoted to lieutenant. He also participated in the defence of Warsaw. Since 1940 Łukasz Ciepliński has been associated with a conspiracy operating in the Rzeszów region. He was appointed the commandant of the Rzeszów District of the White Eagle Organization. After joining the Ciepliński Armed Fighting Union, he became the commandant of the ZWZ-AK Rzeszów Circuit. From April of the following year he served as the commander of the District Inspector of the ZWZ-AK Rzeszów. He took part in combat actions in the Rzeszów, Dębica and Kolbuszów districts. His activities contributed to the organization of intelligence and counterintelligence structures or to the creation of a underground weapons factory. He took part in the fight for the Reichs against the occupation troops. After the end of the war, Łukasz Ciepliński joined the underground of independence and anti-communistism. He was a member of the Association of Freedom and Independence. In January 1947, he headed the 4th Executive Board of the General Association of Freedom and Independence. At the end of November of the same year, he was arrested by Security Office officers. For three years he was subjected to a brutal investigation supervised by the NKVD. He was held in a mokotsky prison. On 14 October 1950, the court sentenced Łukasz Ciepliński to five times the death penalty, the loss of public and civil rights of honor forever and the loss of all property. The judgment was upheld by a higher court. President Bolesław Bierut did not take advantage of the law of grace. The judgment was executed on 1 March 1951. Other members of the 4th General Board of the Association of Freedom and Independence were executed together with Cieplinski. The burial site of Łukasz Ciepliński remains unknown to this day. In 2013, he was posthumously promoted to colonel on the National Day of Remembrance of Cursed Soldiers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-26-sejm-02-2.u134	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. This concludes the 2nd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The deadline and agenda for the 3rd session of the Sejm will be communicated to the Members at a later date. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 12 min 14]]
