ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to appoint Mr Kinga Gajewska, Ms Katarzyna Osos, Mr Daniel Milewski and Mr Piotr Olszówka as secretaries of today's proceedings. Members Daniel Milewski and Piotr Olszówka will be present in the first part of the session. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Daniel Milewski and Kinga Gajewska. I consider the minutes of the 5th session of the Sejm to be adopted in the absence of objections. The group of Members submitted a draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of the oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. The project is print number 137. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The formal proposal was made by Marshal Joachim Brudziński. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u2	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, please take three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u3	Maybe five minutes, Marshal. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u4	Thank you for the mercy of the Marshal's heart. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u5	I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 08 hours 14 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. Once again I will inform the High House about the draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of the oath taken by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, who submitted a group of Members. The project is print number 137. After obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. A group of Members presented a draft law amending the Act amending the Act on personal income tax. The project is print number 136. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted three reports on draft laws: - amending the Energy Efficiency Act, - amending the Act on social security for farmers and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law on government departments and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in Nos 125, 127 and 130 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The applicants withdrew the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 with the Year of Adam Chmielowski. The item on the agenda for its consideration has therefore become obsolete. The Education, Science and Youth Committee submitted a report on the draft law on the Integrated Qualifications System. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Bureau of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm should listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the reports on the draft anniversary resolutions in prints 58, 59, 98 and 99. The Sejm Bureau also proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention accepted the proposal of the Sejm Bureau to consider at its meeting the current information on the forthcoming reform of the health system from the perspective of the future of the National Health Fund, which was requested by the Kukiz Club.15 The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. Before reading the messages, I would like to inform you that Members have come forward with formal proposals. Mr Andrzej Halicki, Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What it looks like to respect the opposition, you have proved to the marshal by imposing a financial penalty on a Member who has exceeded his speech by 30 seconds. [[Applause]] That's not something to be proud of. It's more of a disgrace, Mr. Marshal. On the other hand, we are also dealing with actions that may also be an attempt to choke the opposition's voice, e.g. during the manifestation. Saturday 19th... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] On Saturday, 19 December, the Mazowieckie voivode ordered a solution to the manifestation that took place before the Sejm, quite vaguely arguing its decision. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 I ask for the Senior Convention, to supplement the agenda and to explain what actions have been taken by the government, the Minister of Home Affairs, the police, the BOR or the prosecutor's office to catch a possible wit, if this was indeed a false alarm, and whether the perpetrator was targeted. [[Voice from the O.R.: The prosecution is independent.]] The prosecution is independent, but I hope that the government is effective and will explain this confusion and attempt to strangle the opposition on 19 December. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u7	Mr President, I am informing the Member and the High House that this is not a formal proposal once again. [[Okay, here's what I'm gonna do.]] I would like to inform you that this article that you are referring to... [[That's what I'm putting in writing for the next meeting.]] Applications for supplementing the agenda may be submitted by clubs, circles and groups of at least 15 Members, presenting them to the Marshal of the Sejm in writing by noon. 21 the previous day. [[Applause]] [[How about tomorrow?]] Mr President, please send this letter to the secretariat. But I warn you, first of all, please invoke... No, it's not a formal motion, so I don't accept the objection. This is an abuse by Mr Halicki of his speech. So I'm informing you, first of all, I expect... [[Two and a half thousand. zł...]] ...to refer to an article, which is a request, and then to a justification. There you go, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u8	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Art. Paragraph 184. Point 3 (1). I move that the session be adjourned, that you convene a Marshal of the Sejm Bureau and invite the bureau of the Legislative Commission to clarify the unprecedented violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm during the deliberations of the Legislative Committee. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal probably doesn't know, because if he knew, I think he would never have allowed amendments to be tabled at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, clearly contrary to the opinions of the Legislative Bureau, with the silence of the new Director of the Sejm Analysis Office, which were not the subject of the High House's deliberations on Thursday. Of course, it concerns the Constitutional Court, which is the primary enemy at the moment of the parliamentary majority, and the amendments which have been tabled, Mr Marshal, the High Izbo, are de facto about judicial independence. Unfortunately, the applicant country did not have the courage to include such records in the draft in print 122. At the moment, one of your messengers, supposedly a professor... [[Pfft...]] ...has tabled amendments that go beyond the scope. I'm sure your marshal's intervention is needed because at hours. 2.30 p.m. is to resume the meeting of the Legislative Commission. Marshal, for the first time since I remember in the history of the Legislative Commission, the Sejm Analysis Office, which is set up to help Members, is silent about these amendments, clearly unconstitutional. Majority waltz [[♪ The bell ♪]] It flies without listening to the Legislative Bureau. Mr. Marshal, I ask for a break, a meeting of the Bureau and an invitation from the Bureau of the Legislative Commission to come to you to clarify this situation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u9	Thank you. Mr President, and I would like to ask your fellow Members again for information - this is another speech by the Member, which I cannot accept as a formal proposal. [[Why?]] Why? Yes, the first part of this proposal: request, request for a break, to interrupt specifically, i.e. point 1 (1). 3. But please note that these formal requests can be made in the context of the mouth. 2 of that Article. 184, which reads: Formal applications may relate only to matters on the agenda and to the proceedings of the Sejm. Not the committee. [[That's what's right.]] [[It's okay.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to draw your attention... [[Please pay attention at last.]] ...that this is, in my opinion, an attempt to delay the work of the Sejm at this moment. And these aren't formal conclusions... [[But it's okay.]] ...I'm paying attention. [[That confirms the marshal that it's okay.]] Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Platform Club, with a formal request. [[Voice from the room: Did you pay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u10	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I wanted to make a request to interrupt the sitting and to convene the Sejm Bureau to discuss the statements of one of the Members, Mr Stanisław Pieta. Mr Stanisław Pięta wrote: If a public servant gets involved...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u11	Mr, Mr, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u12	... The Great Orchestra of Christmas Help, have her report for discharge the next day.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u13	Mr... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u14	Dear Marshal, this is a threat... [[The Marshal shuts down the microphone for Mr Michal Szczerbie]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u15	Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are not again on the point: a formal proposal. [[Punishment again? He's not gonna make it.]] I just told Mr Boris Budka and you are in the same mode. I remind you of your lips. Two are the conclusions... [[Financial punishment!]] ...which may involve... [[Kara!]] ...the subject of the agenda only. That's why I need you to leave the platform. I cannot accept this proposal as a formal proposal. [[Voice from the room: Leave it, leave it!]] Mr Janusz Sanocki, Member of the non-member... [[Another punishment? I don't know what they can do to you anymore.]] ...with a formal application. [[Game in the O.R.]] It's just, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr... [[Mr Janusz Sanocki enters the podium with a bag]] [[A formal conclusion?]] ...I would ask... [[Oh, he's good.]] ...about the formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u16	Mr. Marshal! I have a formal motion that you introduce the marshal here, in this courtroom, to break through the plate. I brought...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u17	No, no, sir...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u18	... 460 Nysa petals for each...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u19	Mr President, listen to me. You abuse my kindness, and please do not speak out on matters that concern other fundamental matters concerning faith, concerning Christian values, so that you do not abuse it here. It's not a formal conclusion. [[Applause]] So please leave the platform, including this bag, very interesting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u20	Mr. Marshal, I did not refer to faith or Christian values.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u21	Mr President, I draw your attention. [[Tomorrow's the fee!]] Please leave the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u22	I'm gonna... [[The Marshal shuts down the microphone by Janusz Sanocki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u23	Mr... [[Voice from the room: Kara!]] [[Janusz Sanocki distributes the fees to Members]] [[And the holy ones, at least?]] Still with a formal application - I understand, already in fact, a formal application - Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, a modern club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I hope I can meet your Marshal's expectations. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I request that the Sejm be adjourned until 7 January. Reason... [[Applause, bustle in the hall]] Next year. [[The justification is laziness.]] [[Buy-out vacations?]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, I listened to your exposé on TVN24. [[Reason: limitless laziness.]] You keep saying, "We listen, we listen to people's voices." Where were you on Saturday when thousands of people showed up against what you were doing? Where have you been? Are you listening only to the followers of the PiS? Wouldn't it be worth listening sometimes to people who are not politically motivated, but go out of their hearts out into the street. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Nobody pulled them out. I was at the demonstration not because I organized it, just because I was invited to it. There's a difference. Ladies and gentlemen, since you are simply out of control, especially the PiS, you are no longer in control of this mess that you have funded... What's on the Legislative Committee today is just a scandal. [[Applause]] We're working on a bill that's completely different from the first reading. Such amendments are made, which change the shape of this law at all. The Prime Minister told us she gave us Saturday and Sunday to read it. We've been reading, just not the one we're working on today. [[Applause]] Prime Minister, you don't even know what they're doing here. It'd be good to think about it. I maintain my request for adjournment and adjourn until 7 January next year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u25	I must tell the Member that, in fact, this is highly questionable in the context of his mouth. 2, [[Joy in the Chamber]] I want this proposal to be about the current... [[To support a request for a break.]] ...meetings, but I will decide to put this formal motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. [[May I, Marshal?]] A motion against it? There you go, Mrs Ewa Tomaszewska, with a proposal against.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make you aware of the seriousness of such decisions. If we decide to postpone the session to the next year, we will lose PLN 2068 million due to the failure to adopt the Act on the Integrated Qualifications System. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u27	Thank you very much. There's a vote against it. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting until 7 January 2016 will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[Voice from the room: No class!]] [[Voice from the room: Two billion.]] [[We lose, we don't lose...]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 390 Members voted. 153 Members voted against - 232 MEPs, with five abstentions. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk also with a formal request? [[But it's already been voted out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! I wanted to make a motion against Mr Budki's voice...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u29	But no, sir, it's... [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u30	But since he's been voted out, I move that we move on to the agenda. Mr Boris Budka, do not mislead the public. We work in the Legislative Commission, everything is legal, and please don't disturb us because we want to clean up after you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We want to clean up the mess you've caused. [[Mr. Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Kara, Mr. Marshal!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u31	Mr President, the move to the agenda - this is the correct formal proposal. At the moment, I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u32	The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - Parliamentary Team for Supporting Entrepreneurship and Economic Patriotism - h.m. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Kresów, Kresowian and the Heritage of Eastern Lands of the Old Republic - hour. 17. I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Senior policy - h.m. 3:30. The Marshal of the Sejm kindly invites you to a fee meeting of parliamentarians with the participation of His Eminence Cardinal Kazimierz Nycz, which will be held on 22 December this year. at 3 p.m. 1:30 in the main hall.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u33	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles (prints Nos 84 and 114). The Rule shall have the floor of Mr Arthur in order to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u34	Mr. Marshal! Minister! [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] High Izbo! I was honoured to present a report to the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. The project aims to implement European Union law. This project concerns the elimination of the possibility of obtaining a category driving licence And at the age of 18, by fire department officers carrying out motorbike activities and supplementing the definition of the applicant's place of residence. The following amendment was adopted at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee at the request of the Legislative Office: Article. 1 in point 2 in the amended Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 5 in the introductory sentence, the words "place of residence' shall be replaced by "place of residence'. The Commission proposes that the report be adopted by the High Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Joachim Brudziński]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u35	I would like to ask all your parliamentarians to attend the meetings of the committee responsible to leave the Chamber and allow the deliberations to be held in an orderly manner. Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I ask the floor of Małgorzata Chmiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u36	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a statement on the draft law amending the Act on Vehicle Managers. The draft was carefully discussed by the rapporteur. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law amending the Act on driving vehicles is important and necessary due to the alignment of the provisions of the Act on driving vehicles with the provisions of Directive 2006/126 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on driving licences in connection with the European Commission's reasoned opinion - shortcomings No 214/2080 on incorrect implementation into Polish law of two provisions of this Directive. In conclusion, the current law contains provisions which are not in line with the opinion of the European Commission, giving the possibility to apply for a motorcycle licence to fire department officers aged 18. In the Act amending the law, this entry is deleted and the fire department officers will have to be as old as the average citizen, 24 years old in this case. The Act continues to provide that police officers and border guards may, when they are 18 years old, apply for a motorcycle licence due to their duties. Step 2. The second amendment concerns the extension of the concept of residence in Poland of a person applying for a driving licence. The current regulations ordered such a person to reside in Poland for at least 185 days a year. Currently, the Act on the amendment of the Act adds provisions which do not require that it stays in Poland as long as 185 days a year, provided that it is in other EU Member States for professional purposes, in order to study or because of the fulfilment of tasks of a certain duration in another Member State of the European Union. In view of the need for these changes, the above-mentioned amendments are necessary. Draft Parliamentary Club Act The Civic Platform welcomes the draft law submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u37	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Peter King, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the Act on driving vehicles, which is due to the need to adapt the provisions of this law to the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament in connection with the European Commission's reasoned opinions, i.e. deficiencies in the incorrect implementation of two provisions of the Directive by the PO-PSL government into Polish law. The Act on Driving Vehicles specifies that the category driving licence And at the age of 18, he will be able to obtain an officer of the State Fire Service who is doing business on a motorcycle. However, this provision was treated by the legislator as an exception to the rule laid down in the Directive on driving licences 2006/126 allowing the holders of civil protection activities to obtain a driving licence in advance. The European Commission disagreed with this approach and pointed out that this was inappropriate. In view of the above, this provision of the Act should be amended. The second challenged provision is a provision laying down the rules for determining the place of residence necessary for the issue of a driving licence - Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (5). The European Commission has pointed out that the current wording of this Article does not fully reflect the provisions of the Directive and, in particular, that the second part of the provision of the Directive is not included in that provision, which states that, in the case of a person who is professionally associated with a place other than that with whom he or she has personal ties, and therefore who lives consecutively in different places in at least two Member States, the place of residence is considered to be the place with which he or she has a personal relationship, provided that he or she regularly returns to it. It should be pointed out that these provisions have not been implemented in a direct, literal manner, but under the other national provisions for many years this provision has been applied in accordance with the provisions and spirit of the Directive. The explanations given in this respect by the previous government did not convince the European Commission, and therefore there is a need to implement this change as well. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u39	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u40	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on amendments to the vehicle management law. The proposed amendments to this law aim at adapting the provisions of the Act under consideration to the guidelines of Directive 2006/126 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on the issue of driving licences. These changes are due to an opinion issued by the European Commission on the incorrect implementation of two provisions of this Directive into Polish law. To this end, an amendment has been made, which amends inter alia. the minimum age necessary to obtain driving rights. This is how age is determined: in the case of category A for police officers and Border Guards, he is 18 years old, category C for State Fire Department officers, Police, Border Guard and BOR - 19 years old and category D for State Fire Department officers, Police, Border Guard officers and BOR - 21 years old. These amendments adapt our provisions to the requirements of the directive and eliminate irregularities. The second important element of the amendment relating to the incorrect implementation or incorrect implementation by the European Commission is the principle of determining the place of residence necessary for the issue of a driving licence. As a result of the revision of the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 5 will now provide that the holder of a driving licence, in addition to the existing conditions, i.e. reaching the appropriate age, obtaining a medical certificate, holding training and passing a public examination, will have to meet several conditions and these conditions extend the possibility of receiving that document. To date, he had to reside in the Polish Republic for a minimum of 185 days in the calendar year and because of his personal and professional ties or with the intention of permanent residence solely because of his personal ties. There are now three further points, i.e. a person who is regularly staying in the territory of the Republic of Poland because of his personal ties, and at the same time because of his professional ties he is in at least two Member States of the European Union, he is irregularly staying in the territory of the Republic of Poland because of his personal ties, because he is staying in another Member State of the European Union in order to carry out a task of a certain duration or stays in another country because of his studies or schooling in that country. Basically, the changes presented concern only a certain group, they concern police officers, fire department, BOR and Border Guard - here it is a change of age which entitles you to obtain a particular category of driving licence - and they extend the possibility of obtaining a driving licence by persons who are irregularly resident in Poland. According to the available data, the amendment does not lead to any complications in the current process of obtaining different categories of driving licence in these services, there are currently no known cases of making these categories or the duration of the acquisition process, while at the same time adapting the rules to the standards adopted in the European Union, thus being an element required and as acceptable as possible. In summary, with a view to the necessity of introducing the amendments in question in order to bring the rules into line with the requirements of the EU Directive, our club supports changes in its entirety and we will vote in favour of these changes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u41	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u42	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the club Moderna on the Act amending the Act on vehicle managers after first reading in committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending the Act is the result of the need to bring the provisions of the Act into line with the provisions of Directive 2006/126/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 December 2006 on driving licences. This proposal has emerged as a result of a reasoned opinion by the European Commission on the incorrect implementation of two provisions of the Directive, which I mentioned earlier, into Polish law. As a result of the entry into force of the proposed project, two provisions will be amended. Firstly, as regards the minimum age required for each category of driving licence for certain driving groups and, secondly, for the rules on determining the place of residence necessary for issuing the driving licence. And so required minimum age for driving the vehicles specified in the category driving licence And for officers driving police vehicles and border guards, it's going to be 18 years. The minimum age required to drive vehicles specified in category C driving licence for officers driving vehicles of the State Fire Department, Police, Border Guard and Government Protection Office will be 19 years. Finally, the minimum age required to drive vehicles specified in category D driving licences for officers driving vehicles of the State Fire Department, Police, Border Guard and Government Protection Office will be 21 years. These changes mean that the State Fire Department officers will lose their ability to drive vehicles specified in the category driving licence. A at the age of 18, while officials of the Government Protection Office will be able to drive vehicles as defined in category C driving licence at the age of 19 and to drive vehicles as defined in category D driving licence at the age of 21. It appears from the information provided by the applicants that no entitlement to drive category A vehicles for firefighters has been issued and that, according to the information available, there are no persons who are in the process of applying for the right to drive in question. It is therefore not necessary to request a transitional period for the provisions in question. As I mentioned earlier, the project also introduces changes to the rules on determining the place of residence necessary for the issue of a driving licence - and this is more interesting. In view of the requirements of the European Commission, account should be taken of Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 5 of the Act on driving vehicles, the second part of the provision of the Directive as presented by the applicants. In turn, it should be mentioned here that the applicant's representative informed the High House that, despite the application of this provision for many years in line with the provisions and the spirit of the Directive, the explanations presented in this regard have not, however, convinced the European Commission. I am not surprised, because in the assessment of our club the proposed change is more beneficial for Polish citizens. The new wording will allow, for example, students staying during their studies for most part of the year abroad pass their driving test in Poland, as well as employees staying abroad on contracts. Thus, thanks to the European Commission, Poles will get a better and more friendly law than what has been in force so far. Therefore, the Modern Posel Club is pleased to propose that the bill be passed in the proposed wording. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u43	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taking up the work and launching the legislative process on amending the Act on Drivers, as stated in my previous speakers from parliamentary clubs and, above all, the rapporteur, is due to the need for the necessary and necessary adaptation of our legislation to the relevant provisions, regulations and regulations in the European Union at that time. Let me not speak from the beginning and discuss these two issues that have been raised. They have been carefully discussed, analysed. Our club agrees with those statements. I believe that it will be a good thing for us to adopt this proposal for an amendment, this issue that regulates these two areas that are not defined or otherwise specified. After proper justification, which has not gained favor, we will have harmonised records. So as a club, we will support and vote in favour of the draft amendment to the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u45	Thank you very much, sir. The question was raised by Edward Sulphur, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u46	Mr. Marshal! Minister!
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u47	I'm sorry. I'm setting time for questioning -- two minutes. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u48	Yes, thank you very much. My statement is related to a matter which has already been consulted on the adoption of this amendment. Namely, it concerns drivers of voluntary firefighters. Because in these records we have such wordings that define age limits for drivers of the State Fire Service, the Police, the Border Guard and the BOR officers, it seemed that naturally it should also be here, in this record, to determine the age of drivers of voluntary fire services. However, during the discussion I had with the Sejm Legislative Office, it turned out that, for a good cause, the driving licence for those driving favored vehicles at the TSO is issued on a general basis. Nevertheless, I wanted to make this point clear to the end so that we would not meet with such a situation that, after this entry into force, it would appear that the drivers of the voluntary fire department would have a problem with acquiring the right to drive privileged vehicles. In general, it would be good for all such projects that touch on this issue to include services to be examined not only in the Committee on Infrastructure but also in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. Then we would avoid any additional complications that have happened to us in the past when the Committee on Infrastructure adopted them, and professionals dealing with the issue of service powers later suddenly find out that there are rules that need to be detailed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like this issue of the powers of the drivers of the TSOs to be settled in the end, because we know that they acquire these powers on a general basis, but that it is really the case to the end... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u49	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction of Minister Tomasz Żuchowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u50	High Izbo! Dear Messengers, Gentlemen! This issue raised by the Member is, I think, very well founded and worthy of consideration, especially as at this point in time the directive does not put the issue of distinction or does not prohibit the recognition of voluntary firefighters in this respect or at this point in time the officers of these guards, positioning them among professional firefighters. Therefore, I think that this issue may be the subject of an addition or a possible decision at the level of the law in order to clearly indicate those conditions and principles on the basis of which members of voluntary firefighters will also be able to acquire appropriate powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u51	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the Arthur Rules of Procedure committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! After listening to this interesting discussion, from which we learned all the details related to the bill's draft amendment, I submit, as I said at the outset, to adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u53	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and certain other laws (prints 121 and 127). I ask Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the report in print No 127 on the draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and certain other laws contained in print No 121. Mr Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the relevant article of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, sent on 15 December this year. the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The first reading and examination of the draft law took place at the meeting on 16 December. The applicants of this law stressed the need to make it more flexible to appoint and dismiss persons for managerial functions in institutions under the Ministry of Agriculture that operate agriculture. The supervision of subordinate or supervised entities by the Minister for Agriculture, the Minister for Rural Development and the Minister for Agricultural Markets are also expected to be strengthened. This is particularly important for the implementation, also announced by Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel, of the plans to combine inspections responsible for official food safety oversight into one organism, in order to simplify this administratively and reduce the various costs associated with the checks for which these inspections are responsible, as well as the establishment of rural development agencies from the merger of the three existing agricultural agencies and public agricultural advice, so that all the tools that the State can have in the field of rural aid are in one institution. The applicants introduced a number of amendments during the examination of this project, which clarify the criteria for appointments. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u55	Thank you very much, sir. Oh, you guys split up sometime. [[On behalf of the club.]] You're welcome. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Robert Telus will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u56	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present to you the opinion of the Law and Justice Club on the draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws, print No 121. According to the Law and Justice Club, this draft law is very much needed, expected by farmers, also expected by agencies - because we want to make changes in agencies, and above all to combine inspections, to merge agencies. Combining inspections is necessary to ensure that there is one line of quality control of agricultural products, especially agricultural products that are imported from abroad. This is a problem of competence with regard to inspection, which is why we need to establish such an inspection. In order to set up such an inspection, it is necessary to do a good audit in inspections, an audit which will present to us which departments, which organisations must be strengthened, which powers should be presented to which departments. For this, appropriate people are needed to implement this Law and Justice Programme, a programme to combine these inspections. The same is true of the agencies: we want to create one agency from the agencies that are at the moment: Agricultural Property Agency, Agricultural Market Agency, Restructuring Agency and Modernization of Agriculture. We want to combine these agencies so that there is one rural agency so that the farmer knows who is responsible for agriculture in Poland, who is helping farmers in this area. These changes are expected by farmers. We receive such information from farmers, from agricultural chambers, from trade unions operating in agriculture. This programme, which I am presenting to you, has also been strongly consulted with various organisations, with different unions and has full support. In order to implement this programme, so far-reaching changes are needed and the Law and Justice Club will therefore vote in favour of this bill. In a moment, Mr. Marshal, I will put on your hands an amendment that I would like us to discuss in committee and have the High House vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u57	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Wojciech King, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club a position regarding the amendment of the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. It is not easy to express a position on amending the Act on social insurance for farmers, because there is no mention of insurance for farmers in the parliamentary draft of Members of Law and Justice. Rather, it would be more appropriate for applicants to submit a draft law on staff changes. I think that title would be far more accurate. Perhaps even there were some farmers who were happy with this bill - as my previous speaker said - because they paid attention to the title: "Insurance"... and thought that maybe the ruling party had prepared a surprise before Christmas. But let's make a deal: it's not about farmers' insurance, it's about staff changes. Of course, we do not deny you the right to conduct your own staff policy, but I do not think it is necessary to hide this under the slogan of social security for farmers. The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that the proposed amendments aim to make appointments and appeals more flexible. It's interesting what's behind the concept of flexibility. As we can also read in the explanatory memorandum: "As a result of the adoption of the design changes, these posts will be filled without any open and competitive recruitment. Unfortunately, we are anxious to look at this record because we should ask ourselves: What qualifications, experience or education will the new heads of the units mentioned in the bill have? Given the practice we have done so far, we fear that the only criterion will be internship, and this is an internship in Law and Justice. [[It's called competence.]] In view of the practices that we have been able to observe in the media, we would also suggest that the removal of people from occupied posts should take place at certain times, not necessarily at night. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u59	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Kukiz club15 on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. During the first reading of the project, which took place during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Robert Telus justified the need for this law to make a good change, which will serve farmers by establishing efficient agencies and inspections that will serve Poland well. In order to do so, he argued that staff changes are needed to enable efficient transformations in the form of merger of agencies and inspections. The direction of the changes in the merger of agencies and inspections is correct. At present, the number of operators able to carry out controls is too large, inefficient and, by its multitude and number of controls, hampers the work of economic operators. The same applies to a bureaucratic apparatus serving agriculture. It is ineffective, inefficient and incredibly expensive. The merger of Agricultural Property Agency, Agricultural Market Agency and Agricultural Restructuring and Modernisation Agency is therefore a step in the right direction. This solution will reduce costs and simplify various bureaucratic procedures. These problems are widely known to farmers and the changes expected. As a club, we are in favour of the maximum simplification of the law, the care of economic operators and the rational spending of public money, that is, this direction is supported by us. In the explanatory memorandum we can read that the proposed amendments are designed to make the appointment and dismissal of eight institutions subordinate to the Ministry of Agriculture more flexible. As a result of the changes adopted, the filling of posts will take place without open and competitive recruitment, i.e., the Member State of Members, the proposed change is an undemocratic and non-transparent change. However, the form of competitions currently being held requires immediate changes. So far, before the competition is announced, we know who will win the pre-open election procedure. Reading formal terms gives the impression that they are written under a specific person. In addition, in order to ensure that the person in advance wins, the most important stage for winning the procedure is to talk and answer the questions of the committee. In such circumstances, it is a waste of time and public money for the procedure, which so far was only intended to remove responsibility from decision-makers, create appearances of openness and transparency. At this point I would like to remind you one of the points of the Kukiz Change Strategy15. You can, Poland! - the liquidation of political situations in government administration, local government administration and companies of the State Treasury. The level of nepotism and corruption in state and local administration has long exceeded the limits of social tolerance. Each of us can give examples of offices, companies, agencies filled by guys. In order to find a job in the administration or companies of the Treasury, you usually have to belong to a party or know someone from a family. The competence, diligence or integrity of the candidate no longer matters. We live in a country created by parties and for parties. Poland's right state, reason, conscientiousness are basically foreign values to political clans ruling Poland. Our strategy as a Kukiz club15 - we aim to ensure maximum transparency in hiring people in local, central and state Treasury companies. We will ensure clear employment provisions in these institutions. The appropriate procedures will consist in a fair recruitment of individual posts, ranging from directors-general and governors to unskilled workers. We will accept the principle that people with high qualifications, as set out in the criteria prepared by special committees, will be able to apply for specific positions, which are the same for all candidates across the country. These solutions will contribute to the depoliticisation and elimination of party situations, the reduction of political corruption and the achievement of positions by competent persons. We see the need for urgent changes in agriculture, as set out in the explanatory memorandum by the rapporteur. However, we can see how the Treasury companies are currently being filled, whose presidents become presidents. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PiS members, and we don't like this direction. We believe that the presidents of state-owned companies should not be members of the party and that the substantive ones outside the political circle should be members of the party. To sum up, despite the failure to meet our standards by showing confidence, the Kukiz Club will abstain from voting, trusting that the changes described in the form of merger of inspections and agricultural agencies will take place without undue delay and that the selection of new presidents and directors will be carried out with maximum transparency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u61	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mrs. Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed parliamentary draft amendment to the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws is a simple leap to the stools. [[How's that?]] The draft amendment of the law essentially changes the principle of filling in the positions of governors, chief inspectors or directors in the offices concerned by the draft law. Unfortunately, as with the Civil Service Act, the project serves the easier, uncompetition-free filling of posts by the majority of the parliament. This is another example of lowering the standards of Polish senior officials. The draft law concerns the amendment of the appointment and dismissal of the President of the KRUS, the President of the Agricultural Property Agency, the Chief Commercial Quality Inspector of agri-food products, the Chief Plant Protection Officer and his deputies, the Chief Veterinary Officer and his deputies, the President of the Agricultural Market Agency and its deputies, the Directors of the field departments of the agencies and their deputies, the Director of the Agricultural Advisory Centre based in Brwinów and the President of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and its deputies, the Regional Branch Directors and their deputies. These are very important positions in the public administration and I understand that this is why these draft laws are being processed so quickly. In the meantime, please bear in mind that the draft law proposed by you amends the provisions in such a way that these posts are filled without an open and competitive selection in the form of a competition - that is the first basic plea and the second question - without the obligation to publish a call. This record was carefully deleted from previous records. This also means that future candidates will not be verified in any way in terms of competence and knowledge or experience by independent persons. This verification shall be carried out only by the person who refers to the post. To date, these posts consisted of the appointment by the Minister responsible for the field of expertise of a team composed of three persons. [[Z PO.]] The team recommended a maximum of three candidates, taking into account their work experience, experience and skills. According to the proposed bill, he is the Prime Minister, without consulting the expert community, only the Minister, to appoint these people to fill their posts. In all cases listed in the draft law, the prime minister will appoint the persons to the main management positions at the request of the minister responsible for the field concerned. He will also withdraw from these posts, as has been the case so far. However, the requirements for traineeship and experience remain unchanged, fortunately, as opposed to the Civil Service Act, where this has been deleted. However, what is most worrying is that a very important record on the announcement of the competition and its results in the Public Information Bulletin has been removed. What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? This means that in the event of a change in such important positions in public administration actually average Kowalski or even a great expert may simply have no news of this. This means, in fact, that the Minister from his own group will be able to choose a candidate according to his well-known preferences, in his well-known way he will verify this - all these things are forgotten in this bill. By drawing and changing the rules of the competition, we cause it to cease to be verifiable in no way, measurable, but also accessible to outsiders, i.e. persons outside the governing party. The aim of the project, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, was to make the appointment and dismissal mentioned in the draft law more flexible, but it is really just a jump to the stools. Without publication of information about recruitment, without competition and clear rules for conducting it, it is difficult to talk about transparency. And one more important thing that this bill introduces. Unfortunately, the proposed draft amendment to the law will not have any impact on the state budget due to the fact that the draft introduces changes concerning the number of vice-presidents, ladies and gentlemen. Two or one entries have been deleted, and they have been replaced by an undefined plural, which means that we can now have the wrong one. in the Law on the Management of Agricultural Property of the Treasury in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, where the appointment of one vice-president of the agency is envisaged, and the proposed amendment will refer to the appointment of vice-presidents - several, several or several dozen. That's my basic question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no transparency here. I understand you need to replace your position, but maybe a little decency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u63	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to comment on the draft law amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other laws. And I will actually start my speech with a title that absolutely does not reflect the content which is presented in this project, because this project does not foresee any changes in the Social Insurance Agricultural Fund or in the functioning of other units subordinate to the agricultural minister. He is merely, and only, that sooner, easier, simpler, without the rules of the competition he converts not his own into his own, and in fact this project could have such a title: to convert not his own into his. But this is perhaps a little ironic, hilarious, although the subject matter was very serious, especially since the argument was also serious, it referred to the word flexibility. Indeed, flexibility in this case is clearly presented in this project. But I also want to say that my amazement has triggered why this is a parliamentary project, not a government project. I mean, really, when it comes to the gesture of appointing as executives... [[More important, more important.]] ...in individual institutions, this is not a matter of parliament. And perhaps it would be possible to make such amendments that such candidates should, if they do not have to appear before any competition committee, present themselves to the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. If you had tabled such an amendment, it would certainly have received our support, because it is not really here about the obligations that our High Chamber is facing in terms of calling on these functions, and we are using in this case whether you are using such a faster path to make changes to your own. But that's not all that's in this project. 'Cause if there's something positive about him, for example. The fact that it is maintained that the President of the Council of Ministers is appointed at the request of the Minister of Agriculture, in principle all other issues raise huge doubts, if not only legal, is certainly moral and ethical, as if the Act contains an indefinite number of deputy directors of the agency, the institution of the agricultural advisory centre. What does that have to do with making savings? I would like to return to the discussion here, for example, about the number of Vice-Marshals in the Sejm or members of the Sejm specialization where such arguments were used. [[100,000. new officials.]] So these presidents, as you can see, you want to have more than two people everywhere, which is going to be a plural number. We'll see how many presidents you'll appoint in the course of your program. On behalf of Polish farmers, I keep expressing my hope that they will be competent people, although of course they are not included in the competition procedure. But there's one more thing I'd like to draw attention to. You are referring to a positive opinion of the agricultural community. There is a farmers' council in one of these institutions, i.e. at the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. As we look at the composition of this advice, there are representatives not only of different industries but also of different trade unions. To date, the president of the KRUS, the candidate for president of the KRUS, had to obtain the opinion of this board of farmers. You have not included this country here, and this absolutely does not come directly to the expectations of agricultural communities, so that at least you can speak about the candidate or listen to what he has to say about how he will act as President of the CRU. And to tell you the truth, actually... [[Better.]] ...this law misleads farmers because they expect changes in the functioning of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, but I think that not only neither above all nor at all changes concerning the President. But I also wanted to thank the applicants for the fact that, unlike the Civil Service Act here, they retained some criteria for selecting candidates - that there was Polish citizenship, that you need to have some education, experience, and that although this will be taken into account in the election of the candidate, even though this procedure for selecting candidates is very undefined or is not at all there. I also wanted to give a brief warning because I don't wish anybody harm. Such a one-man responsibility of the Minister, who has heads of individuals who are subordinate to himself, selected not in the procedure of the competition, only at his request, is that - and such cases in history have been - we will also have to take full responsibility for what these people will do and what these people will represent. And from the boss's point of view it is not always well received, it is not always good for him, because it would be better if he had, on one or another basis, but the candidate or subordinate of the person selected by way of the competition. I also wanted to ask, in principle, where in this law is it said that an audit is to be carried out in the organizational units. After all, this law absolutely doesn't cover it. Oh, by the way, I think the audit should do this. not their own or not their own, but should be represented by independent, competent, independent institutions that should look at what is happening in these institutions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, only from these [[♪ The bell ♪]] Several reasons I mentioned, the club of the Polish People's Party cannot support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u65	Thank you, sir. The following Members have joined the floor... If there are no more calls, I'll close the list. I'm setting the time to ask you a question for one and a half minutes. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, the Kukiz Club15, will speak first.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Question to the rapporteur, Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski: Is there already a qualified staff that will allow for a smooth merger of agencies and inspections and when will the jointness project be presented? These solutions are designed to reduce costs and simplify various bureaucratic procedures. To what extent will interconnectivity reduce costs, and what will become really simpler and easier for an ordinary farmer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u67	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszka, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law we are debating concerns the exchange of staff at the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund and agricultural agencies. Contests are eliminated and the required education and experience is reduced. Is it really so that, according to the proposed changes, a person who does not have Polish citizenship can be appointed to lead positions in these institutions? Second question: How far will the exchange of staff in KRUS and agricultural agencies go? Will a number of employees also be verified? And by the way, the contest is a good thing. And you know why? Because even when it starts, it prepares and refreshes news, knowledge. It's useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u69	Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u70	First, Mr. Marshal, I wanted to complete my statement. Of course, no one in this House takes away the right to select their own staff, because by exercising certain functions, taking responsibility for functioning in one area or another, it is good to have people who are implementing their own programme identical to the boss's programme. But my question is about the thread that has repeatedly appeared here in the statements of the predecessors - that this project will somehow contribute to whether it will facilitate the establishment of these two superagencies: food safety agencies - perhaps not quite the correct formula - and rural development agencies. At which point in this law is it written, where the process of merging agencies in order to establish these two, how important for Polish agriculture institutions is described? 'Cause I didn't find it. And I stress once again that, in my opinion, this is a law concerning only changes not of their own on their own, there is no other substance in this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u71	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Beida, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First question: Why is the Polish state so quickly? Why do you not want competitions to be held for the highest positions in agricultural institutions? Next question: Will the Minister for Agriculture bear full responsibility for the activities of bodies such as: KRUS, ANR, the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture? What does the Minister consider to be a priority in the operation of the agency? Next question. When I read this project, do I have the impression that the PiS is trying to take control of agricultural advisory centers, disenfranchising local government? Do you really seek to prohibit the powers of local authorities? Is sufficient competence for the post of director of the branch and its alternates: university education, Polish citizenship, the exercise of public rights, no conviction? In my opinion, it is also important to have the knowledge of content, the ability to run a team. What about those powers? Is your main criterion mediocre, passive, but faithful? My next question concerns the project procedure. Why are projects on the insurance of farmers, about the Court being processed in the form of parliamentary projects? They all deal with personal issues. You take care of these projects instantly, while the so-called. The 500+ bill is to be in government mode, of course longer. You can clearly see what the PiS priorities are. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u73	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Rafał Romanowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers and some other acts in its assumption consistently removes from the amended acts the identification of the number of alternates and chief inspectors, leaving this matter to be settled in the statutes of the various government agencies themselves. That's one thing. Secondly, it will harmonise the rules for the appointment and dismissal of alternates and chief inspectors by introducing a rule that the Deputy Minister shall appoint a competent minister at the request of the President or Chief Inspector and shall revoke without the need to submit an application from the President or Chief Inspector. Thirdly, it will harmonise the qualification requirements for directors of branches of agencies and their deputies, specifying them as follows: has a higher education, is a Polish citizen, enjoys full public rights, cannot be convicted by a final judgment for a deliberate crime or a deliberate tax offence. The same requirements are proposed to apply to the heads of the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture and their deputies. The draft also clarifies the provisions concerning the exclusion of the use of recruitment in relation to the posts mentioned in the third paragraph. Ladies and gentlemen! I cordially thank the applicants for this initiative, because I do not hide that the draft law is in line with the view of the new management of the Ministry. We want to systematize this, improve the management of the agendas and 100% we are responsible for the decisions we have made. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u75	Thank you. Mr Robert Telus, the applicant's representative, asked for the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer a few questions that have been addressed to me as the representative of the applicants. Why the parliamentary project? I think that's a simple question. You know, the parliamentary project is a much simpler legislative path, much faster, and this is about making changes, reforms quickly. I think that the Member States that have asked about this are also concerned with the involvement of Members who have prepared such a good bill in such a short time. I think it is very important that Members get involved and prepare laws, just go to work. The second charge is that we exchange not our own, that's the charge, I think, the bad, the bad, the charge that shouldn't be. We want to exchange the good for the better so that we can implement our program, [[Applause]] the programme prepared, the programme which was presented and presented by the entire campaign, but also earlier, the programme which was accepted by the voters and, above all, by Polish farmers, because Polish farmers voted for this programme. We're talking about qualifications. Mr Maliszewski thanked us for writing down our qualifications in the Act. I think that these thanks belong not only to the applicants, not only to the Members who have prepared this bill, but also to the Committee on Agriculture, which drew attention to this, and then, together with the chairman of the committee and with the Members of the various options, we have prepared an amendment on qualifications. The point is to make the qualifications good. Mr Maliszewski spoke about the audit, about the fact that there is nothing in this bill about the audit. I said we wanted to make some reforms, some strong reforms in terms of agencies, some inspections. In order to prepare such reforms, we need the right people to prepare such an audit. I'm not talking about an audit so strict, I'm talking about an audit of what's going on in these inspections, where, what departments change needs to be made. One needs to prepare such an audit to know which powers are assigned to which agencies or inspections, because at the moment there is a huge mess in these competences. With regard to Mr Bejda's question as to whether the Minister will take responsibility, I will say: Mr, do not be afraid, and the Ministry, and the Law and Justice, and the whole government takes responsibility for its decisions. We are not afraid of responsibility, we want to act openly, so that everyone can see our actions, and we take full responsibility for what is happening in our agencies or inspections. You asked if we had any temptations to take the local ODR. Yeah, it's on our show. These aren't temptations. It simply cannot be as it is at the moment, that there are 16 voivodships, 16 agricultural advisory centres and everyone has a different policy. Polish agriculture is to be conducted according to one policy, the one which serves Poland. [[Applause]] That is why agricultural advisory centres will return to the ministry, to the agency I am talking about, the rural agencies. And one last charge: mediocre, passive, but faithful. Mr President, eight years, I think it was your domain, and we're gonna change that. [[TKM.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u77	Thank you. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try to address these questions, which were of a substantive nature, because I do not intend to answer them. Mr Wojciech the King pointed out that he felt that the name was inadequate. Mr President, it was explained very precisely by the Seym Lawyers that this is absolutely consistent with the proceedings of this type of legislation, which amends a number of laws, and is taken as the first oldest law. The one about farmers' social insurance is from 1990, the next laws are younger. Probably there wouldn't be any significant problem if we called it that this is a law on agricultural advisory units and amending other laws or on restructuring agencies and amending other laws, but the legislative technique imposes an obligation to apply as the first law of the oldest. And that is what we have done. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, rightly pointed out the pathologies that have so far operated in agricultural support institutions, that there is a widespread expectation of reducing both the costs and bureaucratic barriers faced by farmers. He also rightly questioned the way in which the so-called "programming" was carried out. competitions for which it was already known who was going to win before the competition, because this was the way the criteria were set. You even used the words "party sits," "guys and pathologies," which have been in practice in agricultural institutions. I'm confirming it. I think anyone who knows the situation in the country was dating it. That's why we want to cut it. Mrs Joanna Augustynowska says that the competitions to date included expert criteria. I don't know where you saw these criteria expertly outside the notice of the contest. Have the expert criteria been taken into account in terms of employment - the first example on the side - of the President of the restructuring and modernisation agency, which had to be cancelled in criminal proceedings because he allowed dramatic negligence, the effects of which will be felt by farmers not only in this but also in the following year, because there was no IT system in the agency providing payment service, direct payments to farmers? Those are the expert criteria? If these are expert criteria, then... [[What's it gonna be like now?]] ...thank you so much for such experts. I would like to say what was also underlined by Mr Telus's applicant, I am signing off on this. Yes, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture take full responsibility for the employees employed, for the employees appointed. That's the difference from what was, that now that we're trying to figure out, quoting a little poet, who's my money thief, Jew dog or benefactor, it's hard to figure out. The responsibility of the president of the agency is none. Maybe a vice president, or someone who's organizing a bid? Or maybe it is the company that is responsible for the fact that there is no system and farmers who were affected by drought in the collapse of the agricultural markets, expected money from direct payments, must do away with taste. We need to make some bypasses, makeshift solutions in the form of continuing advances, so that at least a little money can go to people. Then who's to blame for this situation? This - in quotes - expert employed in the restructuring agency. And he probably won a competition that was the basis for his appointment. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kaczmarczyk's question of how the institutions to create a rural development agency will be combined and how the inspections responsible for official food control will be combined. Among other things, those who will be appointed to these institutions very quickly will provide full insight into the functioning of these institutions and prevent the situation with which we have been dealing for many years that - I apologize for the colloquialism - each palate of its tail praises, each of these institutions is considered to be better and more important than the others. Such a curial project of combining inspections in the previous term of office of the Sejm was submitted by the Civic Platform. He assumed the absolute domination of the Veterinary Inspection. All management positions in this combined inspection were to be carried out only by veterinarians. So we want to cut through this kind of speculation, and based on a common sense approach, on certain patterns from other countries, and we don't need to break down all doors, sometimes we want to take a good look at how others organized it, and we want to create these institutions without favoring one of them. And among others. This exchange of executives is intended to serve this purpose. On the other hand, questions about the timing of the teams that are working on it are questions not to the applicants of this particular law, and especially to me as the rapporteur of the committee. He answered these and many, many other questions of the Minister of Agriculture both on the Committee on Agriculture and a few days ago here in the Chamber. The Members were not there when Minister Jurgiel informed about the plans of the Ministry, there were dozens of us here, but anyone who wanted to hear could hear these plans of Minister Jurgiel. Mr Baszko asks if a person who does not have Polish citizenship can be appointed. I encourage you to read with understanding of the text. There the criterion is that there must be Polish citizenship, so I think that reading in Polish is enough to learn that only a Polish citizen will be able to be appointed to these leadership positions. Also the question to which the answer was already partially given: Are we taking agricultural advice? What do you mean, we're taking it? Who are we taking? Polish farmers? After all, the public agricultural advice developed over the years, which is currently experiencing a dramatic crisis, is better served by Polish farmers for public money. Administrative alignment, supervision is a matter of finding solutions that will be better than those that are at the moment. The absolute stupidity, the absolute harmful action was the transfer by the then Minister of Agriculture of Mr Sawicki of supervision of public agricultural advice in the gesture of local governments in the gesture of the Marshals of Voivodships in 2010. This is a psychic solution on a global scale. All those who have heard that agricultural advice will not be horizontal, only 16 programmes agricultural advisory activities, knocked on the head. I understand that one of your fellow Members was until recently a marshal of the voivodship or a deputy marshal of the voivodship, so he probably enjoyed this advice with the director of ODR performing tasks imposed on him by the voivodship board. That's not gonna happen. We do not take counseling from anyone, but restore the effective use of state agricultural advice for Polish villages and Polish farmers. I have not noticed any more substantive questions, thank you very much for these questions, and I ask the High Sejm to adopt this bill, as stated in the preamble, in the speech I gave on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u79	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on the draft parliamentary law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws (prints no. 115 and 130). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Report of the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws, prints Nos 115 and 130. The Sejm at its 5th meeting on 17 December 2015 pursuant to Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after considering this draft law at its meeting on 17 December 2015, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. High Seym! The following amendments were tabled when the draft law was examined in the committee. Amendment 1 tabled in Article. Paragraph 12 (6) of the draft law referred to the Law of 20 June 1997 on road traffic. Its aim was to ensure uniformity of solutions for access by the Minister for the Interior to the central vehicle records and the central driver records. In accordance with the amendment, the Minister for the Interior will have access to the central register of drivers by means of data teletransmission devices without having to obtain the decision of the Minister responsible for this purpose each time. information technology that agrees to access data. Amendment 2 tabled in Article. Paragraph 29 (1) of the draft amendment concerned the Act of 5 January 2011 on driving vehicles. The aim of the amendment was to include a regulation among the issuing authorities, including: issuing documents stating entitlement to drive, the Minister responsible for driving. computerisation due to the regulation of the issue of cooperation between the IT systems of the old age. Amendments 3 and 4 were also tabled to Article. 37 (1) (a) (ii) a the draft law and the article. 37 point 2 of the draft law. The amendments referred to the Law of 24 July 2015 amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The purpose of Amendment 3 was to delete data from the central vehicle register from the directory of operators, the Minister responsible for Communication, because access to the records would result from the operation by the Minister responsible for Public Administration. information technology, the scope of which also includes telecommunications and central vehicle records. Amendment 4 to the same article aimed, like Amendment 1, to ensure uniformity of arrangements for access by the Minister of Interior to the central vehicle records and the central driver records. Thus, the Minister of the Interior obtained access to the central register of drivers by means of data teletransmission devices without having to obtain every decision of the Minister responsible for computerization that agrees to make such data available. The two amendments therefore meant a smooth cooperation between the two ministries: the Minister for Foreign Affairs is organized by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Minister for Information Technology also has access to IT. Internal. High Seym! All these amendments were agreed by consensus in committee. Amendments were also tabled to the Legislative Office of the Sejm, including editorial and legislative amendments. All these amendments received unanimous support from the committee. Dear Members and honourable Members, I would also like to draw attention to a correction. For print no. 130 containing the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws in art. 45 (2) an error occurred, namely a mistake concerning the numbering of points. Point 5 is written and it should be point 6, so once this mistake has been eliminated, this provision should read as follows: Article. Point 25, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2017. This is an obvious typographical error and please take it into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u81	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bogdan Rzońc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice refer to the law, to the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws. This project refers, you can say, to 34 other laws and according to the drafter of the law, the purpose of amending individual articles is, among other things, a new definition of the scope of the IT department in the Act of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration. The main issue here is the coordination of cybersecurity cases, a very important issue, and this involves the transfer of administration over PESEL registers, the Register of Personal Evidence, the Central Registration of issued and invalid Passport Documents and the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers. This also involves the electronicisation of the provision of services between the citizen and the state. This task fits perfectly in the plan to build a single EU digital market. All these tasks will be carried out if the act is passed, the Minister responsible for IT. Another objective is to bring telecommunications tasks to a different level than before, as telecommunications issues will now be subject to the Minister responsible for IT. One of the next objectives is to amend the rules and laws that have so far been the domain of the Minister of Home Affairs, relating to the scope of conduct and development and state policy making in the field of central registers, and to exclude these matters from the Ministry of Home Affairs and to transfer them to the Minister for Information Technology with human resources and budget. In the discussion that took place at the committee meeting on 17 December, a number of issues were concerned, i.e. Members argued that the draft law divided the powers between two departments and asked whether this would undermine the security of personal data. It should be noted that the Home Minister only retains access to databases as he has so far. The Minister of the Interior has no new competences. On the other hand, the Minister of Home Affairs ceases to be the administrator of central registers. The Minister of the Interior must have access to the data, as he continues to carry out statutory tasks related to e.g. with the Schengen Information System or the PESEL register, administrative decisions concerning e.g. second passport, etc. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration retains those competences which are simply required to enable him to carry out his tasks. The registers are therefore transferred to the Minister of Digitization, they are not changed, they will be developed, developed to facilitate access to e-government and e-services for citizens. In fact, the point is that there should be fewer officials in the offices, so that the Petents can do more through e-services. All the proposed changes, as well as the entire amendment of the Law on Departments deserve very much attention, deserve support. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that it be passed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u83	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to present a position concerning the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws contained in print no. 115, and the position of the committee, contained in print no. 130. I will like to repeat, after my previous speaker, that the proposed proposal proposes the amendment of 38 laws, and the new provisions concern mainly the Act of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration. Of course, the main objective is to redefine the competence of the Minister responsible for IT by redefining the scope of the IT department. It is also a change in the designation of the Minister responsible for public administration of the Minister responsible for IT. The following changes concern the transfer from the Department: Internal affairs of all matters relating to PESEL registers, the Register of Personal Evidence, the Register of Civil Status, and the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers and the parking cards held. The provisions on the transfer of the competence of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs in respect of certain state registers to the Minister responsible for Information Technology or to take into account the competences of the two Ministers in respect of public records and road safety are also included in these amendments. Of course, during the work on this project, firstly, we indicated that there was a need to introduce this novel, this amendment, so as not to interfere with the work of new resorts, but, of course, we paid attention to the very fast pace, unnecessary chaos or mess in the preparation of another draft amendment in this law. We also know that they will be prepared another, they are already prepared and presented by the government. During the work of this committee, we also asked for clarification on our doubts as to the provisions that concern changes in two laws, namely the Personal Evidence Act and the Civil Records Act. We have not received a comprehensive justification for the changes that have been made to extend the supervision of voivodship authorities in the performance of the tasks set out in the laws. Previously, these records were well defined and very precise. For example, in the Act on Personal Evidence, the supervision of the voivodeship concerned only the issuing, exchange and cancellation of personal evidence, and in the Act on Population Records it was properly specified that the voivode would have supervision only in terms of reporting obligation. At the moment, we are expanding the scope of supervision of the voivodship, and the insufficient explanations that we received on the committee raises further doubts as to the consequences of these records or the possible risks associated with the extended surveillance of the voivodship. That is why we are asking once again for a precise explanation of our doubts also expressed during the work of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u85	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Bartosz Józwiak, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to you the short position of the Kukiz club15 - short, because the changes in question are necessary changes due to the redecoration of a certain ministerial geography and as if it is our duty in a situation where they do not substantially change any regulations, help in their adoption - our position on the Law on the amendment of government departments and some other laws. Here's the position I'm honored to present. The proposed changes are mainly dictated by the creation of a separate ministry, the distribution of certain competences, the exclusion of certain matters relating to computerisation and the development and development of state policies in relation to the keeping of individual central registers, e.g. the records of vehicles and drivers, the PESEL register or a number of other records referred to here as important also for security in cyberspace, and the transmission of them in the administration of the Minister responsible for computerization, without having to request access to these data at any time, to the Minister responsible for Administration and Home Affairs. In addition, ordering the competence of the Minister responsible for computerization results in determining his competence and redefining the scope of the IT department, adapting the provisions to the amendments introduced by the Law amending the Law on Government Administrations (e.g. Communications have been excluded from the government administration department, which has been incorporated into the government administration, computerisation) and the transfer of certain competences of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs to the minister responsible for computerization. All changes within this law, as well as other laws, are of a legal nature and are either a transfer of specific competences, as I mentioned, from one minister to another, either because of the division by the government party or because of the rules already in place by the government party, are amending them, so that they can adapt to the new situation, to the new reality that has arisen. Any doubts and questions about the particular changes proposed have been made by us already during the committee's deliberations. During the deliberations of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, we have also received, in most of these cases, satisfactory explanations and answers. Our doubts mainly concerned the scope of access to collected personal data, to collected data about citizens, as well as the scope of competence of certain officials or offices regarding access to these data, but we find that these explanations were satisfactory for us. Some doubts have been raised here by your representative, the Civic Platform, by your Member. I think we will also receive additional information on this subject. The proposed changes do not introduce any new special regulations or regulations. Rather, they are merely and exclusively, as I mentioned, a transfer of powers, possibly a matter of regulation. In conclusion, we recognise that the right of the majority of the parliamentary government is to create the arrangements and competences of the ministries it wants to manage, and to make changes in the divisions of their competences and, as a result, to correct the relevant provisions that actually enable the appointed ministries to function effectively, to manage the country efficiently. Here any shortcomings or delays would be detrimental to the state itself. As these changes are fully in place in this respect, Kukiz15 will support the changes being made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u87	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! The applicant's submissions dominated the claim that the draft of the contested law was purely technical in nature and introduced order amendments adapting the provisions of the laws to changes in the departments of government administration introduced by the Law of 19 November 2015. During my first reading, I stressed that the lack of consultation, in particular with local authorities, could lead to the introduction of a number of extremely unusable rules, which would be very costly for local self-government units. For example, in the article. 12 Paragraph 1 of the amendment to the Road Traffic Law is laid down in Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1 point (1) (a) c a delegation to the Minister responsible for computerization to specify detailed technical requirements for registration plates and the scope and way in which they are examined. From the practice I know it is clear that so far ordered by local government units, the old town registration plates did their job and there were no problems in this regard. The Act also extends the scope of supervision of the voivodeship of local government in the field of the Personal Evidence Act or the Public Records Act - Article respectively. 26 (2) as regards the amendment of Article. 9 Act on Personal Evidence and Art. 27 (1) as regards the amendment of Article. The 5th Civil Records Act. In addition, during my first reading, I also drew attention to the incomprehensible, dangerous extension of the possibility for the Minister responsible for home affairs to obtain access to records likely to affect civil rights and freedoms. During the rapid work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, both the applicant and the government side did not provide clear arguments for introducing special regulations allowing the Minister for Home Affairs to be made available, without a decision or written request, uncontrolled, full access to citizens' data resulting from the central vehicle records, central driver records, and when the same data is made available to the Police, the Border Guard shall be made available in the form of an appropriate procedure. Similarly, in the Personal Evidence Act, the Minister for Home Affairs receives full, uncontrolled access to the Register of Personal Evidence without the need to obtain the Minister's decision on IT. Similarly, the amendment of the Civil Records Act provides the Minister for Home Affairs with full access to the PESEL register. All these changes, contrary to Mr Czartoryski's claim by the applicants, introduce special new regulations in an unjustified way extending the competence of the Minister for Home Affairs. In this House, the Prime Minister has repeatedly called for substantive cooperation between the opposition in order to create good law. The creation of a good law requires the consideration and balance of the rights of all those affected by the regulations. 38 laws cannot be amended in 3 days without any consultation or agreement. This is a makeshift, not a rational, substantive action. For these reasons, the Modern Posel Club will vote against the proposal for this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u89	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to speak with Mr Krystian Jarubas, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws, prints no. 115 and 130. Ladies and gentlemen! The project assumes that the supervision of the most important state registers: PESEL, the Register of Personal Evidence, the register of civil status, the Central Registration of issued and cancelled Passport Documents and vehicle records, drivers' records and registrations of car park card holders will be transferred from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration to the Department of Digitization. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will continue to carry out tasks related to personalisation and issuing identity documents enabling border crossings and residence in other countries. As the applicants point out, the project aims primarily at achieving three objectives. First: ordering the competence of the Minister responsible for IT by redefining the scope of the IT department in the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration. Two: adapting the provisions to the amendments introduced by the Law of 19 November 2015 amending the Law on Government Departments and certain other laws. According to Art. 1 paragraphs 11 and 12 of the above-mentioned Law from the Government Administration Department of Communications have been excluded from telecommunications cases which have been included in the Government Administration Department in computerization. Three: transfer of the competence of the Minister of Home Affairs with regard to certain state registers to the Minister of Information Technology. Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administration Tomasz Zdzikot and Deputy Minister of Digitization Szymon Ruman stressed that the assignment of the Minister responsible for computerization of the functions of registry administrator and records will ensure the effective development of e-services. Such a chapter will ensure synergies - firstly, placing in a single centre specialised in the IT tasks of the State of services, which will also be established on the basis of these registers, on the other hand, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration as a supervisory authority for voivodships and administration in the field. The division proposed in the draft law will not affect the extension of the powers of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Its competences will continue to include tasks related to personalisation and issuing identity documents enabling border crossings and stays in the territory of other countries. The rapporteur presented the amendments that were accepted by the committee and the Polish People's Party Club would therefore support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u91	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. If there are no more people willing to ask a question at this point, I close the list. Time for questioning is set for one and a half minutes. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The draft law amending the law on government departments and some other laws regulates very important matters of competence. Undoubtedly, this should be a government project that would go through the necessary inter-ministerial arrangements and contain the necessary opinions. I believe that the opinion of the General Data Protection Officer, who is responsible for the security of personal data, is necessary. There are several dangerous provisions in this project that give a wide range of access rights to personal data without the need to submit applications. This poses a threat to the security of personal data. My question: Does the bill have a general opinion of the Data Protection Officer? If so, what is the opinion, and where can it be read? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u93	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Platform Club, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We know that you have established a new formula for the functioning of the ministries, and therefore a law on departments is needed. Is it therefore necessary to change competences in this regard? Because it is a parliamentary project and in this case, if it were a government project, at least the opinions of individual ministers would require this project, and therefore the standing committee of the Council of Ministers and then the position of the Council of Ministers on the project. In this respect, we do not have any information about the need for this personal data protection project, and I would therefore like to ask the Minister: How did you pass on this project? Because we understand that it's not strict. The parliamentary project, only Members, the emanation of the government, brought this project, and therefore: How did you carry out this consultation? And if they did not, then to the Member of the applicant: On what basis do you base your project? What is the need for a solution regarding the Minister's access to the personal data of each citizen? In the past, this has ended differently, and therefore: Why has such an important project on access to personal data not been submitted as a government project? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u95	Thank you. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization of Minister Simon Ruman. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These issues that you have been asking about have been discussed quite extensively on the Parliamentary Committee, so I will first refer to the issue that has emerged as a new one which Mr Pampuch has raised, i.e. to ask about license plates, technical requirements for license plates. This is an extension of the scope or clarification by adding this to the scope of the Regulation, which is issued jointly by the Minister responsible for transport with the Minister responsible for IT. We added this provision, it was included in this law at the explicit request of the Government Legislation Centre or at the suggestion - perhaps not to the suggestion - of the Government Legislation Centre, which indicated that the scope of the law should be specified in detail, because the regulation contains not only templates of tables, but there are detailed rules on the technical requirements and the scope and way in which they are examined, i.e. those provisions are in the implementing act and that there is no doubt as to whether the scope of the authorisation is appropriate, this is clarified. Here I also answer Mrs Skowronska's question. It is of course a parliamentary project, but the ministers concerned by this project - these are three ministries and three ministers - expressed their opinion on this project, of course, by submitting their comments to it as well. As regards the questions that are repeated, the Minister of the Interior's access to the data collected in the registers and records, we also explained on the committee that this access at the moment the Minister of Home Affairs has a full capacity, i.e. it is no new situation, only this scope remains for the Minister of Home Affairs in order to carry out its statutory tasks, and the administrator of the register and the entity or minister who will further develop and maintain it is the minister competent for computerization. I don't think there were any more questions for me, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u97	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Tomasz Zdzikot.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u98	Dear Marshal, High Seym! First of all, I would like to point out that we had a long and substantive discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the draft law that was being examined today. For this discussion, I would like to thank both the chairman of the committee and the Members of Parliament. During this discussion, I felt that we had all the doubts that this draft law had to do with, because the committee meeting had concluded unanimously with a positive opinion on the draft. However, returning to the doubts that are once again emerging today, I would like to stress that the Parliamentary bill does not contain any solutions that would create any new competences on the part of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration is now the host of all the registers that the Act deals with. The Minister of the Interior has access to these registers at present, just as every previous Minister of the Interior has access to them. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, as a result of the entry into force of the Act, will retain only part of the access to this data which is absolutely necessary and necessary for the performance by the Minister of Legal Affairs of the tasks of the Minister of Home Affairs. What are these tasks? Because that's what we talked about on the committee, too. For example, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the register of personal evidence or the Central Register of issued and invalid passport documents, these are issues related to, for example, the Schengen Information System, where the Minister of Home Affairs in connection with the relevant legislation is the body responsible for the transmission, powering of that register. As regards the register of personal evidence, the subordinate Minister of the Home Affairs of the Centre for the Personalisation of Documents shall include information on mispersonalised documents in that register. As far as the PESEL register is concerned, we also talked about this very widely in committee, but it is for the Home Minister to make the data available in response to individual, individual requests. In this respect, there is no amendment proposed in the parliamentary bill in order not to lead to complications in dealing with individual applications, which over a million are considered during the year. These tasks of the Minister of Home Affairs, which require that the Minister has permanent and ongoing access to registers, which at the moment remain entirely within the competence of the Minister of Home Affairs, are many. I, to be honest, was looking forward to discussing this draft law with the High Sejm, rather expecting questions about why the Minister of the Interior is removing some of the competences and not why some of them are preserved. Therefore, I think that the discussion in this part is incomprehensible to me, because we have answered these questions widely in committee and the Minister for the Interior has not received any new competences in connection with the entry into force of this law. As regards the supervision of voivodships over the authorities of the municipality and the supervision of the minister of voivodships, we also talked about this in broad terms in committee and I felt that we had clarified any doubts about this. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the provisions we are discussing in connection with the supervision of voivodships and the minister of voivodship, proposed in the parliamentary draft law, are a simple equivalent, equivalent to 1:1, because these are carbons, regulations currently in force in the Law on Civil Status Act. There is exactly such a record and this is a law that was amended in 2014 and entered into force in 2015. The lack of such specific provisions, not indeterminate ones, but as concrete as they are now proposed, has been repeatedly questioned. Why? That's because this bill, the People's Register Act, as well as the Personal Evidence Act at the moment state that... For example, the Civil Records Act provides that the voivode exercises supervision over the activities of the municipal authorities in relation to the reporting obligation, but lacks in this provision the provision - including the general, competence provision - on the competence of the Minister of Interior and the voivode, for example. tasks related to the registration of residents, the registration of alien residence and the sharing of data from these registers. All these tasks we are talking about are being carried out and the revision of the rules is legislative and orderly. I stress strongly that the law under review today does not create on the side of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration any new competences that would go beyond what is being carried out by the Minister of Home Affairs and have been implemented both in 2015, 2014, 2012 and earlier years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee of Arkadiusz Czartoryski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr Zdzikot has already basically explained what has to do with this part of your questions, which were most often repeated. I mean both Mr Mirosław Pampuch from Modern, as well as Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska from the Civic Platform Club and Mrs Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska from the Civic Platform Club, you have drawn attention in your questions to accessing the data of the population and accessing the data on personal evidence. Mr Mirosław Pampuch went the farthest in his question, because he also suggested that it would be excessive, full, uncontrolled access to personal data, which this amendment would enable the Home Affairs Minister. It's actually falling down, and there's been talk of a threat to the security of personal data. In his last speech, the Minister stressed that neither the committee nor the majority of the committees had the will to increase the access of the Minister of Home Affairs to personal data in an uncontrolled and excessive manner. So there is simply a misunderstanding of the amendment of this law. Besides, ladies and gentlemen, I am already after a meeting with the head of the Centre for Personalization of Documents, which is subordinate to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Immediately after the New Year we will want to hold an away meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, where the full circulation of documents will be presented: from the citizen's request through the creation of this document, the printing of this document and then the transfer to the citizen. I have read this circuit, and I must admit to you here and I must say that I am surprised by all these voices, especially on the part of the Civic Platform, which is talking about the threat, and we are not changing this system. In my view, unlike what is, for example, in many other countries of the European Union, this is a very safe, very professionally organised circulation of, for example, personal evidence, passports, service IDs or such documents that allow us to cross our borders. We have full control, the Polish state has full control over the production of these documents and the personalization of these documents, as well as their circulation, which is exercised by the State Police. And these are the rules that the previous government has adopted, the solutions that it has supervised, probably even invested in the Center for Personalization of Documents. So that, to be honest, I do not understand all the voices that speak... especially Mr Mirosław Pampuch, who says that the Modern Club will vote against because the Home Minister will have access to excessive, full and uncontrolled personal data that are collected. Ladies and gentlemen! Most of these answers have already been answered by ministers. The point is that it is the will of applicants to allow the Ministry of Digitalization to function from the new year, so that in Poland it is possible to continue working on modern e-services for citizens, on the access of citizens to modern ways of dealing with civil affairs in offices. This is not done without problems, hence, among others. It's our amendment. For example, these things that we have already discussed on committee, such as this queue to civil status offices as regards the Source system. But I do not have the impression that personal data in Poland is at risk. As I said at the beginning, we will want to continue this discussion at an away meeting of the committee, here in Warsaw, but at an away meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs at the Centre for the Personalization of Documents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Is it possible to sign up for such an outing?]] You're welcome. [[Good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u101	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Education, Science and Youth Committee on the draft law on the Integrated Qualifications System (prints 107 and 133). I ask Mr Vladimir Bernacki to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the parliamentary draft law on the Integrated Qualifications System, print 107, report - print 133. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! On 14 December the draft was received by the committee and on 17 December 2015 the committee started work on the draft. Four legislative amendments were tabled to the draft, these amendments were accepted by the committee, 24 substantive amendments were tabled, and these amendments were also accepted, and as regards the three amendments, these three amendments tabled by the Kukiza movement were rejected by the committee. High Izbo! This proposal, which was discussed at the committee meeting, concerns the introduction of a set of system solutions that allow for the harmonisation of the qualification system. This codification is carried out, firstly, through the establishment or establishment of a Polish Qualifications Framework, as well as an instrument which we know here under the name: Integrated Qualifications System. As far as this project is concerned, the draft of this law is a parliamentary project, it is a project adjusting Polish law to EU law. As rapporteur, I should not be expressing my private opinion here directly, but I hope that this framework, which we put in place through such a legal solution, will not and will not become an obstacle to the intellectual development of young generations of Poles in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u103	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I submit to you our position on the Act on the Integrated Qualifications System in Poland, print No 107. The petitioner of this law is Law and Justice. And here I would like to point out why such a legislative path. The Polish government under the aegis of Prime Minister Beata Szydło could not apply the government path because it would not have been able to pass this law by the end of 2015 - I would say that we only ruled since November 2015 and that the work on this law lasted almost 8 years. This law is crucial primarily for many millions of Poles whose qualifications - above all, partial qualifications - would be recognised not only in Poland but also throughout the European Union. European Union documents point to European development based on innovation and high employment, including by promoting the mobility of people in the labour market. The European Qualifications Framework (EQF) plays a key role in achieving these objectives, i.e. the structure of qualification levels adopted in the European Union as a reference system for national qualifications frameworks to compare qualifications obtained in different countries of the European Union. The solutions and mechanisms proposed in the draft law on the Integrated Qualifications System are intended to ensure a more effective implementation of lifelong learning policies that meet the needs of the modern knowledge-based economy. It should be stressed that the initiative of urgent adoption of the law results from the need for Poland to comply with the so-called law. the ex ante conditions for the Operational Programme (Knowledge, education, development), i.e. the PO WER programme, and regional operational programmes for investment priority 10.3: Lifelong learning. These programmes define how Poland will use the European Social Fund's resources for the period 2014 to 202023. Despite the formal recognition of this condition as being fulfilled, the European Commission has committed Poland to ensure that the Integrated Qualifications System Act will be adopted by the end of 2015 and the Integrated Qualifications System will achieve its planned functionality no later than the end of 2016. And here, from this parliamentary bench, I would like to stress that I am sorry, because the Civic Platform today voted in favour of moving the proceedings to January, when this law must be passed by the end of December, because we will lose within a limit of PLN 2 billion to human capital. Failure to do so may be linked to failure, as I said, in the financial perspective of PLN 2 billion, including about 1 billion for training adults in the regions, and PLN 68 million for priority III of the PO KL, which concerned the national qualifications framework. I would like to point out that, as a result, Europe has threatened us with a finger for such long delays and for the terrible use of funds from the European Union in the previous perspective from the PO KL. And today the European Union, if it gives us 2 billion zlotys, is only for projects which will end with specific qualifications and specific diplomas which give Poles certain qualifications. That is why Law and Justice leaned over this law. Here the great thanks of Minister Anna Zalewska, who worked very hard two weeks with her team so that today a second reading of this project could take place. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I also wanted to make amendments that were tabled today. You're welcome, I'll pass it along. On the other hand, I wanted to stress on behalf of the Law and Justice Club that we will vote in favour of this project because our government... Law and Justice is a responsible organisation which is aware that such large money from the European Union cannot be lost. And I also wanted to stress that as a law and justice club, we will watch closely how this bill will work. If it does not function well, we will evaluate it and amend it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u105	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to ask the floor of Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u106	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to address the Member who represented the PiS Club. Well, I want to reassure you, we will vote in favour of this bill, all the more so because we've tried it. In fact, you've taken over a nearly-ready bill. So I don't understand why you're bothering me. Besides, we also voted with you in committees and you know it very well, so you don't need these emotions. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to the point. The aim of the proposed regulation is to increase the level of human capital in Poland by increasing the number of learners and increasing the efficiency of investments and increasing the matching of demand and supply to the labour market. I particularly mean referring to qualifications outside education and higher education systems. This is provided for in a number of programming documents adopted by the Council of Ministers. This is reflected in changes in qualifications systems in Europe. The European Qualifications Framework, which is the structure of qualifications levels adopted in the European Union, is a reference system for the national Qualifications Framework, which makes it possible to compare qualifications obtained in different countries of the European Union. The purpose of the Act on the Integrated Qualifications System is to propose solutions that can help implement lifelong learning policies, because these are the current needs of the economy of every country that is in the European Union. The aim is to increase the availability and quality of the qualifications we can obtain in Poland by referring them to the European Qualifications Framework. The European Commission, here, has already asked Poland to mention this, has committed Poland to ensure that the law is passed by 2015. Failure to do so could result in Poland losing funds from the European Social Fund in the framework of the 2014/2023 priority, as the spending of these funds is intended to take into account projects which allow for obtaining diplomas and certificates in line with the European Qualifications Framework and incorporated into the Integrated Qualifications System in Poland. Therefore, as I mentioned at the outset, the Civic Platform will be in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u107	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Paweł Skutecki, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Kukiz Club15, I have the honour to present our position on this draft law, which will be very different from your view of the matter. I'll start by saying that this bill is a symbol for me personally. She's a symbol of how the previous ruling crew created the law. It is not true what you said, that Poland was obliged to implement the Polish Qualifications Framework, the Integrated Qualifications System. The European Union simply bought this law from Poland, from the Polish government through the Ministry of Science and Higher Education and later the Ministry of National Education. The Union put several tens of millions of zlotys on the table a few years ago. The previous government just took the money, not looking too much, whether it makes sense if it doesn't make sense. If the authors of this bill had integrity to stand before the High House and present this project as their own, we could discuss it. In this situation we are in today, we have nothing to discuss. We hear that failure to comply with this law will mean that we may lose the possibility of applying about PLN 2 billion. It's huge money, but it's still money. Any money put into a functioning economy can either stimulate it or corrupt it or destroy it. We're not in favour of taking money no matter who or what. This law is also primarily a symbol of a certain trend, a certain thought that everything will work better if it is even more regulated and described. We went to the elections, talking about deregulation as deep as possible. This bill goes in a completely different direction. We can't support her. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u109	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions proposed in the draft law are intended to improve the effectiveness of lifelong learning policies, which meet the needs of today's knowledge-based economy, which we very often hear about, especially at the moment by Prime Minister Szydło. The aim of the regulation is to increase the level of human capital in Poland by increasing the number of learners, but also to increase the efficiency of investment in human capital itself, but most importantly, to match demand, supply in the labour market by attracting non-formal education providers into this Integrated Qualifications System. The aim of the ZSK is to increase the availability and quality of qualifications available in Poland, but by assigning qualifications covered by the Polish Qualifications Framework, which will refer again to the European Qualifications Framework. And that is what this project is all about, so that we can support mobility in the labour market, but in the European market. It should be stressed that the very idea of introducing the ZSK law into the Polish legal order is moving in the right direction. The Modern Club supports this legislative initiative. We read a lot of positive intentions in it. But I will allow myself to make comments on the bill, which maybe during the next year of experience we will be able to modify, verify. The first issue is the issue of the attractiveness of the system for the labour market, i.e. for entrepreneurs themselves or their employees, because the success of the Integrated Qualifications System will not be a mass of actors from the formal market, from the education and higher education market, which will come from the automatic system, but it will be a success if we encourage those from non-formal education, which will describe their qualifications in this system. Another issue, the issue of the level of PRK for market qualifications, the separation of the description of the application. At this point in time, this solution assigns this competence mainly to ministers and experts appointed by the Minister. We believe that the applicant should immediately indicate the level in the Polish Qualifications Framework when applying for the exclusion of certain qualifications from this integrated system. Here's another thing. We read that it is discretionary and strong, i.e. We take from the law that it is a very restrictive access mode for appointment and supervision of certification bodies. As a modern club, we believe that it is an entrepreneur who can carry out this activity by making an appropriate statement that he fulfils the specific conditions laid down in the provisions of the Act. On the Minister's side, however, we see the functions of quality supervision, the keeping of the register of these entities, with the appropriate control mechanisms, of course. The project does not provide incentives for market operators to enter the scheme. This is an innovation in the market, especially in the non-formal education market. With innovation, it would be useful to introduce some incentives to first achieve this mass of those who will be drawn into the system. These may be exemptions, for example, from the mandatory fee for applications for inclusion of qualifications. The question of copyright for qualifications is doubtful whether such qualifications will be protected by copyright. We can imagine entities that are currently operating on the market because they have their described qualification, which meets the relevant standards. These qualifications are highly successful in the market and now the entity that describes the qualifications, introduces into the system, has no guarantee that these copyrights will be protected, the copyrights themselves concerning the qualification description. Too bureaucratic. I would also like to stress that in order to look at the bureaucracy that has been covered since, the whole mode of verification and integration of qualifications into the system, the choice of certification body, further supervision and control of the entire validation and certification process, but also the mode of resignation, appeals, appointments. We see here a heavy burden on the Minister of Coordinator and the competent ministers. And they can be the narrow throat, and this one needs to be looked at, watched. The model of action of the Stakeholder Board does not guarantee participation in the work of the Board of Stakeholders, who are not parallel stakeholders and could, due to their importance, bring a lot of good ideas and valuable proposals to the whole system. Another point: ensuring consistency of qualifications. The system design is insufficient to demonstrate how we will ensure the transfer of learning outcomes and qualifications, how and who will ensure the consistency of the descriptions of learning outcomes, so that there are no multiple situations describing the same learning effect, e.g. on universal learning outcomes. Currently, the responsibility for this lies with the applicants separately and with the experts of the competent minister and indirectly the Stakeholder Board. I regret that such an important bill is being proceded for five-twelve. On the other hand, I understand that this is due to the need for Poland to fulfil the ex ante condition of the PO WER programme. Personally, I am pleased that the work on this bill is coming to an end, and as a modern club, we will support this law. I think now is the time to draw conclusions from the previous perspective of EU funds 2007-2013, where a number of programmes were implemented to stimulate the market for non-formal education. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In general, the trend of increasing the indicator in Poland of lifelong learning, which is still low in Poland. We hope that this law is such a first step that more Poles will continue to be educated after formal education and raise their competences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u111	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krystian Jarubas, the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I am pleased to present my position on the Act on the Integrated Qualifications System, i.e. prints no. 107 and 133. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the regulation is to increase the level of human capital in Poland by increasing the number of learners and increasing the efficiency of investment in human capital and increasing the matching of labour market demand and supply, especially with regard to qualifications outside education and vocational education systems. The establishment, ladies and gentlemen, of an Integrated Qualifications System based on the Polish Qualifications Framework is provided for in a number of programming and strategic documents adopted by the Council of Ministers. The proposal to integrate different qualification subsystems in Poland is part of the broader context of changes in qualifications systems in Europe, as mentioned in documents issued in the European Union. In these changes, the European Qualifications Framework (EQF) plays a particular role, i.e. the structure of the levels of qualifications adopted in the European Union as a reference system for national qualifications frameworks to compare qualifications obtained in different countries of the European Union. Currently, in the Polish legal order, two autonomous systems in the field of higher education and education operate in the regulations governing the acquisition of qualifications, but internally coherent systems in the field of higher education and education. In both of these areas, the rules on the creation and award of qualifications have been regulated by law in a manner consistent with European standards. Ladies and gentlemen! The introduction of rules on the Integrated Qualifications System to regulate the current state of affairs, especially in the field of qualifications not regulated by law, is fully justified. The objectives set out in the explanatory memorandum of the project, namely to increase the level of human capital in Poland and to increase the matching of labour market demand and supply, particularly with regard to qualifications, are very ambitious. There can be doubts as to whether the proposed regulations are justified and whether they will enable them to achieve their objectives. Since the project requires further work, it is still possible to understand the determination of the projector to adopt the law by the end of 2015, due to the risk of losing substantial funds from the European Union, the club of the Polish People's Party, acting responsibly, will vote in favour of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u113	Thank you very much. I'm shutting down the list of people who are enrolled in the question. It's time for the question to be asked for a minute and a half. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Anna Cicholska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u114	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The bill on the Integrated Qualifications System was designed for many years. It was prepared under priority III of the PO KL in the years 2007 to 2013 from the European Union by the Institute for Educational Research. About 68 million PLN was allocated for its implementation. From the press release, I know that if this law is not passed by the end of this year, as has already been said, the Polish side must return this amount, i.e. about 68 million PLN, and we will not receive 2 billion PLN for the new perspective. Therefore, I have a question for the applicant: Why has this project taken so long? And what exactly were so much funding for as part of the work of the Educational Research Institute? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u115	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Kryj, the Polish Party... Law and Justice, I'm sorry. [[Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u116	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! In previous years, the participants of various types of training and courses financed by the Operational Programme of the Human Capital in the 2007-2013 perspective signalled that their level was often unsatisfactory. Such voices were also received by employers who stressed that training did not always translate into an increase in quality and efficiency of work. This was also in line with the European Commission's assessments. I have a question for the applicant: How much will the bill submitted contribute to changing this situation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u117	Thank you, sir. Ms Ewa Tomaszewska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Certificates and certificates awarded outside the education and higher education system are very often not reliable. I would like to ask: What importance will the regulation of partial qualifications have for Poles, especially those looking for work abroad? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u119	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education, Minister Teresa Wargocka, would like to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me answer some of the questions. Some of the questions were addressed to the applicant. My general statement after work on the Integrated Qualifications System Act is that, contrary to all the concerns that have been formulated here, especially from the modern club, this Integrated Qualifications System is very much in order for us to shape market qualifications. That is what the honourable Member was talking about. The courses that citizens participate in, often funded by EU funds, will have to be described in this context, and if they are to be co-financed by EU funds, they should preferably be located in the Integrated Qualifications System. This is a difficult bill, this is a difficult problem, and I think that such huge organizational and conceptual work is done once, while over the years this system must be alive and open. It's not like we're deciding something for the next decades. There will be new qualifications on the market, they will be certified, there will also be those that will be created, and the authors of these qualifications, entrepreneurs or people who organize training, will not bring, will not apply to this system, so that nothing bad will happen on the market for this reason. We are also now hearing discussions in the European Parliament on the movement of people and services. And it is in this direction that this law will allow Polish citizens who will receive a certificate, which will have a certain level, to know that our partner abroad will know at what level this qualification is, what competences, what skills an employer can expect in another country of the European Union. I've noticed one thing that's been a little disturbing to me. A member of the Modern Club asked about the author's protection of qualifications. Qualification cannot be protected by copyright. [[Description.]] Please? [[Just a description of the qualifications.]] As the qualification is described, there is a record in this law, isn't there? However, the qualification at the moment when it is in this system is, you can say, a public good, right? This qualification cannot be attributed only to the institution which requested that qualification. A lot of work was done, in a large social group and with employers was consulted. Of course, we are collecting all the comments and, as the applicant has already said here, if anything does not work in this procedure, we will try to remove these formal obstacles for the smooth operation of the system. There were also questions for the applicant. If the marshal will allow it, we'll split the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u121	Of course. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Ms Krystyna Wróblewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, In short, I would like to answer the questions of my fellow clubmates. Regarding the first question - you asked me why this law cost so much, 68 million - this is a question to the Institute of Educational Research, which simply had an order to prepare under the third priority of this law. That's not a question for me. As a public person, you can turn and follow up how this money from the European Union is a public good that has been spent. So much for me, because I don't know. What took you so long? It is very difficult for me to answer, too, because, as we all agree here in this Chamber, this law is also a public good and the earlier it would come into force, the earlier Poles who work in the European Union could actually benefit from it. It would certainly be much easier for them to work in different countries of the European Union. That's two. Ladies and gentlemen! I also have an answer for the Kukiz Club. Why must this law be introduced by the end of the year? I agree with you that it wouldn't have to be at all if the Polish Government hadn't claimed in many documents for a few years that this bill would have been introduced. In many documents, the Polish government promised that this law would be implemented, which is why the European Union told us to do so. I must stress here the enormous commitment of our government and both the ministers who have made a huge contribution to the work over the last two weeks, here also congratulations to the Minister's employees for their enormous commitment, and all so that this law simply be implemented. I am surprised that the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, which name themselves those who care about public money, have so underestimated the problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is very serious. We as the Law and Justice must introduce a parliamentary project, a draft by way of a message, in order to make time and that 2 billion zlotys simply do not disappear. That's about question one. Questions from Mr Andrzej Kryj, Member of Law and Justice. I fully agree with you that very often and in general, the money in this first perspective was very poorly used. They have not led to an increase in the qualifications of people, they have simply slightly increased the number of people who have gained additional qualifications. Why did this happen? There were various courses that didn't really give people qualifications. About the quality of courses There's been a lot of writing, too. In fact, the European Commission has stated that this first perspective, 2007-2013, has been poorly exploited by Poland, very poorly exploited and has not contributed to an effective improvement in the skills of people in the labour market. Then the European Commission threatened us with a finger and said that if we did not introduce the Integrated Qualifications System and the Polish Qualifications Framework, it would not actually give us 2 billion extra money. What else did the European Commission say? The European Commission said that the new perspective would be much more difficult. We already know today that it will be much harder, as the Minister said, that we will not spend this money on any courses and courses, hotels and hotels. These must be courses, postgraduate studies, which will give Poles specific qualifications, such as they will be able to use not only in Poland but also in the European Union. They will be in line with the national qualifications framework, individual certificates will set levels, and then our man, a Pole who will work in the European Union, will not have to take any kind of exams again. There was one more question. Mrs Ewa, the honourable Member has asked the question of how this will be translated into partial qualifications. Very good, because the Polish plumber who will be included in the Integrated Qualifications System will be able, having a certain level, to show the certificate and it will be recognised throughout the European Union. And what's important? You were right to speak here about the promotion of this system. It is important that our entrepreneurs are aware that it is worth to enter their qualifications into this integrated system, because it will sort out our qualifications market in the European Union and, above all, in Poland, because so far there has been quite a mess in this system. Therefore, I stress once again, Law and Justice will vote in favour, but we will be watching how this system will work, because I agree with the Members of the Civic Platform that we were not preparing it, but I must stress that it is our government - despite 8 years of work - that we had to make a lot of amendments and that I had just tabled further amendments to Marshal Brudziński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[President of the session includes Deputy Marshal Barbara Dolniak Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u123	Thank you, Member. I would ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Włodzimierz Bernacki, to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Both on December 17 and today, during the second reading of the draft Parliamentary Law on the Integrated Qualifications System, there was good compatibility, because these concerns, which were expressed by the representative of the Kukiz Club15, seem to be concerns that accompany probably all parliamentarians, and above all, that, in fact, it will depend on us, also on the executive authority, will depend very much on whether the Integrated Qualifications System will be what is important to us, important, and thus a dynamic, homogenizing factor, making this market homogeneous, guaranteeing that young, older and mature Poles will receive education, or whether this system will turn into an administrative system only. As a university employee, I have to say that the national qualifications framework, supposedly in line with the European Qualifications Framework, is a thing that makes the professors faint, but also the professor. It's just a drama. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Minister! I also address representatives of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. I hope that the integration into the Polish Qualifications Framework of all levels of education will not have such a terrible effect as the national Qualification Framework for 5, 6, 7 and 8 levels of education. I hope so. And here I also share to some extent the views of representatives of the parliamentary club Movement Kukiz. At the second reading at today's meeting, amendments were tabled by the applicant's representative Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska. This is 30 amendments. These amendments concern the part that is associated with the 5, 6, 7 and 8 levels of education. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u125	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Energy Efficiency Act (Prints No 120 and 125). I ask that Mr Maciej Małecki speak in order to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u126	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Energy Efficiency Act. The Commission examined this draft law at its meeting on 16 December. and as a result of its work, changes have been made to this project. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 of the draft law proposed a new wording of point 2, i.e. Article. 48 of the Act, which specifies the duration of the various provisions of the Act. This amendment aims to extend the duration of the existing provisions of the Act and to allow the President of the URE to complete the tendering procedures to be announced in 2016 so that all energy efficiency certificates can be issued. An article has also been added. Two and three. The purpose of these amendments is to establish the level of the obligation to waive energy efficiency certificates or to pay a replacement fee in 2016 because this level was set in the Regulation of the Minister of Economy only for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015. Today it is introduced into the text of the law so that this provision can function from the beginning of the year. And in the article. 4 set the date of entry into force of the Act as at 31 December 2015 in order to ensure the continuity of the rules. The amendments tabled in the course of the committee's work are in an orderly manner in the text of the law and complement it with transitional provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u127	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. And I will be the first to ask Mr Marek Suski to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice against the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act. High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the Energy Efficiency Act is an act designed to enable good provisions to operate energy efficiency certificates. It must be adopted this year so that there is no legal gap so that we can continue the process of good support for precisely those actions that allow energy efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we have inherited a lot of things from our predecessors that have not been dealt with when they should be dealt with, and that is why today in such a little bit even extra-accelerated mode we have to adopt some laws by the end of the year. And this is one of those left to us for Christmas as a gift of laws that should be adopted in the previous term of the Sejm, but unfortunately they have not been adopted. I recall how very quickly the Constitutional Court Act was amended in the previous term of the Sejm, how it was intended to secure seats for its nominees, how it was debated how to secure its people with high checks, earnings, various types of contracts. Of course, the Platform was very much interested in this, but when it comes to promoting energy efficiency of our energy producers, so that they could operate on the market so that the investments started could continue, Platforms and PSL were not particularly interested. PSL may have even mentioned this at times, but since they were a smaller coalitionist, and their main figure, which was to deal with energy, Jan Bury, was actually in charge of energy, but in order to do its own business, to enter electricity trading into their private company, there was no time to deal with public affairs. Therefore, this very fast process of law-proceding, therefore, can be said, fortunately, a small criticism of the former ruling camp, because they realize that it is a remorse of conscience that it is left to us to drop unsolved cases, which today we must adopt in the way of a law, which is not an urgent act, but really in the way of an urgent act. Ladies and gentlemen, the Law and Justice support the submission. We would like us to have the utmost support in working together on the opportunities for our citizens, and I therefore limit my criticism to those who have neglected to do so and leave us such a gap, only to these few statements. I ask the High House to support this project, because it is very much needed by many investors who have started investments and could not finish them and benefit from the benefits of this law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u129	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski to speak on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u130	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to present the position of the Civic Platform club on the subject of the parliamentary draft law submitted by the Law and Justice Club on the amendment of the Energy Efficiency Act, the printing no. 120 and the printing of the report of the Sejm committee. The bill that we are debating today is intended to amend the law that we adopted in 2011, namely on 15 April, on energy efficiency. A lot is being said about this project, about deadlines, and no one is talking about the complexity of this process and the complexity of this law. I'll allow myself a few sentences on this subject. The Energy Efficiency Act then implemented Directive 2006/32 of the European Community on energy end-use efficiency and energy services in 2011. This law obliges all Member States to achieve energy savings actually at each stage of production and use, from production to distribution, with a strong emphasis on the final customer. It also set the national electricity efficiency target, which was set at 9%. average annual energy consumption by 2016. It has also formulated tasks for public sector entities, the principles of obtaining and reducing energy efficiency certificates, so-called. White certificates. It also laid down rules for drawing up an energy efficiency audit. The law outlined the action plan, the scope, all of which were to be included in the national action plan. This law as if it administered, piloted the whole process, was authorized to do so, the Minister for Economic Affairs. This law was to be in place until 2016. What happened during this period? Of course, the whole process connected with the implementation of this law was functioning, permanent tenders for these certificates, then they could be bought out, former auctions, there were also penalties, everything was monitored by the Minister of Economy. But in 2012 the directive was amended, which later entered into force, which, as if it had withdrawn in 2016, limited some of the provisions of the Directive, leaving some to function until 2017. What is happening in this area? What's going on? In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, the government is preparing a new bill, working on assumptions, on a new system. We have experience already over 4 years, where you can in the work related to the preparation of the bill some things will be corrected, looked at and adopted new solutions. In this respect, I hope that this process, which is currently being carried out under the draft law which is being examined today, will extend its operation until 2017, which will allow the government to draw up a law which, on the basis of the current experience of the functioning of the 2011 Act, on the basis of the new directive adopted in 2012, will develop a new directive... that new targets will be set by 2020, will be adopted by the national government's action plan. I hope that this process will be carried out effectively and will also support this energy saving activity on the basis of a specific target by 2020. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that certain measures really need to be taken effectively and reliably, the Civic Platform, after examining this draft law, will support this proposal in plenary when we vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u131	Thank you very much, sir. And to speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15, I would like to ask Mr Robert Winnicki. You're welcome. Isn't Mr Robert Winnicki here? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] In the end? Good. In that case, I would like to ask Mrs Monica Rosa, but on behalf of the Modern Posel Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u132	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Energy Efficiency Act introduced the so-called principle. White certificates. This was supposed to be such a very important element when it comes to improving energy efficiency, but it turned out that operators who were obliged to obtain these energy savings, in most cases, because about 90% instead of fulfilling this obligation through energy efficiency, they actually paid substitution fees. Only a few percent did this by withdrawing certificates, i.e. a real improvement in energy efficiency. This is why, of course, it is necessary during the period of extension of the law, which is currently in force, to carry out a change of the system and actually to write a new law. The European Directive imposes an obligation on us to have energy efficiency. It was to be implemented in Poland by 5 June 2014. It didn't happen. According to this regulation, Member States must achieve a certain level of energy savings between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2020. Improving energy efficiency benefits both the environment and energy security, which is why promoting efficiency is one of the priorities of the European Union. It is the end of December 2015. The only option is to extend the current law and therefore we want to start work on the new law as soon as possible. We hope for consensus among all political parties on this. This new law should be of a long-term nature, promoting and encouraging action rather than merely paying replacement fees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u133	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u134	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party Parliamentary Club about the extension of the Energy Efficiency Act. Energy efficiency is a very important thing, because very often we talk about energy production, energy shortages, we scare energy shortages, sometimes we even run out of energy, while these energy shortages can be replenished, simply saving energy at every stage: from the manufacturer, through transmission, there are also very great opportunities for the consumer - and this is what the Energy Efficiency Act, which so far operates. Poland was to prepare a new law and this new law is prepared. I will no longer tell stories here, because Mr Gadowski perfectly explained how it works. And it's not, Mr PiS, some conspiracy story of history, that somebody's got electricity for themselves or something. It's just a tough bill is prepared, you've already prepared a bill. If I were you, I'd take this bill, bring it to the Sejm, sit down, work on it for a while, and I'd pass it, not make a prosthesis. But well, there's a prosthetic extension of this law, in such a way you have to accept it, not discuss it, because these solutions are needed, and you don't do around this great policy, because it won't do any good. The bill needs to be made and you've got it practically ready. It is impudent - what Mr Gadowski said - because it is a difficult bill, interfering in many environments, and agreeing on it, balancing, finding the point of gravity is very difficult. But you already have a bill. Thank you very much. The Polish People's Party is, of course, in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to ask you to address Mr Maciej Małecki at the rest of the time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr PSL, I will still allow you to refer to one sentence. I am surprised that the Member has not worked so hard on this bill at a time when you were in charge for the entire previous term of office. Then there was time to reach the Energy Efficiency Act and today we wouldn't have to hurry before the end of the year to give the president of URE the opportunity to act on white certificates. So that above all, my fellow Member, hit your own chest. On the other hand, I will allow myself to submit amendments to this draft law, amendments at second reading. The first amendment aims to include in the statutory catalogue of entities obliged to obtain and present a certificate of energy efficiency or to pay a replacement fee to final customers connected to the network in Poland who carry out bilateral transactions with delivery to the President of the Energy Regulatory Office. [[♪ The bell ♪]] at the border, i.e. before entering the national system. Failure to cover the scope of the proposed Law on the purchase of gas from foreign entities with a point of supply at the border leads to a decrease in the competitiveness of gas fuel offered by national trading companies. I therefore propose an amendment accordingly. The second amendment clarifies the obligation to calculate the primary energy quantity of 1,5% I was talking about in the first part of the speech. Thank you very much. I'm handing you over to the Marshal of Corrections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u137	Thank you very much. To speak, this time as the last one, I will ask Mr Robert Winnicki, who will speak on behalf of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project that we are currently looking at is - as the previous speakers have already mentioned - a prosthesis. However, it is worth saying what this prosthesis is about and what it is related to. The Energy Efficiency Act serves Poland's participation in the EU's energy strategy, commonly referred to as 3 x 20, thus achieving growth targets by the European Union in 2020 Energy efficiency of the Union's economies by 20%, reducing CO emissions by 20% and increasing the share of renewable energy production in the European Union to 20%. The parameters to be achieved by Poland are slightly more complex and slightly lower. The Act regulates the existence of energy efficiency certificates for the performance and marketing of them. It dates from 15 April 2011 and was the implementation of the EU Directive of 5 April 2006. It was to apply only until the end of this year, since the 2006 Directive mostly ceased to apply on 5 June 2014, it was replaced by a new directive on the same issue. The previous government should have prepared and implemented a new law on this matter, which would have implemented this new directive, and must have That's in mind. However, the proposal for a proposed law only serves to extend the current law for a year. It does not introduce any new regulations, extends the Act from the end of next year until the end of next year, extends certain provisions until 31 December 2016, 31 March 2017 and 1 April 2017 and consists of only two articles and 12 lines of text. The criticism deserves a very short, half-page justification, disproportionate to the seriousness of the regulated subject matter. The applicant did not even try to explain why he accepted such deadlines, not other ones. In the justification of the project, responsibility for the lack of a new Energy Efficiency Act was transferred to the previous government and the previous term of office of the Sejm. However, this shows that the PiS is a problem of introducing new regulations on energy efficiency by legislative and conceptual means. just as unprepared as the Civic Platform. [[The Member draws too far-reaching conclusions, contrary to logic.]] The tendency to improve energy efficiency in the economy is not a bad or dangerous direction, provided that we can adapt the goals and the pace of achieving them ourselves to the interests of the Polish economy. Unfortunately, it's different. The European Union forces Poland to experiment on the living body of Polish energy and the Polish economy by imposing the strict goals to achieve them. As there is a need to submit this law and in view of the delays that the current and previous teams have committed, we will be in favour of extending these regulations. However, as I mentioned, there are fundamental remarks about the lack of preparation of the current team, similar to the mistakes made in the days of the predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Paluch from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice has been included in the list of Members of Parliament for the purpose of the question. I would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u141	Madam, two minutes to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u142	Thank you very much. That's enough for me, Marshal. I have a quick question, though, in substance. I have a question about the state of play of the law, which will satisfy and meet the requirements for the implementation of the 2012 Directive, because it is, as you know, not enough implementation. The current project, which we are discussing, covers only, as has been noted here, the extension of the time limits for the current law, but it does not fully implement the 2012 Directive and clearly needs to be addressed. And if we are talking here about the climate and energy package, the famous 3 x 20, then we can say that energy efficiency is the only part of the climate and energy package that is worth trying to implement, because this is a rational element. Of course, things like green certificates obviously increase energy prices and lose competitiveness, I am no longer talking about this first element, while energy savings are indicated and worth doing so, it is worth taking this effort. Therefore, I have a specific question about the state of preparation that the previous government left behind, because in many cases we are dealing with such a situation that nothing has happened since May this year. The former Prime Minister was so busy traveling around the country and holding government meetings in various cities of our beautiful homeland that she was completely not involved in what the Prime Minister should be doing, i.e. managing, working and coordinating the work of ministers. So it's like in this area, what's the state of affairs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u143	Thank you, Member. I will ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski from the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to ask the question. And this is the Member who closes the list. Besides, there's no one else. So, please, sir, let me ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u144	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I could ask such a question, it was not nice to refer to the stage at which the government prepared this bill, because after all, he was going to the elections, he knew the state of the bill and that it had to be prepared, but that is not the point. That's not the point. [[You have to be brought to earth. You're rocking in the clouds.]] I hope this project is in the drawer and just waiting for the introduction. It is only a matter of when and what purpose you will adopt. But, Minister, in this bill in the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 a national energy savings target is clearly defined, set at 9% the average national energy consumption, which should be calculated in the years 2001/2005. I'd like to know what stage we're at today. on the achievement of this objective, which was put before the government in 2011, when we adopted this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u145	Thank you very much. And I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Małecki, to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u146	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I mentioned, the committee worked on this bill on 16 December this year. In the event of amendments being tabled, the information from the chairman of the committee - her meeting will still be held in the evening. I'll also remind you of the importance of this bill. The current Energy Efficiency Act, which was adopted on 15 April 2011, expires at the end of next year, i.e. at the end of 2016, but earlier the validity of certain rights under that law expires. At the end of this year, 31 December 2015, the power of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office to issue energy efficiency certificates to entities that have won tenders under the old law shall end. What's the threat? What's the effect? The fact that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office could not issue white certificates to those who obtained them and could not fully implement the results of the tenders he has announced. It is therefore necessary to complete the work on amending the Energy Efficiency Act still this year, to adopt amendments and to enter into force on 31 December - so that there is a continuity. I mentioned in previous speeches that until now the required level of redemption of certificates or payment of a replacement fee was regulated by a regulation of the Minister of Economy. And let me remind you that this regulation said that in 2013 this level is set at 1%, in 2014 at 1.5% and in 2015 also at 1.5%. The extension of this law introduces this level of 1.5% also for 2016, i.e. for the year in which, we hope, the High Sejm will adopt a new Energy Efficiency Act, which will implement the 27th EU Directive of 2012 into our law, as the previous law resulted from the EU Directive of 2006. The adoption of this law this year, this amendment extending the functioning of the Energy Efficiency Act until the end of 2016, allows the High House to complete its work on the new Energy Efficiency Act I mentioned, while at the same time giving the President of the Energy Regulatory Office the legal basis for issuing certificates to those who have obtained these certificates in tenders. Thus, thanks to this law, it is possible to rely calmly on the new legislation that will be adopted, I hope, with the cooperation of the whole House in 2016. And, referring to the statements made by the previous speakers, I would also like to ask for further substantive work in the Committee on Energy and the Treasury and to adopt the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u147	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much, and I'll manage your break by noon. 18. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 min 36 hours 18 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. The Commission for Energy and Treasury submitted a report on the draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act (prints No 134 and 139). I ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u148	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honor to present the position of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, from print No 139, to the Parliamentary bill amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources. The committee meeting, during which we discussed this printing, took place today on an adjournment basis, so to speak, and there were amendments to the original text. With regard to the assumptions, the reasons why we decided to bring the project forward, I would like to say to you that this was due to the need to introduce new solutions related to the need to regulate the issue of renewable energy sources in force in the Law of 20 February 2015. This was the first reason, while during the committee's work it turned out that there were further issues that needed to be regulated. The Commission has started work on the law. The first change we've made in the article. 1, there was a change in Article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 12, which is replaced by the following: The purchase prices of electricity from renewable energy installations with a capacity of up to 3 kW referred to above shall apply until the total capacity to be put into service does not exceed 300 MW or until the amount of electricity is changed by a regulation of the Minister responsible for Energy. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 is replaced by the following: The purchase prices for electricity from renewable energy installations with a capacity exceeding 3 kW and up to and including 10 above shall apply until the total capacity to be put into service does not exceed the threshold of 500 MW or by a regulation of the Minister responsible for energy. Article 1 is amended as follows: 222 and Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Ladies and gentlemen! The reasons why we have decided to propose these changes are to carry out an additional impact assessment and to introduce mechanisms to avoid bankruptcy and further development of existing agricultural biogas plants and to prepare the necessary regulations for the location and construction of offshore wind power plants. This is also a call that arises from many communities interested in the energy generated from wind power plants. We are aware of the need to regulate this and we declare that it will be done in the near future. In any case, in our view, the deferral of the entry into force of the law will enable the Energy Minister to complete the legislative work related to the amendment of the so-called Law. the technical purpose of removing the interpretation doubts of the legal and editorial provisions of Chapter 4, in particular in the part enabling prosumers to benefit from the support mechanism set out in Article, i.e. micro-producers producing electricity in micro-installations. 41 in the context of the possibility and admissibility of State aid. In addition, following the entry into force of the Law of 19 November 2015 amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws on the basis of which the separation of the Department took place: Energy and the transfer of the Energy Minister responsible for matters relating to the development and use of renewable energy sources, it was necessary to change the name of the body issuing the implementing rules issued on the basis of the authorisations contained in the Act. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons why we started working on the bill, while there were other reasons that I will be talking about in a moment. As far as the social and economic impacts are concerned, we believe that the project contains solutions which have positive effects. Its adoption will lead to an additional impact assessment and mechanisms for further development and maintenance of existing agricultural biogas plants. The deferral of the entry into force of Chapter 4 of the Act will also enable the necessary regulation on the rules for the location and construction of wind power plants. Furthermore, the entry into force of the proposed amendment will allow completion of investment processes which, for reasons independent of investors, could not be completed by the end of this year. The text on which we started did not, in our opinion, entail financial consequences for the state budget and the budgets of local government units. Ladies and gentlemen, this was a project on which the committee started work today, while during the work of the committee there were amendments which were taken into account by the committee and which are now included in the opinion of the committee in print No 134. Allow me now, ladies and gentlemen, to quote the wording of these amendments, at least in part. I assume that they will be discussed later in the second reading. Art. 1. The Act of 20 February 2015 on renewable energy sources is amended as follows - Article. 41 (amended 1a) 12 is replaced by the following: "Prices for the purchase of electricity from renewable energy installations with a capacity of up to 3 kW as referred to in paragraph. 10 shall remain in force until the total capacity of the sources put into service does not exceed 300 MW or until the amount has been amended by the Energy Minister's regulation. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 is replaced by the following: "Prices for the purchase of electricity from renewable energy installations with a power of more than 3 kW up to and including 10 kW referred to in paragraph. 15, shall remain in force until the total capacity of the sources put into service does not exceed the threshold of 500 MW or until their height has been changed by the Energy Minister's regulation. After the article. The following Article is inserted: 188a read: ¿1. For the first half of 2016, the industrial customer, the energy undertaking, the final recipient and the commodity brokerage house or brokerage house referred to in paragraph 1. 2, to the extent specified in paragraph 2. 7, are required: 1) to obtain and present a certificate of origin or a certificate of origin for agricultural biogas issued for electricity or biogas produced in renewable energy installations situated in the territory of the Republic of Poland or located in the exclusive economic zone or 2) to the President of the URE, respectively, to pay a replacement fee calculated as specified in paragraph 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2. The obligation referred to in paragraph 1. 1, perform: 1. the industrial consignee referred to in Article. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, which in the calendar year preceding the year of implementation of the obligation used not less than 100 GWh of electricity, and also made the declaration referred to in Article. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1; 2. an energy undertaking carrying out an economic activity in the field of electricity generation or trading and selling that energy to end-users who are not industrial customers referred to in point 1; 3. the final customer, other than the industrial customer referred to in point 1, who is a member of the stock exchange within the meaning of the Trade Exchange Act or a member of the market organised by a regulated market operator in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in respect of transactions concluded on its own behalf on the stock exchange or on a market organised by that entity; 4. the final customer, other than the industrial customer referred to in point 1, who is a member of the stock exchange clearing house within the meaning of the provisions of the Trade Exchange Act, in respect of transactions concluded by him outside the stock exchange or the market referred to in point 3, which are the subject of settlements carried out within this Chamber by the company operating the stock exchange clearing house, by the National Depositories of Securities S.A. or by a company whose National Securities Deposit S.A. has delegated the tasks referred to in Article to carry out. 48 (1) (a) 2 Act on Trading in Financial Instruments; 5. a commodity brokerage house or brokerage house within the meaning of the Trade Exchange Act, in respect of transactions concluded on behalf of final customers, other than those of the industry referred to in point 1, on a commodity exchange or on a market organised by a regulated market operator in the territory of the Republic of Poland. 3. The obligation referred to in paragraph 1. 1 for industrial customers who have made the declaration referred to in Article. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and for which the value of the electricity consumption intensity coefficient referred to in Article. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8, was: 1) not less than 3% and not more than 20% - is carried out in respect of 80% of the quantity of electricity purchased by the industrial customer for its own use in the first half of 2016; 2) over 20% and not more than 40% - is carried out in respect of 60% of the quantity of electricity purchased for own use by the industrial customer in the first half of 2016; 3) above 40% - is carried out in respect of 15% the quantity of electricity purchased for own use by the industrial customer in the first half of 2016 4. Industrial consignee who shall make the declaration referred to in Article. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is required by 31 August 2017, to forward to the President of the URE: 1. Information on: (a) the quantity of electricity purchased for own use in the year of implementation of the obligation, (b) compliance with the conditions referred to in paragraph. 3, (c) the implementation of the obligation referred to in paragraph. 1 in the case of industrial customers referred to in paragraph. point 2 (1); 2. Statement of the following content: 'Conscious criminal liability for lodging a false statement pursuant to Article. 233 § 6 of the Law of 6 June 1997. The Penal Code states that: 1. the data contained in the information referred to in Article. 188a paragraph. Paragraph 4 (1) of the Renewable Energy Act of 20 February 2015 is true; 2. they are known to me and meet the conditions laid down in Article. 188a paragraph. 3 of the Act referred to in point 1.'; this clause replaces the instruction of the criminal authority for false testimony. 5. An industrial recipient who has not provided the President of the Energy Regulatory Office with the information and declarations referred to in paragraph 1 within the time limit. 4. it has provided false or misleading data in this information or has exercised the powers referred to in paragraph. Without complying with the conditions laid down in that provision, the power referred to in Article 3 may not be exercised. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 96 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, in the years 2007 and 2021. I'm sorry, 7. Duty for the first half of 2016 referred to in paragraph 1 1. shall be deemed to have been met by the entities referred to in paragraph 1. 2, if the quantitative share of the sum of electricity produced in renewable energy sources' installations resulting from the decommitted certificates of origin or the equivalent quantity of electricity resulting from the decommitted certificates of origin for agricultural biogas or the substitute levy paid, in: 1) the sale of electricity to final customers not industrial customers referred to in paragraph. 2 points 1, or 2) of the total amount of electricity resulting from the purchase of electricity for its own use, on the basis of transactions concluded on its own behalf on the stock exchange or on a market organised by a regulated market operator in the territory of the Republic of Poland, or 3) the total amount of electricity resulting from the purchase of electricity on the basis of transactions concluded on behalf of final customers on the stock exchange or on a market organised by a regulated market in the territory of the Republic of Poland, or 4) the quantity of electricity purchased for its own use for the first half of 2016 shall be 15%. . 8. To comply with the obligation referred to in paragraph. 1, the provisions of Article. 173 of this Law and Article. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 7 and 15 of the Act as amended by Article 7 of the Act. 179 is used accordingly. 9. To fulfil the obligation referred to in paragraph. The certificates of origin referred to in Article 1 which have been surrendered shall not be included. 9e paragraph. 1 Act as amended by Art. 179, issued for electricity produced in a renewable energy source installation using energy obtained from biogas in the process of processing, for which an energy undertaking for the production of biogas has made or will make an application as referred to in Article. Paragraph 9o. 3rd of this bill. 10. The entity carrying out the sales ex officio tasks in the first half of 2016 shall be required to purchase electricity produced in installations of renewable energy sources connected to a distribution or transmission network located within the area of activity of that seller offered by an energy undertaking which has obtained a licence for its generation or has been entered in the register referred to in Article. 23 This purchase shall take place at the average selling price of electricity in the previous calendar year referred to in Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 point 18 (a) b Act as amended by Article. 179. 11. The obligation to purchase electricity generated in renewable energy installations referred to in paragraph 1. 10, shall be deemed to be fulfilled if the entity performing the sales ex officio tasks has purchased all the electricity offered to it in renewable energy installations connected to the transmission or distribution network located within the area of operation of that seller. 12. The energy company dealing with heat trading and selling this heat in the first half of 2016 is obliged to purchase the offered heat produced in connected renewable energy installations located in the territory of the Republic of Poland, in a quantity not greater than the demand of customers of this company connected to the network to which renewable energy sources are connected. 13. The obligation referred to in paragraph 1. 12, shall be deemed to be satisfied if the heat offered for sale, produced in renewable energy installations, is purchased in the quantity: 1) in which it was offered or 2) equal to the demand of the customers of the energy undertaking fulfilling this obligation and connected to the heating network to which the renewable energy installation is connected, in proportion to the share of the installed capacity of the installation in the total capacity ordered by the customers, taking into account the characteristics of the reception and transmission of the heat produced in that source, provided that the cost of purchasing this heat does not result in an increase in the heat prices or heat charges provided to the customers during the year in question by more than the average annual price increase rate of total consumer goods and services in the previous calendar year, as set out in the notice of the President of the Central Statistical Office published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland 'Monitor Polski'. 14. Where more than one energy undertaking referred to in paragraph is involved. 12, deals with heat trading and sells heat to customers connected to combined and cooperating district heating networks, the purchase obligation concerns heat generated by connected renewable energy installations, in proportion to the share of installed capacity of each renewable energy plant of these companies in the total capacity ordered by the customers, taking into account the demand characteristics and the capacity of all energy undertakings providing heat to the customers connected to those networks. Art. 222 is replaced by the following: 222. The provisions of the Article shall apply. 9e and Article 9e 9e Act as amended by Art. 179 are repealed with effect from 30 June 2016. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In point 1, entry in the calculation is replaced by the following: Chapter 4, Article. 130, Art. 178, Art. Article 179 (11) with regard to the repeal of Article. 9o, paragraph 13 on the repeal of Article. 9v, points 20, 21 and 29 and Article. 182, point 1 (a) a, which shall enter into force on 1 July 2016, with the exception of: Here for lithium. b semicolon is replaced by a comma and a point is added. c as follows: Article 53c (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 6 (6) (a) 5, Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, Article Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5, Art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) 3, Article Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, Article 39 (1) (a) 7, Art. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 13 and 18, Art. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4, Article 60, Art. 61, Art. 62, Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1, Article 73. 7, Art. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, 2, 4 and 4 78 (1) (a) (ii) 10, Art. 81. 7, Art. 110 (1), Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 113, Art. 114, Art. 119, Art. Article 126 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Articles 1 and 3 and 5, Articles 1 and 3. Article 127 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, 2, 4 and 5, articles. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 and paragraph 1. 2, Article Article 129 3, Article The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1, 2, 4 and 5, articles. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 3, Article The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. 1 and 4, 6, Art. 166, Art. 167, Art. 171, Art. 209, Art. 211, Art. 212 and Art. 218 used in various cases, the words "Economic Minister' shall be replaced by the words "Energy Minister' used where appropriate. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 The Energy Law of 10 April 1997 is amended. And, ladies and gentlemen, these changes are as follows - in Article. 9e after mouth. 1a paragraph 1a is added. 1b and 1c are replaced by the following: The certificate of origin shall not be entitled to electricity produced from 1 January 2016 in a renewable energy source installation with a total installed electricity capacity of more than 5 MW using hydroenergy as defined in the Renewable Energy Sources Act of 20 February 2015. 1c. For electricity produced from a renewable energy source in a multi-fuel combustion plant as defined in the Act of 20 February 2015 on renewable energy sources, excluding electricity from a renewable energy source produced in a dedicated multi-fuel combustion plant within the meaning of that Law, a certificate of origin adjusted by a factor of 0,5 shall be issued. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is asking you to accept all these solutions, which you can find recently in the print number - I will give you immediately, it has only recently appeared in the system - 139. On the other hand, I would like to make two more amendments. [[More?]] What are they about? It's in the article. 1 after point 2, add the following point 2a: after Article. The following Article is inserted: 194a as follows: For the purpose of determining the annual average referred to in Article. The quantity of electricity generated during the period from 1 January 2014 to the date of entry into force of Chapter 4 shall be taken into account in point 2 of paragraph 8. This is, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment whose task... Maybe I'll read the justification: Manufacturers in multi-fuel combustion plants, including dedicated multi-fuel combustion plants as referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 8 (2) as provided for in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 will be able to obtain a certificate of origin certifying the production of electricity in a given year only in a quantity not exceeding the annual average determined in accordance with Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 8 (2) of the Act. Therefore, the permissible volume of certificates of origin available to the installations referred to in that provision should be calculated for the annual averages. However, in the event of the entry into force of Chapter 4 of the Act as of 1 July 2016, this will be the average over the period of 2,5 years. In view of the above, the wording of the proposed Article should be introduced. 194a to eliminate doubts about the calculation of the energy volume for which the manufacturer will be entitled to obtain a certificate of origin. This is Amendment 1. And there's Amendment 2 to make the Renewable Energy Sources Act after Article. 2 add Article. 2a as amended by the decisions of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, the electricity tariffs or amendments to those tariffs fixed by energy undertakings for the transmission or distribution of electricity in the part relating to the charge related to the provision of renewable energy billing the availability of electricity from renewable sources in the National Electricity System shall apply from the date of entry into force of the provisions of Chapter 4 of the Act referred to in Article. 1 of this Act concerning the method of calculation and collection of the fee set up. Here, ladies and gentlemen, because we want to postpone the entry into force of Chapter 4 by 6 months, it is also necessary to regulate tariffs and settlements in relation to the renewable energy billing operator at this time. Hence Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u149	More? Is that all?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u150	No, that's all. The Commission proposes that the amendments which I mentioned earlier be adopted. These tabled now, as I understand it, will be, Mr President, still being discussed at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u151	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. I would therefore like to ask Mrs Ewa Malik to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u152	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, it is my pleasure to present an opinion on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources in Sejm Print No 134 and 139 - in the committee's report. The aim of the project is to postpone the entry into force of Chapter 4 of the Act, which will allow for the expected changes to be made - this is the result of additional analyses and impact assessments - and in the near future it will allow mechanisms for further development and maintenance of existing agricultural biogas plants in the RES market. The deferral of the entry into force of Chapter 4 of the Act will also enable the necessary regulation on the rules for the location and construction of wind power plants. Amendments to Chapter 4 of the Renewable Energy Act, however, raise some reservations, e.g. Whereas micro-producers in this market, as well as social associations fighting to clarify certain provisions in the present law or to add new ones, are justified at this stage of work because, firstly, the provisions require, due to the end of the year, an additional assessment of the effects of the regulation and the introduction of mechanisms to continue to operate under threat of bankruptcy to existing agricultural biogas plants, this is a very important issue to deal with, secondly, the amendments adopted will in fact allow for the adoption in the near future of the necessary, so expected regulation on the rules of location and construction of wind power plants, and let us remember that this dispute is currently under way, such a social dispute, and it is a very important dispute in today's reality, and, thirdly, the proposed changes will enable the completion of investment processes which, for reasons independent of investors, could not be completed by the end of this year, and electricity generators will be able to exercise their right to obtain certificates of origin. Thus, the amendments adopted by the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in the Act are intended to prevent the inappropriate negative effects of the Renewable Energy Act, which I have already quoted here. At the same time, the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice shares the view that the draft law of a group of citizens concerned, in particular those associated with associations that oppose the harmful health protection of the location of wind farms, should be supplemented as soon as possible with solutions that meet social demands. However, the requests of these organisations are likely to be included in a separate law, e.g. in the Land Planning Act. So this problem will certainly be resolved during this term of office of the Sejm and I think that these matters will be very urgently investigated in the near future. In conclusion, the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice will support the provisions of the revised Law on Seym Printing No 134 and 139 along with the amendments, and on behalf of the Club I recommend that this amendment be adopted by the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u153	Thank you, Member. And to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform will be asked by Mr Andrzej Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u154	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For a good cause, I shouldn't even use arguments for what's going on here, because I think they're gonna bounce back like peas from a wall. However, this speech and a few arguments I am giving because I have respect for the Minister. This respect is based on the fact that in the process of the RES Act in February it belonged to one of the few people in the opposition, who opted for one of the amendments, which was very controversial. I know he didn't support her because he was wrong, just because I know she was logical, and I don't want to go back to her, and I don't want to tell you what she was up to, because we both know what was going on. I want to take this opportunity to simply present the general assumptions of this change. We know that the Renewable Energy Act has been under discussion for a very long time. We know that if renewable energy were attractive, there would be no law needed, but it would simply be adopted by the system and would complement conventional energy and any other that could be cheaper than the average price in the system. This is not the case, and it probably won't be in any particular technology for much longer. But we are governed by European Union law, and we also have responsibility for future generations and climate protection. That is why we have adopted the Renewable Energy Sources Act to enable those entities to participate in the energy market to fulfil certain conditions so that they can buy energy from them. How did we come to an agreement last year? After 4 years of discussion, we have come to the conclusion that we should change the system functioning in Europe and with us, move away from the certificate and find the most rational and cheapest solution on the market, i.e. to introduce an auction, a competition for these technologies which, with the least grant from the market, not the state, not the local government units, but without the burden of the citizen, without the final burden on the consumer of electricity, will simply enable the installation of renewable sources and fulfilling this popular 3 x 20. And what do we have today? Today we are discussing not who to charge, not who to charge, but whether the government was prepared to decide or not. Because the fact that someone's using the argument that you need to help the biogas plant is a catchy subject, colloquially speaking. But the truth is, unfortunately, Minister, and you know it, the government wasn't ready to implement this good bill. Since 1 January, there are no ready regulations and the government is not prepared to introduce those provisions which would be the least costly for citizens to meet the requirements of the European Union. And that's why it's moving six months into the auction. And yet there was a discussion about this, and many lobbyists came here asking, begging for almost three months of relocation, for a month, because during this month, three months can enter our system something that doesn't have to be cheap, but which will have for years of funding. That's not what he's gonna do. And it's not that I'm going to protest some records, because they're logical, but the methodology doesn't... We discussed it so much that I could say this: every government that knew what was coming, because since February last year the law was in force and we knew that it had entered into force since 1 January 2016, should have prepared regulations, administrative decisions to ensure that the cheapest possible law respecting European requirements in our country, very modern, would apply. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform does not want to refer to particular comments, just... I will not be a prophet, but I will say that many more amendments to this procedure will be tabled, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because knowing life, it is unprepared, written on the knee, resulting only from the fact that the government was unprepared. We will not support this general amendment which postpones the date of entry into force of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u155	Thank you very much, sir. And on behalf of the Kukiz Club, 15, please address Mr Krzysztof Sitarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u156	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the amendment of the Renewable Energy Act, I present the position of the Kukiz Club15. The proposal provides for a 6-month delay in the implementation of the provisions on support for small RES sources and the rules for the auction of RES. The auction system introduced by the Renewable Energy Act was to start operating as early as 1 January 2016. The Kukiz Club15 is in favour of the extension of the national electricity system for the introduction of new energy sources on the basis, and here I will stress, for the production of Polish producers, also Polish producers operating in RES. The controversy around the provisions on support for small renewable energy sources and auction rules is enormous. The delay in the entry into force of Chapter 4 of the Renewable Energy Act of 20 February 2015 will pose a risk to micro-producers. They relate in particular to the issue of the auction system for the purchase of electricity from renewable energy installations, as well as mechanisms to support the generation of electricity in micro-installations. Investments in RES may prove to be inefficient and expenditure may increase this inefficiency even more. The micro-processors are in danger of bankruptcy. This chapter contains, inter alia, regulations on the support of energy producers under the auction system and the conditions for its sale, which are absolutely important for investors. According to Art. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5th Act in the current state of the so-called. a certificate of origin for RES electricity produced in a micro-installation or in a renewable energy source installation other than a micro-installation shall be issued for a period of 15 years, no more than 31 December 2035. There is therefore a concern that, if the amendments to the Act are adopted, the prices of property rights resulting from certificates of origin are likely to fall, which will affect renewable energy producers, e.g. small hydropower plants. Therefore, Kukiz15 recommends abstaining. Thank you very much. [[That's it, that's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u157	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Poselski Club I ask the modern voice of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas and then Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u158	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to join the voice of the previous speaker of Minister Czerwiński and say that the RES Act was actually adopted in February, so the time for its implementation was, in my opinion, enough to prepare a regulation to prepare implementing acts. Unfortunately, this has not been done and, as a result, the entry into force of these provisions is now expected to be delayed by 6 months, and I would remind you that the whole environment was looking forward to this bill, because the work has been going on for many, many years. What does this delay mean for individual groups? For prosumers, i.e. small consumers and at the same time energy producers, these were the guaranteed tariffs they expected. Some of these people invested in such micro-installations, some of which were in debt for this purpose. What can we tell them today? The answer will, as usual, be the same, that we have an unstable system, that we need to wait for regulations for the next months. For investors, for these larger investors, this means the possibility of building new RES installations and using the old system. Is this good or bad? It's hard to say. The old system knows, so it's probably gonna be a relief for some of us. Some were already preparing for the auction system, so once again, the system's instability. What does this change mean for distribution system operators? For them, it will be another unforeseen investment so far, because they will have to join the network new RES installations - built in this period of a few months - and that means less funds for other purposes, which will probably have to be shifted over time, among others. modernisation targets. So once again, losses, losses and losses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u159	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Monica Rosa.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u160	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Both the delay in the entry into force of the law and their entry into force in accordance with the original date are wrong solutions. Of course, the bill raises doubts, but on the other hand it is always difficult when the rules of the game change during its duration. We know that the government did not have time to prepare all the regulations resulting from the law, among others. on the detailed calculation of State aid. This puts the RES industry in Poland in the face of continuous regulatory and operational risks. A period of 6 months should therefore be used to make major changes to the rules, particularly in parts that concern prosumers. The challenge for investors, for prosumers, is to limit the support period to 15 years, as the period of reimbursement of the investment may be longer, usually 120 years. This calls into question the cost-effectiveness of such an investment. The second problem may be the need to declare a certain amount of energy delivered annually by the undertaking, penalties for not delivering the declared volume and the absence of a guarantee of payment for any surplus. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u161	Thank you very much. I would like to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Marshal, I'd like you to give me the print number we're discussing because we've started a debate...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u163	139.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u164	139. I'm gonna type it in because I'm gonna make an amendment, and I don't know what I'm gonna make an amendment for. This is the pace of proceding, as if the world would collapse today. This, I think, is ridiculous. The Renewable Energy Act is a difficult law, an important law requiring some sense, logic and reconciliation of all these interests, because it is the interest of our traditional coal energy, within the framework of renewable energy. In turn we have many assortments of this energy, many manufacturers, who also have different interests in this area, and the resulting law was intended to serve this purpose. Everyone thought we finally had the Renewable Energy Act. And what does it turn out to be? On Friday I find out that the bill is supposed to be blown up, and by six months we're moving the date of its entry into force. And today, what arguments do I hear here? That windmills are preventing the introduction of renewable energy. And where does this law mention windmills? You fought - Mrs PiS spoke - with these windmills for half a term and you are still pulling out these windmills. It is precisely because there will be no law, that windmills have preferential support for another six months. That's the truth. Is that the truth, Minister? And here I hear we need to protect ourselves against the windmills. So some sense and logic in all of this. It seems to me that the important thing is that we have introduced very interesting solutions to serve citizens, because it was the citizens who had to produce electricity for themselves. The citizen was to produce energy for himself and for the state, to produce cheaply, at his own place, with his own money, thus helping to secure the energy balance. And we will meet in the summer or, as the President once said, maybe in February with the fact that we are running out of electricity. And here we're doing everything we can to get these tiny little bits of energy back together and into the power grid. Because that's 3 kW, that's 5 kW. These aren't factories. That's what every citizen has already started out there. Well, maybe not everyone, but a lot of citizens started to do it and produce it. It was, of course, extra earnings, extra money for those who have the opportunity. Of course, it's not a business, but you can make a few hundred zlotys. Today we block all this, we put it off for six months. I am convinced - I do not want to be a bad prophet - that there will still be combinations that this is just such a temporary shift in time. Let's not do things like that anymore. These are really good solutions. There is no turning back from renewable energy now. Well, there's no turning back, the whole world's going in that direction. It's not some revolutionary solution, that in a year or two, we'll suddenly have only renewable energy, but these 15%. By 2020, this is the minimum we should do. That's only 15%. . If that's what we're gonna do, we're not gonna do it. We were happy that our citizens would make money. They're willing, they've already invested. What are we gonna tell them now? They took the loans, they already bought the equipment, because from 1 January they had the opportunity to join the network. That's not gonna happen. And what will you, Sejm, what will the government say to the citizens? Will they go to court with us? Because there was a bill. Can the bill now go backwards? She hasn't come into force yet. I don't know. Well, things get really, really complicated, which is why you need to be serious and reasonable with these solutions. I want to make an amendment, in fact two amendments. First of all, one which, however, will exclude these small manufacturers, micro-installations to 10 kW, so that they can produce electricity from 1 January or 2 January, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So they can put these few photovoltaic panels on the roof for a few or a dozen thousand, because that's the cost of the investment. Come on. One of the amendments will also move towards better solutions for net meters settlement, it is a better solution for balancing sold and purchased energy sales, because there is a mechanism throughout the system that periodically we settle through a double-sided counter: how much energy we bought, how much we sold. These are not huge quantities, because, as I said, in these micro-installations there are 10 kW of installed power, and how much of this will be produced, it already depends on the sun or wind. Today, too, we are saying - I also heard - that we do not have an economic account yet, a calculation, how much it will cost. After all, the bill was passed and it was all numbered. Having already had the number that your marshal kindly gave me, this report, I am making these amendments to your marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u165	Thank you very much, sir. There are eight Members on the list of Members to be asked questions. When the second Member has finished asking questions, I will close the list. Question time - we take two minutes. I would like to ask Mr Adam Abramowicz's first question from the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! From local governments and Poles who installed photovoltaic installations, micro-installations, come to us, MEPs, questions and concerns are expressed about the delay in the date of entry into force of the Act, because those who did so calculated the costs and receipts on the basis of these forecasts and previously established regulations. The situation of large photovoltaic companies, large energy producers is different from that of small farms that have decided to do so. And I have a question: What are the proposals that these small installations, the Poles who decided to do so, and the local authorities should be compensated for the fact that these regulations will be shifted over time? What are the ideas, and what are the solutions? Please answer to calm them down and dispel all the concerns that are coming to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u167	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Kazimierz Kotowski from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u168	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many have been said in the so-called. the area or outside the capital also with renewable energy sources. This was discussed during the preparation of the previous law, a great deal was said in local authorities at regional level when preparing regional strategies for the period 2014-2020, and this was discussed in the preparation of projects and the objectives of regional operational programmes. Some amounts have been recorded in these documents following negotiations with the European Commission and there are expectations. The solutions proposed at this point will delay not only the implementation of these measures - certainly many who would like to do so will wonder when to start - because this will delay the implementation of Directive 28/2009 and the increase of new capacity and production from renewable energy sources. Are we not afraid - I say: we as a country - that we will not be able to deliver on the indicators imposed by 2020? And one more short question: What about the unfortunate ones - I'm sorry - in quotes - windmills? This is one of three areas of energy generation that have already been launched. What's gonna happen to them? And does that mean that [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will investment opportunities change in this area or will it be limited? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u169	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by a member from the same club Mieczysław Baszko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u170	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft amendment of the RES Act worsens the situation of investors of micro-installations of RES with a capacity of up to 40 kW, who have prepared their investments under the so-called system. balancing the six-monthly, with the possibility of selling the surplus produced. Did anyone think of them? Why do you want to deprive Poles of the ability to earn money in electricity production? After all, the law that you are now amending introduced rules that do not guarantee a fixed price for the buy-back of electricity from small domestic sources. You voted for this project, which you now want to change. How are you going to generate electricity? The whole world is investing in green solutions. Take a look, for example. for our western neighbour - we learn, all regions learn from Germany or Austria. Our neighbour, Germany, is already generating so much energy from RES that it would be enough for our country. More projects like this, and we'll run out of electricity soon enough. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u171	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, to ask another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the government about prosumer policy. In the previous Sejm we adopted good solutions, and now the state without justification extends the time of implementation of these solutions. And as long as we have worked on this law, the then rapporteur, Minister of the Treasury, Mr Andrzej Czerwiński, spoke here. Many years. These solutions were very expected by all the environments, and they allowed micro-producers investing in power sources for their own use, allowed investment and the tariff system provided for in the Act guaranteed the rational planning of these investments. Guaranteed energy purchase prices from owners of small sources up to 10 kW and a fixed tariff for 15 years ensured that small users could reasonably calculate these prosumers. Experts estimated that there would be about 200,000. small and micro-installations. It was also an impetus for the development of distributed energy policy. That's why I have a question for the government: How do you want to conduct prosumer policy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u173	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Anna April from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u174	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. As many negative sensations have grown around wind farms, in 2014 the wind farm has grown. The Supreme Audit Office checked, checked the process of location and construction of wind farms on land. NIK has negatively assessed the formation of land-based wind farms. The municipalities decided on the location of wind farms, ignoring public objections, the construction of wind power plants were interested in the part of the persons performing functions or employed in the municipalities, [[Applause]] on which the farms were established, and the approval of the municipalities' authorities to the locations of wind power plants was in most cases conditional on investors financing planning documentation or handing over donations to the municipalities. The creation of wind farms has often taken place under conditions of conflict of interest, lack of transparency and corruption. I hope and ask you very warmly what I will ask. Do you plan to regulate the negative phenomena identified in the NIK report during this six-month period? I think that today it translates into the fact that in many municipalities the issue of wind farms raises a lot of emotions. Is this six-month period enough for that? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u175	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Marek Suski from the same club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u176	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the government representative of Minister Tchórzewski about the state of preparation for this bill, because a few minutes ago you were former Minister of Czerwiński, former Minister of the Treasury, who had energy under him, accused that the government was unprepared that the government had not prepared a bill that what we are doing here is all so quickly prepared and underdeveloped that they will not support these changes, because it is likely that the law will still have to be amended. I would like to ask the Minister about the state of preparation. I think we all remember the government's only been working for a month. I would like to ask the Minister what the previous government left behind, just you were the former Minister of Czerwiński, who spoke so loudly here about the fact that the Government of Law and Justice is unprepared and quickly introducing a law, and yet it could have been done, as he said, much earlier. I have a question for the Minister because somehow I am unable to understand Mr. Czerwinski: Who has been in power for the last eight years and who has been the Minister of the Treasury, who has also supervised the energy industry? Why didn't the guys from the last crew set this up? And why they accuse us of this, we all know, because everything bad in this world is the work of law and justice. But it is a pity that everything good, as the Minister said, is not the work of the Civic Platform and the PSL. Indeed, such an accusation, completely absurd, appeared here after a month of this government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And it's been eight years of predecessor rule, and the predecessor comes out and says the government hasn't prepared anything. I wish Mr. Czerwinski was here. Maybe he'd reflect a little and be ashamed of what he said because he screwed up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u177	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Paweł Bejda from the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u178	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Does the PiS want to impose multimillion-dollar penalties on Poles, which will be imposed on our country by projects like this? Further deferring the implementation of new solutions supporting the production of energy from renewable energy sources may result in failure to meet the 2020 targets and, consequently, the need for Poland to pay penalties for the lack of the required amount of energy... [[You should have done it.]] ...or expensive for taxpayers to buy the missing amount of energy in the form of so-called. statistical transfer from 2019 to 2020 And at least the smallest investors who have prepared their investments for the new system of guaranteed tariffs, especially those who have borrowed? Under national and EU law, they could not benefit from the grant. Are you providing assistance to these entities? There's one more thing. The Polish People's Party prepared an amendment on the biogas plant in the previous term. Law and Justice did not support this amendment, and today you are raising the threshold that an immediate change is needed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u179	Thank you very much. The last question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Jaskół of the Kukiz Poselski Club15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I'm going to be very practical about this because I represent the 28th district, and from here I'm going to ask a question that really comes from the citizens. When I heard one of the Members here who said that these were small investment expenditures, I wanted to remind you that the 1-megawatt wind power plant is a cost of PLN 7 million, so these are not small expenditures. I would like to ask you why there are no construction conditions for wind energy or windmills, popularly known as windmills in the regulation. The world in Poland has construction conditions from the point of view of distance, harmfulness, etc., and such a windmill does not exist, such a wind power plant does not exist, which is absolutely absurd. [[I want to correct.]] I would also like to ask whether it can increase from building the power of such a wind power plant, when we allow such a power plant to be built, and then 10 times or 20 times the power increases, it is expanded, because this is how we have in the municipality of Wozniki pod Częstochowa. Come on. Will there be consultations with the public, that is, how this affects the health of society, communities? My final question: Shouldn't we consider a mandatory referendum for setting up wind farms? Because I have the impression that over the last few years, when we introduce this, it turns out - and here I agree with the Member - that this activity is at least pathogenic, so as not to say corrupt, I would like to ask what the wind farms are on, and that the Supreme Chamber of Control should check which parties are concerned in this country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u181	Thank you. With a formal proposal from Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. Correct, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u182	Yes, I want to correct here, Mrs Marshal, High Izbo, because the Member did not listen to what I said or was not on the subject. Well, I devoted my entire speech to small, prosumer energy, mainly here to 10 kW. Indeed, it is several thousand zlotys, several thousand zlotys, Mr. 10 kW or 3 kW you can easily count, it's not millions or billions, it's a dozen thousand zlotys, that's what we're talking about here, prosumer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u183	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Energy, Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u184	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Well, there were a lot of questions here, and some of them overlap. Maybe one at a time. In three questions there was a thread related to those who, as part of this prosumer action, were building small home appliances generating electricity. At this point, on the basis of this draft law, these devices will be able to operate on the basis of a competitive market. So far there are over 300 such prosumer, small, home power plants and they operate on the basis of 80% the average price of the previous year. This average price of the previous year is always profitable in recent years, because energy is always cheaper and therefore always refers to a higher average price. At the same time, in order to improve the situation, in this law, in this draft law is proposed the amount of 100% the average price resulting from the competitive market, so this further improves the situation of those who may be intending to do so. On the other hand, attention should be paid to the fact that both wind farms and photovoltaics are responsible for the cost of the investment, while the cost of living is very low. As regards the second question concerning the implementation of the Directive, the Directive was implemented and the European Commission withdrew the request to the European Court. As far as matters related to the support system are concerned, as far as existing wind farms are concerned, they will benefit from the existing support system and nothing should be wrong here. With regard to power plants with a capacity of up to 40 kW, here they will benefit from what I said at the beginning, i.e. support, means they will sell at the price resulting from the competitive market. And this will also be after the adoption, after the entry into force of this law, if it were to enter into the form as it is, because the prosumer system only applies to up to 10 kW. As far as generation possibilities are concerned, the whole prosumer policy is founded in such a way that it is intended to give the possibility of generating electricity for its own needs and only what will be more than that can be sold. Such installations, as I said at the beginning, already exist and these terms of sale will be further improved, because the price, as I said, will increase from 80% to 100%. The issue of the location of wind farms is a matter of social opposition. Yes, it is. But here it is difficult to talk about some of the problems associated with this, because social protests, which often appear, are connected with the fact that these farms are located too close - that is the general feeling - places of residence, as far as people are concerned, and these health effects according to some studies indicate that they should be remote. Such provisions of the infrastructure resort prepares and this is outside the Ministry of Energy. On the other hand, with regard to the reasons and the question of the President, what is the situation with regard to preparation for entry into force, eight regulations are needed, six regulations are issued, two are in preparation. And they wouldn't actually be, they wouldn't have come into force since January 1st. Given the period of 10 months, I can say that these regulations, in terms of the system of internal and previously inter-coaling arrangements, came in very difficult and here probably were the basic reasons that were connected with the fact that it was often difficult within the framework and coalitions, and previously inter-ministerial arrangements to agree on many things, i.e. the efficiency of the government was not very great in this area. And in these cases, too, by speaking very strongly here, Mr Kasprzak should probably also bang his chest. After all, he had a considerable influence on this for a long time. And the suspension is not only related to the fact that there are no regulations, because that is the least we have considered, but the problem is that in contact with the Minister of Agriculture too, we have considered that auctions would probably lead to the fact that no biogas plant would win. We only have 72 in Poland right now. Most installations are installations that are related to waste water treatment plants or landfills, and normal agricultural biogas plants have not so far had conditions to exist. However, there is a very high social need for such biogas plants. There are many towns that spilled in the fields of dung even passersby hits very hard. And for that I'm surprised that... And here is the question of really how to solve it, because it is known that in these auctions these biogas plants would lose. The best effect, the most they would actually win for years, would be the wind farms. On the other hand, we are really wondering how to make it in Poland with at least 1000 or more, and not 70, as it is today, biogas plants. Biogas plants. In these contacts with the Ministry of Agriculture, we can acknowledge this and, as Minister of Energy, I want to support it because they have a few extra things in them. Firstly, they are part of local agricultural production. Two, very strongly support a certain environmental order in rural areas, which is the result of these large farms, which are currently becoming more and more distorted. And thirdly, however, in these smaller towns they generate jobs. Whereas farms, both photovoltaics and winds, do not generate these jobs, so for these reasons This is also one of the more important reasons why we wanted to see what could be done, so that these biogas plants also have the possibility to exist. That's one of the more important reasons, also to think about how it's going to work. I have no special concern because I would like to point out to you that, if we take into account the total installed capacity, as regards the national action plan adopted in 2010, we are systematically ahead of this action plan on a yearly basis in terms of the amount of capacity installed. As far as electricity production is concerned, as far as renewable energy sources are concerned, we are also ahead of this action plan. And the fact is that if we take into account the overall installed power, in this overall installed capacity the largest share, because as far as megawatts are concerned, as many as 4254 have wind farms if we take the third quarter of 2015. If we refer to the biomass power plant - 982, photovoltaics - 51, water - about 1,000. and for biogas - less than 200. If we look at it this way, here indeed diversity is somewhat distorted, because compared to the other three branches more than three-, four times even more power at the moment they produce wind power plants, if we consider solar power plants, photovoltaics, that is only 51 MW installed so far. If we look at the next comparison, the power plants, i.e. biogas, function, can function in a continuous form and additionally have gas storage capabilities, so they have stocks, are quite predictable when it comes to production. On the other hand, if we refer to the first two, these are solar power plants and wind power plants, then here the energy production system is unpredictable. The point is that we only get an environmental effect because we have the same power that these power plants guarantee us, we have to keep in reserve in black energy, which means we have to preserve and keep coal-fired power plants ready for this, so we have to have double installed capacity here. The initial effect is more favourable, it would seem to be simple production itself, but the final effect, in terms of costs - total costs and costs incurred by the State for securing this reserve - are very large, so in all these areas we need to meet the quantity of electricity produced from renewable sources that we have adopted within the European Union. It is to the full extent we want to implement, but we also strive to make this final effect as beneficial as possible, both for citizens and for the Polish state, so we cannot go simply in the form that we will spend money, because there is money that needs to be spent. This money is also burdening our budget, so we must remember that in the end the price of energy that the citizen has to pay is more expensive. Even if money goes to one producer, we have to watch, on the one hand, that this energy is in the range of the ecological effect, i.e. produced from renewable sources, as cheap as possible, not only because we are subsidising, we no longer look at it, we have to look at economic efficiency, but on the other hand, what was previously practiced in the Sejm is very important to fight for energy efficiency. So much for answering questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u185	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Wojciech Zubowski, will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u186	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister actually answered most of the questions that came from the speaker. I would just like to remind you once again that one of the provisions we want to introduce is to increase the amount for which energy generators will be able to sell it back to 100% when it comes to market prices, before that it was 80%. With regard to this voice that has emerged, concerning the needs arising from the deposit, as regards the arrangements with the European Union for the production of energy from RES, here, as the Minister has already said, let us remind you that in 2014 if we look at megawatts, this overproduction, which appeared on the market, was over 5 000. MW, for 2013, was over 4 000. MW. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, this is also one of the things. the reason for the fact that, as far as the Freight Exchange is concerned, as regards certification prices, they are such rather than different, because if this power were produced less, these prices would certainly be higher at this point. As regards the question of regulating wind farms, the rules on distance from buildings, etc., it is one of the reasons why, as we know, the Ministry wants to ask for the extension of the entry of Chapter 4. I think the Minister has answered the other questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u187	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading they were tabled and submitted to the bill of amendment, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Commission for Energy and the Treasury in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 9:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 mins 50 hrs 21 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, vice-president of the Civic Platform Club, is asking for the floor. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, a great youth advocate, organizer of big youth meetings in Lednica, also my personal friend, died a few hours ago. We say goodbye to him in pain. I ask everyone to stand up and celebrate the minute of silence of Father John Góra. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] [[Members: Give him eternal rest, O Lord, and let eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u189	The Committee on Education, Science and Youth has submitted a report on a government draft law on the principles of recognition of professional qualifications acquired in the Member States of the European Union. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Energy and Treasury Commission submitted a report on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. The report shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. At the meeting of the Senior Convention, opposition to the completion of the agenda was raised. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: The report of the Committee on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the Law on the Functioning of Coal Mining (Prints No 135 and 142), would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 427 Members voted. The vote was 265, against 162, with no abstentions. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. The formal proposal was made by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club. [[The voice from the hall: Oh, Jesus...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to make a request for a 15-minute break and convene a Bureau meeting together with the Bureau of the Legislative Commission. We are following the ten-hour work of the Legislative Commission, a very turbulent and very disturbing meeting. Among other things, I will point out here to the opinion of the Legal Bureau's experts who point out that the percentage of these amendments tabled by the Law and Justice Club goes beyond the scope of the submission. These are the amendments that were tabled today at hours. 14. Ladies and gentlemen, during this meeting...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u191	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u192	This is a formal conclusion. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] ...it came to an extraordinary point, i.e. He was voted out at a certain point...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u193	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u194	...proposal to adjourn in committee by a majority of 12 to 11 and adjourn until 6 January...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u195	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the room: What is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u196	...next year. A motion that has been voted on only because a few Members...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u197	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u198	... The piss came out of the gym, and then Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u199	...you're preventing me from taking the stand, and I'm gonna have to take you out.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u200	...without any legal basis... [[Voice from the room: scandal.]] ...resump. That's why I'm addressing your marshal as a law enforcement officer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u201	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. I'm telling you again. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] [[Voice from the hall: How embarrassing are you?]] [[How is it not?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u202	You're very sensitive to legal grounds, regulations... [[The Marshal shuts down Mr Krzysztof Brejza's microphone]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u203	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. Please leave the podium. [[Voice from the room: What is it?]] [[Members of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Platform hits desktops]] [[Members chant: Rules of Procedure! Rules!]] Give me...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u204	...there's an obvious record... this motion has been voted 12 to 11. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Democratic package, right?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u205	I urge you, Mr Breja, to point out that you are interfering with the proceedings of the Sejm. [[Everyone can see he's not interfering, he's not here.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] It wasn't a formal motion, so I'm not putting it to the vote. [[Voice from the room: He was.]] [[It was, please.]] [[Voice from the room: There was a formal request.]] We proceed to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of the taking of an oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński (print No 137). I ask Mr Jacek Sasin to present the justification for the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I was honoured to present the draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of the oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Prof. Lech Kaczyński. I present this resolution on behalf of the applicants who signed the draft resolution. December 23rd, in two days' time, will be 10 years after the presidential oath was taken by the dead. President Lech Kaczyński. 10 years this is a period that allows us today to look from a distance at the achievements of President Lech Kaczyński both as President of the Republic of Poland and earlier, during his many important public functions. Mr Lech Kaczyński has been involved in public activities for Polish independence and democracy since the beginning of his adult life. First, at the time of communism, he became actively involved in the work and activities of the democratic opposition on the coast. Since 1997, he has worked with the Labour Defence Committee's Intervention Office and has been working in free trade unions since 1978. During that time, he helped the coast workers as a specialist in labour law, those workers who were persecuted by the communist authorities. During the strikes on the Coast in August 1980, President Lech Kaczyński was an advisor to the Inter-Building Strike Committee. He then worked in the Independent Self-Solidarity Association, being a member of the union's management and delegate to the First Meeting of Delegates of the NSZZ Solidarity. Interned in martial law, after he was released from the Internment Center in Strzebielinek from the first days, he became involved in the underground of "Solidarity." He was, among other things, a member of the Interim Coordination Committee of the NSZZ.Solidarity. During the 1980 strike, he was an advisor to workers who strike in Gdańsk Shipyard. He took part in the round table and then actively worked in the reborn Solidarity. He was the first Vice-President of the Trade Union of NSZZ.Solidarity, actually leading the union at the time when President Lech Wałęsa campaigned and then served as President of the Republic of Poland. In the first elections of 1989, President Lech Kaczyński was appointed Senator and then in the next elections - Member of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. He served as Minister of State for National Security at President Lech Wałęsa's Office and supervised the National Security Office. He was, what is worth pointing out, the Polish politician who first formulated the thesis about Poland's need for accession to the North Atlantic Pact, and did so at a time when most politicians thought that this was not the way Poland should go, that Poland should rather seek its security in creating some new security structures, NATO-bis, EEC-bis. Lech Kaczyński was here the first to point out this path, which Poland then followed and to this day he is walking it. In 1992 Lech Kaczyński was elected President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. After that time, with a short break when he did not pursue public, political activities, he became Minister of Justice and Prosecutor General of the Government of Jerzy Buzek in 2000. At that time, he became famous as the one who threw the password - and effectively implemented it - the ruthless fight against crime. The popularity he gained by serving as Minister of Justice helped President Lech Kaczyński win the election for President of Warsaw. This was the case in 2002. Meanwhile, President Lech Kaczyński was the one who, along with his brother Jarosław, created a political party of Law and Justice... [[Voices from the hall: Uh...]] ...and he was her first president. As the President of Warsaw, he took the huge effort of unifying our capital into one urban organism, which had previously been broken down into many municipalities. It was the activity of President Lech Kaczyński and his administration that caused Warsaw, as it is today, to be one commune led by the president of the city. He was an outstanding manager. He has planned many important investments in Warsaw, which have been partly realized, such as the North Bridge, Copernicus Science Centre, the network of the High-speed City Railway, and finally the Warsaw Uprising Museum, which until today is a symbol of the presidency of Lech Kaczyński. But he also planned other investments that were prepared for implementation, and were not realized, such as Warsaw Technology Park or Krasiński Bridge. In 2005, President Lech Kaczyński won these elections and became President of the Republic of Poland. And just on 23 December 2005 here, before the National Assembly, he took his oath. Allow me to say a few more words about President Lech Kaczyński's presidency, which was the crowning of his way in public activity. This road, which was a clear, simple road, a way of fighting for independent Poland and for democratic Poland, was a road which he followed along with his companions from the NSZZ President Lech Kaczyński has first of all recognised the sovereignty of the nation as the cornerstone of his presidency. Sovereign Poland within the meaning of President Lech Kaczyński is not only a sovereign Poland in an international dimension - although it was extremely important for President Lech Kaczyński - but also within the internal dimension, i.e. the nation as a sovereign, a nation, and not all kinds of obscure interest groups, agreements, clicks, which always make a large part of the nation without real influence on how the country is governed, how Poland is governed. That's the presidency he had, that's the political line he represented. In international politics he cared about the subjectivity of Poland, about Poland's due place in the world. This was served by President Lech Kaczyński's policy in the European dimension, the European Community, where he always stressed that the European Union is an extremely important element of the modern world. He was a supporter of European integration, but based on these foundations, which gave rise to the creation of a European community, a Christian system of values and an understanding of the subjectivity of every country that forms part of the European Union. He was a supporter of a European Union where there would be no hegemone, where each country could pursue its own interests and could express its own view. He also built Poland's position in the region. This was served by strengthening relations with countries directly neighbouring Poland, including those countries which arose after the collapse of the Soviet Union. He saw the Polish interest in making Poland a leader, but the leader of the countries of our region of Europe, a leader who will not impose his will on anyone, but rather wants to build a community of free nations, free nations, which have not been established for so long for independence, but whose independence was still threatened. He has built very good relations with the Baltic States, Ukraine, the Zacaucasian Republics, but also with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Romania. He understood that this is the interest of Poland - to live in good relations with our closest neighbours. He knew that Poland's security was based on military security based on participation in the North Atlantic Pact, including good relations with the most important member of this Pact, namely the United States. This was served by the fight of President Lech Kaczyński to install elements of the anti-missile shield in Poland. He knew that only close military cooperation with the United States could really protect Poland from the dangers that flow from the East. But security was seen much more widely, also as energy security. This was served by lively contacts with the Zacaucasian republics, which served the energy summit, which was convened in 2007, which laid the foundations for the energy cooperation of the countries of our region. To this day, certain elements of the common energy policy, which were then established, are functioning. Ladies and gentlemen! President Lech Kaczyński also led the policy of regaining national dignity by us, Poles. This was served by a lively historical policy, which was finally served by a decorating policy - reminding and decorating the high national distinctions of those who deserved independence and freedom, people who for many decades were often of a worse category in communist Poland, and then the free Republic forgot about them. It was this concern for historical truth, for our achievements, for our position in the world, also built by historical politics, that President Lech Kaczyński had on 10 April 2010 to go on his last journey to Katyn to pay tribute to the fallen officers and claim the truth there, because - as President Lech Kaczyński said - building normal international relations, friendly relations with other countries is only possible and only based on the truth. You can't build a good relationship based on a lie. During this tragic journey President Lech Kaczyński and his wife and other members of the delegation died in a plane crash near Smolensk. [[The voice from the room: bombing or disaster?]] Today, on the eve of the 10th anniversary of taking a presidential oath before the National Assembly, I would like to ask the High House to accept the draft resolution submitted on the 10th anniversary of taking an oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. Let me finish by reading the proposal for a resolution. On 23 December 2015, 10 years have passed since the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński took an oath before the National Assembly. Members and senators gathered at the solemn Assembly, paying tribute to the memory of President Lech Kaczyński, express their conviction that the President, acting in Free Trade Unions, Solidarity, performing high national, social and local functions, effectively seeking as President of the Republic of Poland to build the subjective position of Poland and our region in international politics, giving justice to people fighting for the freedom of our Homeland, actively participating in the resolution of numerous social conflicts, reminding the ideas of Solidarity, which he has always been faithful, has served Poland well. Thank you very much. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u207	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jacek Sasin will be the first to speak. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Same again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Please, ladies and gentlemen, don't be upset, I will no longer repeat the information I was just giving. I would just like to speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club and, of course, by declaring my support for this resolution, to share with you the reflection on which today's meeting was based, the international conference held in the Presidential Palace, organised by President Andrzej Duda, and devoted to the legacy of President Lech Kaczyński's foreign policy. This meeting was attended by the presidents of the countries of our region - present, like the President of Estonia, but also by the presidents who are no longer in office and who were in office at a time when the President of the Republic of Poland was a dead man. Prof. Lech Kaczyński. Mr Adamkus was present, President Klaus, President Saakashvili, and finally President of Romania, Traian Băsescu. In all the speeches of the present foreign guests there was one note - that today, from the perspective of 5 years since the death of President Lech Kaczyński, one can see how wise and foresaw his policy, as he rightly called the dangers that came before our region. It was reminiscent of the famous rally in Tbilisi, when President Lech Kaczyński was able to mobilize the leaders of the countries of our region within a few hours to go to Tbilisi to defend Georgia's independence from Russian aggression. Then President Lech Kaczyński spoke about the need to resist aggression, to oppose imperialism or neoimperialism in every form in which he is presented today, regardless of what state and leader this imperialism is presenting and trying to implement practically. And he said that if we didn't stand up to this imperialism when it's far from our borders, in Georgia, he's about to knock on our borders. He said: in a moment Ukraine, the Baltic countries, and then perhaps my country - Poland. Today we see that this scenario unfortunately takes place in front of our eyes. Today it is Ukraine, not Georgia. God forbid we should be smart enough to listen today, us and the other leaders of Europe and the world, to those words of President Lech Kaczyński said then in Tbilisi and to avoid further part of this scenario. The current presidents of the Central and Eastern European countries pointed to the importance of the actions taken by President Lech Kaczyński on the integration of the countries of our region, integration around the common energy policy, but also the transport community, the infrastructure community, because it is important that we be the whole - with all our differences, with different cultures, with different history, with different interests - that we feel this community, that we are part of one central-eastern Europe and that we have one interest - to preserve freedom and democracy in this central-eastern Europe. Today, from a perspective of 5 years since the death of President Lech Kaczyński and 10 years since his oath as President of the Republic, you can see the great husband of the state of President Lech Kaczyński. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! He was a great statesman not only when he knew what choices to make in the 1970s, at a black communism time, when he stood without hesitation on the side of those who were persecuted, who were beaten, who were denied the right to exercise fundamental civil rights. He knew the way to go through the difficult 1980s, finally knew that there were some compromises that should not be made in the 1990s. It often condemned him to criticism, and it often condemned him to violent, undeserved attacks. They were also subject to these attacks as President of the Republic of Poland. However, today, in retrospect, not only do we in Poland see the achievements of President Lech Kaczyński, but Europe also sees it, the world sees it. Today's conference was the best example of this. The leaders of the Central European countries told us, Poles, that they were proud to be friends with Lech Kaczyński, that they could cooperate with him. One of the current presidents said that Lech Kaczyński was a mentor to him, that he showed him how [[♪ The bell ♪]] a policy must be pursued as to what a real policy is. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us also listen today, politicians of today's Poland, what President Lech Kaczyński had to say to us. And I ask you very much that, while we acknowledge - I am finishing - these achievements which I have just mentioned, we adopt this resolution, which has been presented to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u209	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Borowczak, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President, Professor Lech Kaczyński, I met in 1979 as a free trade union activist. It was Lech Kaczyński who wrote us the cancellations of fired workers from the shipyard, whether northern or Gdańsk or port. We worked very well in Free Trade Unions. August 1980 came. Here I will begin by correcting: Mr. Prof. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic, was not an advisor to the strike committee. You can check it out in 1980 documents, there's a whole list of advisors. President Lech Wałęsa... I'm sorry, Professor Lech Kaczyński was close to us at the time, he looked at the shipyard, we talked, but he wasn't an advisor - it's for the historical truth. Later this year, already in September, he immediately joined the organizational work of "Solidarity," he formed a legal department, he was a close associate of Lech Wałęsa. The whole martial law we met many times at Lech Wałęsa, Mr Jarosław was there, and we talked many times about what Poland we wanted to have, how we imagined our freedom. We talked for hours there. There was Adam Michnik, and Bronisław Geremek, and Tadeusz... It was such an open house for Lech Wałęsa. [[Yeah, I'm afraid so.]] Then came the martial law. Many of us were interned, including President Kaczyński. I think he's been sitting on us for the longest time, 'cause until October. After leaving the internment, he immediately became active, collaborating with the secret national commission, I say, he was a close associate of Lech Wałęsa. Later there was a strike in May 1988 and also the president was with us, and President Lech Kaczyński. August came, there was a repeat. A round table - he also worked closely with Lech Wałęsa. Then the election: Lech Wałęsa ran for President of the Republic with the help of President Kaczyński, President of the Republic and won these elections with great help... I must stress this because I have seen this great commitment to convincing people that Walesa is the only one who can lead us to freedom. And you were right: it was Lech Wałęsa who decided that there were no Soviet troops here, [[Applause]] Lech Wałęsa decided that Jelcyn agreed that Poland could be in NATO. That's why I'm talking about it, 'cause it's gonna be in order... I wanna talk about it, and that's how I look at time. This cooperation was very good. Lech Wałęsa couldn't imagine that he wouldn't take the Kaczyński brothers to the President's office because he knew them, he wanted them with him. And he did, but soon, but I will no longer say whether it was Wachowski or President Lech Kaczyński and Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, because the conflicts were on the agenda there. But let's not forget that Lech Wałęsa had an impact on the Russian army's departure and that Jelcyn in Warsaw agreed to Polish participation in NATO. [[Voice from the room: Not this resolution.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform, I would like to propose an amendment to this text. So improbably, Mr. President, so that we, the people of August, don't lay down, because it never made us friends. [[Applause]] Or an attraction in the world. We, the people of Solidarity, Mr... And no one's gonna question that you're asleep. Prof. Lech Kaczyński was a man of solidarity. Many times, even when he was President of Warsaw, I could have called him and answered his phone. He's a great man. [[Applause]] I don't think he could look at what we're doing today. And from here, Mr. Marshal, I would like to make such an amendment: On the 25th anniversary of taking an oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Wałęsa and on the 10th anniversary of taking an oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. On 22 December 2015, 25 years after the first President of the Republic of Poland Lech Wałęsa took the oath, [[Applause]] On 23 December 2015, 10 years have passed since the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński took an oath before the National Assembly. [[Applause]] Members and senators gathered at the solemn assembly, paying tribute to the memory of the two presidents [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] believe that working in Free Trade Unions, Solidarity, with high public, social and self-government functions, they pursued effectively [[♪ The bell ♪]] o building an individual position of Poland and our region in international politics, giving justice to people fighting for our Homeland's freedom, actively participating in the resolution of numerous social conflicts, recalling the ideas of Solidarity, which they have always been faithful to, have served Poland well. [[Jurek, shame on you. Shame on you.]] Mr. President! Requesting backup. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform rise, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u211	Thank you. With a formal motion, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u212	With a formal application, of course. I would like to ask for a break and a call for the Senior Convention to be given the opportunity to explain simultaneously to Mr Borowczak, which I do not deny at all, that Mr Wałęsa is alive and that, therefore, the adoption of a resolution on his memory is irrelevant. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u213	Before I announce a break, the following information is to Mr Borowczak. I accepted the amendment from the Member, except that I will ask the Member to repeat, briefly, in his second reading, the amendment, because in accordance with Article. 44 amendments are tabled at second reading. I'm ordering a five-minute recess, and I'm asking the Seniors' Convention. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 54 hrs. 21 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 7 of the agenda. Mr Ryszard Petru, the Modern Posel Club, will speak at the moment. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u214	May I?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u215	There you go. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're not going to make any amendments. I think we should worship great Poles whether we agree with them or not. However, it is important to remember other great compatriots during all these occasions. I have a request and an appeal to the government majority to celebrate the same solemn moment next year when Mr Tadeusz Mazowiecki's first non-communist prime minister was appointed to the office of Prime Minister of the Republic. This is a request for a government majority. It was August 1989. [[September 12th.]] The premiere, not the government. It's premiere. President Lech Kaczyński deserves respect. I didn't vote for him, but he was also my president. In many aspects of respect for tradition, the principles of the rule of law, the importance of institutions upholding the Constitution, in my opinion, has been permanently included in the history of the Republic of Poland. I wanted to quote a few quotes indicating his great respect for the law and the constitution. In 2006, President Lech Kaczyński said: It is normal that the case law of the Constitutional Court, the ladies and gentlemen of judges, may be discussed. But this does not change the fact that this discussion, especially after the ruling, is only theoretical because, according to our constitution, such a ruling has universal force. [[Applause]] He also had respect for the civilian service. 6 December 2007: In Poland today, in principle, people who are in the so-called state should work in higher positions. Civilian Service Corps. You have to pass the proper exams to a certain level, these positions are basically on the way to the competition. The assumption is apoliticity, I quote you - that the new government, the new minister, comes and has in his hand a camera that works, is sharp as a razor and performs the actions that are entrusted to him. President Kaczyński also took into account the demographic trends that I personally am particularly close to in his decisions, because I have been dealing with pension issues for years. 15 December 2008: I do not question at all that there is a problem in Poland of too early retirement. Given the demographic changes in our country, the ageing population, in the interests of our country and its citizens, is to increase the retirement age a little bit, and in the long term to increase quite substantially. President Kaczyński said: No system, not only Polish, such a proportion between people of retirement age, i.e. those who retire, and those who work will not survive. [[Applause]] I would like to point out that when we honor the President's memory, we should also remember what he said, because many of these quotations are really very up-to-date today. I would like to say, on behalf of the Modern One, that we will vote in favour of the resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u217	Please. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u218	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish People's Party, I would like to pay my respects. Mr. President Lech Kaczyński. In his statements, President Lech Kaczyński repeatedly spoke about the social teaching of the Church, which is very close to the people's movement, the Polish People's Party. He also spoke with dignity about the Polish village, about Polish farmers, about local Poland. I will refer to a very important quote for us, perhaps not referring to the things presented by Mr Petru, to contemporary events, but reaching a little to the future, and referring to fundamental values that are very important. Let me quote President Lech Kaczyński's words on 12 November 2008: People are born in different families, they have completely different socialization conditions, or upbringing. The task of the state - and for me the local government - is also the state - because of two elementary values: solidarity and justice, is to compensate for these differences as far as possible. This equalisation of differences between different levels of development, sometimes struggling with social exclusion, about which President Lech Kaczyński spoke, for the Polish People's Party, for the whole folk movement, which was based on equal opportunities, is extremely important. It is also extremely important to approach self-government as one of the most important institutions of the Polish state, which meets the needs of the nation, because it is the self-government that expresses the needs of the nation. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to remember in this fever often the great emotions that accompany us all in recent weeks, in the decisions we have made, in manifesting our views, those values which have been repeatedly invoked by President Lech Kaczyński, about respect for another man - it is important not only for those who are in opposition today, but I think that this is also important, very important for those who are the parliamentary majority today - about mutual respect for different views and political biases. This is what Mr Sasin was talking about, about the fact that this diversity is inscribed in the Polish reality and must have proper respect for it. Ladies and gentlemen! It would not be possible to continue the policy of the Polish state in terms of historical and contemporary terms, but it would not be possible to continue the Polish state without the act that took place on 22 December 1990. Tomorrow will be 25 years since this event. It was the transfer of the insignia of the power of the Second Republic of Poland by the dead. President Ryszard Kaczorowski, the last President of Poland in exile, [[Applause]] the first freely elected President Lech Wałęsa. And it would not be possible to continue the mission of the sleeper. President Lech Kaczyński without this act of handing over the insignia of power, the banner of the Polish state, the seal of the President of the Republic, state documents such as the constitution, the insignia of the Order of the White Eagle and the Order of the Rebirth of Poland. These two important dates, the transfer of insignia and the merger of emigration and emigration, the Polish government and the democratic government, with the president elected democratically... For all the next presidents, including President Lech Kaczyński, it was very important to hand over these insignias. This is the community of the state which combined emigration with national reality, those who did not accept the Yalta order, those who remained in Poland and created reality, Polish reality. It is very important for us that in these days, when we adopt this resolution, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party supports, remembered the continuity of the history of the Polish state. I would also like to mention that on the last trip sleep. President Lech Kaczyński was accompanied by three members of the Polish People's Party. It was sleep. Mr Wiesław Woda, my President, the President of the Malopolska people, with whom I had the opportunity to be raised, the President and Member of the Lublin region Edward Wojtas and the Member of the Podkarpacie Leszek Deptuł. This commemoration of President Lech Kaczyński in our feelings is also a commemoration of those three Members and all who died in the catastrophe near Smolensk. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u219	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. I'm opening a discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've modified my amendment on this text, and I'm about to hand it over to the marshal. Mr. President, thank you for this convention, for the first time I've been there, and I'm happy for that, too, and that you're being listened to so much that [[Applause]] As you wish, it is, as you wish, that this resolution be so... [[Calm down. Calm down.]] I'm sure it'll be like this. Mr President, Prime Minister, Lech Wałęsa is such a man, perhaps the only one for Poland as a whole, or perhaps Europe, [[Applause]] There's a name for his airport, and he's alive, there's schools in America, the streets... [[Voice from the room: But there will be no more.]] It's not that, Mr. President... [[He'll be done.]] The point is just to appreciate that these two presidents, derived from the Solidarity together, that it's really... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And Lech Kaczyński and Lech Wałęsa. Two Lechs guided Poland nicely and at war, and then at the round table... [[Jurek, stop it.]] [[Calm down.]] So many... It was the Kaczynski brothers who screwed Jaruzelski because it was the Kaczynski brothers who invented the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] To make a coalition against Kiszczak, the Kaczynski brothers, I say it and Lech Wałęsa says it... [[Bravo!]] ...and that's what they deserve. [[That's right, and bravo.]] And that's why I say, let's not share, let's judge people equally. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Cancel the amendments.]] Okay, Mr. Marshal, because I'm running out of time. I've modified this tribute... [[Take it back.]] Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Jurek, back it up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Sasin, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Such a resolution as that which is proposed today by the Members of the applicant, signed under this resolution, is a kind of monument, a kind of epitaph for the person whose way of life is already closed. I very much thank all those who at first reading declared their support for this resolution, and I would ask Mr Borowczak and the Civic Platform Club to consider this amendment, because unfortunately I have the impression that it is not about honoring Lech Walesa, whose presidency we can judge differently. [[Voice from the hall: Kaczyński too.]] I am one of those who voted for Lech Wałęsa in 1990, and I have the right to feel deceived, I have the right to feel disappointed in this presidency. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we may be different here, but I would like this overall assessment of Lech Wałęsa's way of life not today, as it were against Lech Kaczyński... [[Together.]] ...against honoring the memory of President Lech Kaczyński, because unfortunately I feel that is the intention of this case. [[Yes, sir.]] I wish you, ladies and gentlemen, President Lech Wałęsa, many more years of his life... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Tomorrow is the 25th anniversary!]] ...and so that we don't adopt a resolution that sums up his life for a long time, even though I disagree with what he's saying today... [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strzycharska: And you can do it together.]] ...and what political solutions he's proposing today. I ask you once again to consider whether it is worth celebrating such an outstanding Pole and the husband of the state as Lech Kaczyński to propose amendments, which must, however, cause some kind of disturbance, have to share us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u223	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. As an amendment to the draft resolution submitted was tabled at second reading, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on the draft after the text has been delivered to the Members. If I do not hear opposition, I will understand that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 10:30. [[Voice from the room: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 minutes 13 hours 22 min 30]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 7 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of taking an oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. The Sejm carried out the first reading of the draft resolution and the second reading of the draft resolution during which the amendment was tabled. The Sejm decided not to send the draft resolution to the committee. I would like to inform you that the amendment tabled for print No 137 has been notified to the ladies and gentlemen. In the amendment, the applicants propose a new wording to the draft resolution. Its adoption will result in the unobtrusiveness of the print proposal No 137. We're coming... [[Game in the O.R.]] I would like to proceed with the vote. [[Voice from the room: 2 minutes.]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. [[It's not working.]] [[What's not working?]] [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 125 Members voted against - 269 Members - 40 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft resolution. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print No 137, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. The vote was cast by 420 Members against 1 Member and 17 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on the 10th anniversary of taking an oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Of course, the vote is over. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 mins 33 hrs. 22 min 37]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax (print No 136). I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to state the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would like to ask those of you who are going to talk to me about moving the talks to the cockroaches. [[Game in the O.R.]] Once again, I ask those of you who are not interested in this item to move the talks to the kluuarskis. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of Members of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I submit a draft amendment to the Act amending the Act on Personal Income Tax. The purpose of this short amendment is to clarify the content of point 16 of Article. 1 so as to clearly indicate the title, why we charge this 70% VAT rate. This is the nature of the contract concluded and the contract for the provision of services, with clear emphasis on the fact that the substance of the matter is that the contract for employment and the contract for the provision of services are intended to concern management. Since the amendment of 25 November 2015 raises questions of interpretation, there is an urgent need for such a short amendment, and I ask for its support. Thus, in view of the change that we are introducing, the 70% tax rate will only be charged to those employment contracts which are subject to management activities and management services contracts where, due to compensation or compensation resulting from the termination of such contracts before the date on which they were concluded, or when the period of termination of such contracts has been reduced, income will exceed three times the monthly remuneration received by the taxpayer. The second article, which concerned compensation for the prohibition of competition, remains, of course, unchanged. Thus, to sum up, the point is to stress that the agreements covered by this high rate of PIT are employment contracts and the provision of management services, the employment contracts covered by the management contract and the provision of management services as well. Therefore, in order to settle in time before the Act enters into force on 1 January, these doubts are simply proposed to make such a small change. This situation stems from the consultation, from the signals we have received recently from different backgrounds. And since the Law and Justice are constantly engaged in social dialogue, dialogue with society, on every matter, we are trying to react quickly. I ask you very warmly to support this short amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u225	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Maria Zuba, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present to the High House my position on the draft law amending the Act amending the Act on Personal Income Tax. The amendment proposed by the Group of Members is a clarification amendment as set out in point 16 of Article. 30. I would like to remind you that the regulation contained in point 16 aims to counter the spread of a very unfair practice of paying to members of the board of directors of companies with the participation of the Treasury of high compensation and compensation for the prohibition of competition. At this point, it was accepted as a standard that compensation for the prohibition of competition would be paid in the amount of 12 salaries, that such a solution is the optimal solution and should satisfy the board member. On the other hand, the amount of checks, as the applicant's representative said, was set at a level of 3 months' pay. And now, at a time when these compensation fees are higher than the 12-month salary, this surplus will be subject to a tax of 70%. the compensation due or compensation due. In the current draft law, the designers propose that, for the sake of clarity of the provisions where the employment contract is referred to in point 16, the provision be clarified by specifying which management activities are the subject of. As a result of the provision, all persons who receive compensation or compensation will be excluded from 70% of the tax, although they have worked under a contract of employment but have not carried out management activities. They'll be exempt from 70% taxation. Therefore, for the sake of clarity of the provision, we propose that, where there is a provision on the employment contract in point 16, the subject of which is management activities, in order to make it clear that this 70% tax is covered only by compensation paid to persons who have carried out management activities. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to inform the High House that we will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u227	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, now has a voice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft parliamentary bill amending the Act on personal income tax, print No 136. This project is not a new, good change, and complements the draft legislative proposal of the same group of Members of Law and Justice, the draft law amending the Act on income tax on natural persons introduced in the Sejm on 18 November 2015, print no. 22 and then, after a very rapid procedure, adopted on 25 November. The president signed the bill on November 29th. It would seem that this is a good, fast pace, but the Prime Minister says that we need to work quickly. Unfortunately, it is rather chaotic work, working on your knees, in a huge hurry, without consultation and opinion. That's not the way to make a good law. During the first and second reading of print no.22 we pointed to serious errors in the project, lack of complexity, unconstitutionality. We were talking about the Stick-up Act, which could make it a dead recipe. The majority of the government did not listen because the PR effects were important at the time. We didn't have to wait long, because even a month after the date of impact of the first project we received a new project, today processed print no. 136. The draft amends the warm law in this case, as it amends the wording of point 16 on the taxation of compensation or compensation against management or management services contracts under a contract concluded with the company. This proposal is to enter into force as from 1 January 2016, as was previously adopted in this case. These laws are closely linked. Are these all the necessary changes and new regulations to achieve the objectives pursued by these laws? I don't think so. I don't think so. But unfortunately, by the end of the year there is no longer any possibility of further clarification and introduction of new provisions. In terms of content, it should be stressed that this is not a good solution for the coherence of the tax system. It's more like a tax violation. High clearance issues in state-owned companies can be solved much easier and more effectively in contracts and contracts. We will monitor the effectiveness of the rules adopted. To conclude, I would like to say that the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club will abstain from voting on this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u229	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Rafał Wójcikowski is now on behalf of Kukiz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Nice to meet you. On behalf of the Kukiz Club,15 I wanted to present our position on the amendment of the Act on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act. High Izbo! I feel like it's some kind of déjà vu that I've been here before on the same case. It hasn't been a month and I'm presenting my position on the same case again. There is only one amendment, namely the present law narrows down what we agreed a month ago, what we adopted a month ago. I understand that this is a correction, a de facto correction of the Law and Justice Club, in order to narrow down the number of people who will pay this special tax related to compensation and clearance, only to those who are in fact managing the company and not to those who are doing work there in relation to other activities than management, i.e. production, with some elements related to specific... [[Consulting.]] ...actions. But the question is whether consulting is management or not. And how will the word "consulting" be defined, then what? Second thing. We wouldn't want to debate the same thing every month as a club in the future. The seat for adoption of the amendments is the Sejm Committee and, therefore, sometimes really, as it turns out now, it is better to give ourselves a few days or even a week to reflect on and to listen to the more resolute and thoughtful amendments of the Legislative Office rather than simply adopt something as soon as possible. We understand why the speed of adoption was so, not different. On November 29th, he signed the President's bill so that she could enter into force on January 1st. Now it can be improved because we narrow the matter down, so always the interpretation is that we are acting in favour of the taxpayer, so now, in December, we can announce it. However, at this rate, if we adopt laws, there will be laws where we will need to extend some interpretation of the rule and then we will no longer be able to apply such a provision temporarily. The Kukiz Club15, like the previous one, is in favour of unfairly awarded compensation, unfairly granted checks being taxed as much as possible in relation to a fair tax. For us, taxation of these checks and compensations for people who have often spent several or several dozen days in their positions is taxation of 70% is as fair as possible and we will vote again in favour of this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Długi will use the remaining time for the Kukiz club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. Just a very short remark. Or rather, a proposal to make the self-correction possible. It is the editorial of paragraph 16, however, that it should be in a certain consensus with paragraph 15, and that it should specify that this, let's call it, special taxation only applies to this surplus beyond what is proposed here. I would therefore very much ask that, as in point 15, where it is at the end: 70% This part... There is talk of due compensation, and here we have to write: 70% that part of the check-in due. We'll be clear and avoid further trials. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u233	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Modern Club, is now speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And this is how the law is established in Poland: quickly, because time is chasing, with errors, gaps, understatements, because it is necessary to take over power in companies of the Treasury and to fill their most profitable positions. A rapid legislative process was needed to ensure that Law and Justice without greater costs and consequences could cause political tsunamis in the Treasury companies. The law was proposed, passed and passed the entire legislative process within a single meeting, without the participation of experts and analyses. The opposition, practically all the gromko clubs said there were many gaps and misconceptions. Today, less than a month later, we're going back to this room with the amendments. The Prime Minister has recently been appalled that the Modern Club systematically has comments on the process and speed of lawmaking in Poland. On this occasion, Prime Minister, if you're with us in the courtroom... [[Of course.]] ...explain that we are not tired of the pace of work. We really can work hard. We just want to be a good law, not a bad law that still needs to be corrected. We do not want to be a law that merely fakes changes. We do not want to be a law which aims to quickly extinguish fires and at the same time to trigger new ones. Unfortunately, this was the case and is still the case with this Income Tax Act introducing a 70% tax on checks and bans on competition in State Treasury companies. Let us remind you that, as we all know, with regard to salaries, bonuses and severance payments in the Treasury companies, we are generally dealing with pathology, and as a club, we supported the direction of change and said that the sphere is sensitive, important and needs to be sorted out, but we have pointed out that many things are unfinished. It is very good that today's amendment specifies that a high, 70% tax will apply only to those employment contracts which are the subject of management activities. It is important that he does not take money from ordinary workers, because we believe that if in their case the employer permits a longer ban on competition or a longer period of check-in, it has its substantive and not political justification. Further, however, the list of doubts is long. We continue to believe that this tax can be passed smoothly by signing a net contract. And unfortunately, we are not able to make any adjustments in this matter. In this case, the person receiving the check will receive a certain amount and the company releasing the manager will incur an additional loss, adding 70% tax. The Treasury won't gain anything. Back to the bill, did the applicant take care to verify the compatibility of the provisions with the constitution this time? Probably not, so we still do not know whether the State Treasury will be exposed to costs related to possible legal proceedings and damages. The principle of taxpayers' equality in the tax system is one and the other is a question of the principle of tax certainty or trust in the rule of law. The employee of the company may not know its ownership structure, so in practice he may find out how high the tax will be paid only when it is charged. Not to mention that the structure of the company may change during his work in the company. It has also been pointed out in the meantime that the tax is intended to cover payments made by companies of the State Treasury or local government, but no longer applies to state-owned enterprises, state agencies, government agencies and other state-owned legal entities, where similar practices often exist. In conclusion, I remind you that when law is created, it is primarily about being effective. How to remove pathologies in companies of the State Treasury? Depoliticizing state-owned enterprises. We talked about this before, we're talking now. But today we know that Law and Justice have no intention of doing so. Recent nominations in the field of state-owned enterprises clearly show that the long-term colleagues of your President, not professionals, will be placed in key positions in the Treasury companies. It was supposed to be a quality change, and there's just a name change. Nevertheless, we will support the amendment because we believe that it solves one of the previously reported irregularities, but I think it would also be worth sending the bill back to the committee to correct a few more things in it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u235	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Genowefa Tokarska, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, I would like to present a position towards the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the amendment of the Income Tax Act. I would like to remind the High House of how the proposal on this subject was being examined, already revised today, adopted by the High Sejm, because it was passed by the High Sejm several days ago. The project concerns increased taxation, 70% compensation and compensation in companies of the State Treasury. The High Chamber on 25 November this year. within one day of the procedure, it adopted a law, i.e. First reading, later the Committee on Public Finance, second reading, third reading and voting on the same day. For the record, my club considered the bill to be socially justified despite such a procedure and voted in favour of it. At that time, I asked for reflection to consider whether this should be the case for good legislation. I said it was impossible to adopt good law at such a rate, especially as it was a parliamentary project, so it was not even consulted inter-ministerially in the government. The project did not contain any opinion, and I stressed this at the time, the analysis or positions of the institutions which had the right and the duty to comment on this matter. Moreover, the legislative process continued to look similar. One day in the Seym, one day in the Senate, of course without amendments, and after four days of course the bill was signed by the President. And there were also many opinions that this is an unconstitutional project, for example because it differentiates entities. It hasn't even been a month, and we have a change to that project. And it's not an amendment, it's a new bill, because here one of you said it was an amendment. It's hard to call it an amendment, it's a new bill. And it would really be right to say, like they say, what did I say? And what does it look like, ladies and gentlemen, to justify this new project? I made a print. Soon, I don't think the PiS will give any justification at all, because for what reason, Mr. Marshal will vote. I would like to ask you today as clearly, as gently as I can: Are you not ashamed of such projects? I know her personally, she is also from Lublin, the applicant Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, I have known her for many years, I have always respected her, I could point out as someone who is reliable, accurate, serious. Today, I ask you, Madame, if you are not ashamed of the procedure and the project and the project. The project was one of the first to be processed instantly. I'm sure those next ones, taken at such a rate, one-day-night stand, mostly, are similar, and they'll definitely come back with the next shift, because that's not how it's gonna work. Unfortunately, my club, not because of the subject matter, but because of the procedure, the procedure, will not support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u237	Thank you very much. Two Members joined the questions. I'm shutting down the list of people who are enrolled in the question. The question is asked by Mr Łukasz Schreiber, a club called Law and Justice. The time for questioning, sir, is one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u238	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to remind you of a few things. Firstly, we have already made this novel clear and clear, as Mr Królikowski stressed today, that the pace of the work was due to the fact that the law could enter into force at all, from 1 January this year. Secondly, I understand that all these voices and regrets that this law is so wrongly adopted also concern your work. Please remind me of the amendments made by any of the Members of the Platform, the Modern or the PSL. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: It will be difficult, Mr...]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[A voice from the hall: It is a shame!]] ...the idea of how to improve it then. [[Voice from the room: Because there was no time to think.]] From this speaker, when I reported on the work of the Committee on Public Finance, I made it clear, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that we will also need to clarify certain things at a rapid pace. That's what this novel today is all about. It's the first reading. Tomorrow or soon, I understand, in the Committee on Public Finance, we really need to work out the rest of the solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u239	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr President, here's the thing: you're throwing in a project, you're not wondering what you're throwing in... [[We're not.]] ...you write it somewhere on your knees, you sign your MPs in the dark, you don't give you time to analyze it. [[How do you know?]] So how is this House supposed to process these projects so that good law comes out of it? You can't, you just can't. If at hours. 12th, you drop the project at 12 o'clock. 13 is the first reading, at 3 p.m. 14 - 2 p.m. 15 votes on the bill, no one can really do anything about it. That's not the way it is, and that's why I have an appeal. Even if there is a situation that we have little time and a project needs to be introduced, let's try to sit on it, think about it, listen to experts, listen to the Parliamentary Office and analyse all the arguments that fall down during the debate. [[Yes.]] Let me remind you that we have made a lot of these arguments here, and you would not listen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask you a question, Madam President, is it clear, because it has been a little while since the provisions of this law came into force, how many people will be covered by this provision? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u241	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Will there be answers to questions? Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Mr Konrad Raczkowski. You're welcome, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Konrad Raczkowski: Ask me a question? But that question was for the applicant.]] Well, yeah. Are you the Minister? No, it's okay. Thank you very much. Therefore, does the applicant's representative wish to speak? [[Yeah, a few sentences.]] Gabriela Masłowska. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u242	High Izbo! Drafts of laws, which we often process for weeks and months, also need to be amended, but only if they are being worked at such a rapid pace. Because we're already making the first amendment, I'm not going to be ashamed. The pace of this work, you know very well what the result is. It is precisely because this law must enter into force on 1 January in order to reduce all the pathologies, irregularities that are taking place in our economy, in our social life, and which consisted in the fact that a narrow social group benefiting from different political and personal links was given huge amounts of compensation and compensation, even in situations where employment contracts or service contracts were concluded at the end of the previous year in order to benefit from such high checks of several hundred thousand, several million. Recently, I don't know if you know, some companies have called supervisory boards, changed boards. Why? So that the old board would not benefit from these large ones, it was not covered by this law after 1 January, i.e. that it would still benefit from the very friendly rules for this narrow group. This situation is socially unacceptable, and there is no economic justification for the rational operation of these companies and it was necessary to put an end to the matter as soon as possible - to put an end to it, ladies and gentlemen. At the last meeting of the Sejm, one of our vice-ministers reported the amounts in one department only, in recent times, which large checks have been made, which large checks have been paid. In the situation that we have, the social, budgetary - in the explanatory memorandum at first reading of the previous project I spoke about it in detail - there is no social consent, there is no social consent to maintain this legal state and this fact any longer. This is why we wanted to implement legislation that created a barrier to such practices as soon as possible. Our economy, our society cannot afford to be favoured in this way - unjustified - a very narrow social group. You're saying there's no time for corrections. We have time for adjustments, you can submit them. Someone from Kukiza's party proposed a clarification amendment. We're open to writing it, it makes sense, we accept it. There you go, we're waiting for other amendments. On the other hand, on the part of the others, PSL and the Modern Party, we still hear some general allegations: and this is unconstitutional... And what if there are contracts in net amounts concluded and the Treasury will have to pay? We explained it in committee, such situations are unacceptable. This means that the State Treasury is consciously exposed to damage, and those who allow it should be held accountable immediately. We need not be reminded, Madame, that the law should be perfect. It is not necessary to remind us that we need to work properly on the laws that are in the process. Don't remind us of that. We know very well, we are aware of the role of law and the need for a stable law, maintaining citizens' confidence in the rule of law, etc. We do not need to be reminded of this, but there are, I say, situations when we have to make a novel, sometimes quickly, and also if we are working on laws after a few months, there are constant amendments made and this is a thing, I think, normal. One of you has stated that this does not apply, for example, to the agency. Sure, it should cover the agencies, too. I personally believe that other institutions should also be included. There is also an eldorado there, especially some of the representatives of certain parties, also present here in the Sejm, and I do not want to point a finger anymore. So, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, at this moment, there was at least such consensus in law and justice as to first limit this law to this scope. Probably if we were to expand it, then it would be only then that you would raise a large amount that we are hurting others. Now it's too short a reason. A brief amendment is also a short justification. And I really don't see any reason to be ashamed of anything here. If we put a few words in the text of the bill, what would you expect to justify, how extensive? I don't really know. Now, here's the thing -- how many people are gonna take it. Sir, I think it'll be easier for me to talk about what amounts we can get through this, what savings we can make. These are amounts of several, several million zlotys, that's how we estimate it. I sent a letter to the Minister of the Treasury with detailed questions in this regard - the Minister of the Treasury in such a short time too, I think, cannot have a 100 percent insight in this matter - a very detailed letter. I think in the next two weeks I should have a more detailed understanding of the number of persons covered by this law. I repeat, if you have amendments, please, we expect them, we can consider them on the committee, but what we see and what was important because of the information we received from Poles, from interested people, and the questions in this regard led us to this amendment in such a short time, at this point in time, so as not to hurt anyone, without losing sight of the purpose of this law. The idea was not to hurt those we did not intend to treat in any way so that instead of improving their material situation, we would contribute to its deterioration - it is about ordinary workers. That wasn't the intention. So it just had to be clarified. And that's it. Thank you for your attention and thank you for the water. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u243	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the amendment of the Act on personal income tax, contained in print No 136, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy and the Treasury on the draft law amending the law on hard coal mining (prints No 135 and 142). I ask Mrs Ewa Malik to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, at the meeting of the Commission for Energy and the Treasury, a discussion was held on the draft law amending the law on the functioning of hard coal mining brought to the session of the Sejm by a group of Members. The applicants justify the need to adopt a proposal to amend the Act of 7 September 2007 in order to quote a section of the justification for this project: And, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the extremely difficult economic situation today, as well as the social situation in the field of hard coal mining, the proposal for a change is extremely important. To move on to the report, I would like to inform you that two legislative and editorial amendments were adopted as a result of the discussion and vote. First, concerning the article. Point 8 of the project referred to the form of employment of workers in a mining company. The second amendment concerning Article. 2 aimed at clarifying the dates for the entry into force of certain provisions. As a result of the vote, the members of the committee accepted both amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u245	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Michał Wójcik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u246	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! We begin resuscitating the hard coal mining sector. This bill is such a first step on the road to repairing this sector, which is, nothing to hide, in a catastrophic situation. We inherited this from the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. Today, when I attended the first reading meeting, I could not believe that Members of the Civic Platform had been waiting for us for a month to prescribe how to cure the hard coal mining sector, as if forgetting that they were the ones who failed or acted, the wrong policy - it is not only, I very clearly want to stress, the costs of raw materials, including the cost of tons of coal - but also, above all, the terrible management of this sector over the course of eight years, which has led this sector to the brink of bankruptcy. Something that once seemed impossible, namely the possibility of really bankrupting mining companies, including the largest coal company in Europe, the Coal Company, today is a fact. And that is why today the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło saves mining from its collapse, from bankruptcy - individual companies. And I want to make it very clear that it is not true what was said today by the Platform Members at first reading that we want to liquidate the mines. On the contrary, we want to save every job in mining, knowing that it is several hundred thousand jobs not only in mining companies themselves, but also in the mining sector. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that there are four areas covered in this bill. The first area is the extension of the regulation on the possibility to dispose of mines, mining plants or their designated parts by the end of 2018. There's an explanation here. Well, there was a question today, one of the Members asked them, why by 2018 and why this law. We are using the mechanism envisaged by the Council of Europe's decision of 2010 that restructuring can be carried out on these principles by the end of 2018. And if there is no law, if it is not adopted, in a dozen days we will have a huge problem in the hard coal mining sector. We will not normally restructure the sector with budget money in the world, only companies will restructure themselves, really out of their own money resources, and we obviously don't want that. The second point is what Mrs Ewa Malik has already said - the question of extending the time so that some of the shields that have been developed can be used. The third issue is to waive the right to free coal for eligible pensioners and replace it with an equivalent. Well, nothing unusual is happening. In fact, if we look at the way this deputy is being handed over, we have to make a bid, right, the SRK has to make a tender to really pass on this deputy. Well, that doesn't make any sense, so it's better to give you a cash equivalent. In fact, a person doesn't lose anything, and we save money, time and fight bureaucracy. The next issue is the issue of exempting SRK from the fee of 15%. revenue for the budget. This is logical, because if the budget actually adds money and the SRK operates on the basis of budget money, then we see no reason why such a provision would not be found. In turn, we support the provision that if a person is on mining leave, he cannot work, for example, in the administration of a mining company or the administration of a mine, whether in the context of a job relationship or as part of an order. All records are well thought out. These are good records and these are necessary for this restructuring to be carried out. I would like to say that at the same time, efforts are being made to consolidate the hard coal and energy sectors. This is a very important action. After a month, don't expect us to heal this sector immediately. But this bill, this amendment, extremely important to protect mining from bankruptcy, is the first step. That is why we ask you to support this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, we fully support it as Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club to present the position of the club regarding the draft law amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. Ladies and gentlemen! We should be glad that this project appeared in the form that it was presented to us, because it is a continuation of what started the Platform. It is actually a project that requires a few minor amendments, additions, which resulted in the implementation of the recovery programme for hard coal mining, which was adopted by the government Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. In a large part, these records have been preserved. It is extremely glad that it finally reached the opposition, our earlier opposition, and today the government coalition, that the mining environment has changed, that the prices of coal in the world markets have fallen, that there has been overproduction of coal, so that this repair process and this bill, which was previously submitted by the Civic Platform, was and is necessary. These statements are included in the statement of reasons for the bill. I will try to quote them: The necessity of restructuring the Polish hard coal mining sector is largely due to the long-standing difficult situation in the international coal market, mainly oversupplying raw material and falling coal prices, and thus increasing losses in all European Union countries producing this raw material. It was mainly these factors that caused a significant deterioration in the economic and financial condition of Polish mining companies. In particular, this concerns the largest coal producer in Europe, namely the Coal Company, which has been threatened by bankruptcy. That is why it is necessary to develop - I will repeat this once again - a corrective plan which, on the one hand, will ensure the wider energy security of the State by continuing to extract coal economically justified and, on the other hand, to put an end to the activities of the most loss-making entities and their continued functioning is economically and geologically unjustified. Ladies and gentlemen! Applicants in their Act shall extend the operating period, with the extension of the regulation on the possibility of mine disposal, mining plant or its designated parts by the end of 2018. We were a little saddened by this fact, because we thought that this restructuring, the recovery programme would be carried out more efficiently and at least, if not by 2016, this process will be extended by 2017. Of course, the changes made in terms of the payment of these social protections are justified, it can really mobilise workers so that they can decide sooner or later whether to suspend work or check-in or mining leave. And that seems understandable. Of course, the Civic Platform is also in favour of improving the minor changes that result from the correction and the shortcomings that have arisen during the restructuring process. You're probably wondering if we're going to support your project, your bill of correction that you as a government are bringing into this project or not. I will tell you, I will not keep you in doubt: we will support all the changes that lead to the smooth restructuring of coal mining, so that people, employees, do not suffer from it, so that Poland's energy security is built on coal. That's what we've been talking about all along. Tomorrow, during the vote, we will support the bill to amend the law on the operation of hard coal mining. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u250	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Kukiz club15 on amending the law on hard coal mining. The purpose of the draft law is to extend the period of disposal of mining companies' assets to the winding-up undertaking and to extend the period of entitlement of employees of mining companies to benefits. The process of bringing the Polish state's positions closer to the European Commission in the field of aid to mines or parts of mines placed in liquidation should be supported. It is only a concern to secure the financing measures for exceptional costs arising from liquidation, including mining damage costs, decommissioning and decommissioning activities in mining plants and expenditure on environmental tasks, in particular land remediation, as well as costs related to employee benefits - the right to coal equivalent or compensatory pensions. The necessity of restructuring the Polish coal mining sector is without doubt. The only concern is whether this process will also add to the costs of the local regions, among others. local governments. It is good that this law enters into force so quickly. It also welcomes the support and cross-partyism of such an important issue as mining, that at this point the agreement is true, rare at this point, but nevertheless. Mining combined most of the groups, that's really good. It will be possible to further effectively restructure mining. Otherwise, at the end of the year, it would be practically over. The concept of good, the records are fairly clear, precise, also favourable conditions, especially for the Coal Company, where parts of mining plants can be transferred to the Company for Restructuring of Mines. I think here, among other things. about inactive movements, e.g. Anna's mines or where the deposits end. Then the costs of active mines They're gonna fall a lot. Through one-off checks that will be maintained, employment on the ground and in the administration will also be able to be restructured - and there are many willing - without damaging the region and society of collective redundancies. This law opens up many new opportunities. Members, especially from Silesia, should vote in favour. This law generally addresses key issues. You can only direct the aid to the mines being liquidated, not to the loss of active mines. In any event, Kukiz15 will support the changes proposed in the amendment to the Mining Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We invite you underground, we'll give you a pickaxe, you'll dig.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u251	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the justification for the amendment of the law, we read that: it was necessary to develop and implement a recovery plan which, on the one hand, will ensure the State's energy security in a broadly understood manner by continuing to extract coal economically and, on the other hand, to put out the activities of the most loss-making individuals and their continued operation is economically and geologically unjustified. And we totally agree with the idea contained in the bill. We believe that hard coal mining needs investment, needs restructuring. But once again, because of the failure of the previous government, we need to adopt such amendments at a very rapid pace. The idea is correct, but the bill is not ideal, it contains errors. That is why we must once again vote on the laws with which we agree, but not with concrete solutions. The Act still contains very high privileges, which benefit miners, among others. issues of carbon deputy, or actually equivalent for this deputy, issues of barbing, prizes, fairly high clearances that do not exist in other industries and companies. Therefore, we, as Modern, cannot fully support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It seemed that everyone would support these restructuring solutions, with a difficult mining situation. The Polish People's Party will support them, because we are in favour of improving this difficult situation, which has been going on for a long time, it is not from this government that we have problems in mining. Who among us at any point has become involved in politics, remembers that these problems have always occurred somewhere, and practically no one could handle it, but we have to make bold and difficult decisions. It's a good thing the government wants to continue, even though the predecessors called it... Mr Gadowski presented the diagnosis of mine closures, but here we are talking about extinction. It's not easy, it's not easy. I think you have to use all the means to do this as painfully as possible, with the slightest effect mostly for miners, for crews. Restructuring of mining - difficult, energy sector - difficult. Today, practically another debate is devoted to energy problems. The Polish People's Party will support this because we are in favour of finally improving the situation in mining. We wish the new government to succeed in putting out mines, as also described in the justification of the project, to be as painful as possible for the miners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u255	Thank you very much. Two Members have asked questions. I'm closing... Here's another Member, please. So, three Members. I'm closing the list of questions. Please, Mr. Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Platform, asks the question first. Time for the question, sir, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u256	Thank you, Marshal. I probably wouldn't ask that question if there was more time to process this bill. I would like to remind you that we received this bill maybe an hour, the furthest hour before the committee meeting, and then the pace was very fast. Minister, I'd like to ask you about change 12. It is proposed to an employee who does not benefit from the check-in and his plant is wound up, payment of compensation, one-off check-in within 9 months of the sale of the mine to the SRK. In the project that we accepted as a Platform, this payout occurred immediately, and here we have a shifted payout date - 9 months. I'm talking about art. 11e law, that's art. 1 point 12 of the amendment to the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicants, perhaps the government, what were or are the omissions in terms of restructuring mining and how the management costs of mining companies increased. As I recall, it was some huge leap, over PLN 1 billion in the cost of the coal company itself. I have a question: How does such wasteful management, the creation of various advisory positions for tens of thousands of zlotys, reflect that we are in such a difficult situation today? I also have a question: Why have these changes not been introduced so far, despite 8 years of governing the predecessors? And Mr. Gadowski, who is so critical of this government [[♪ The bell ♪]] For adopting the bill so quickly, after a month, he should have hit his chest a little bit, because they could have prepared it in eight years, we wouldn't have to do it fast. And for criticizing the tempo. I would actually like to thank you, because that means that this government quickly solves the problems that have remained in the failed governments of the predecessors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u259	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Posel Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I kind of take advantage of the occasion, because when we talk about mining, we often forget that it's not just pebbles on clay legs, but also pearls of entrepreneurship, and that's what I have a question about. Well, Mr Michał Wójcik said that Law and Justice wants to protect jobs in mining. I would like to ask: Are you sure and do you want to finish? It is also a mining company that was rescued five years ago. This company has undergone painful restructuring thanks to the renunciation and solidarity of employees. And it is thanks to their dedication that the company today does not reach out for state money, which is very important, I think, for the image of the whole industry. This company is almost 2,000. employees, their families and the city of Czechowice-Dziedzice and neighbouring municipalities. Meanwhile, operating on the market, where the playing conditions are not equal for all, and the fact of pumping [[♪ The bell ♪]] public funds to other mining companies give rise to a situation which calls into question the purpose of running this company. I would therefore like to ask: How will the government ensure equal treatment for all mining companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u261	Thank you, sir. Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions. First question. Will the government party try to renegotiate the 2010 Directive package and possibly ask for an extension so that the restructuring process, which requires time, lasts a little longer than planned by 2018? That's one thing. Second thing. Will the Company for the Restructuring of Mines, which will manage already more and more assets, so to speak, in a special way observed, that the assets of the mining plants which are currently in the process of extinction will be managed in a meaningful manner? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u263	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Will the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Energy, Mr Grzegorz Tobiszowski, please take the floor? He'll want to. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for the climate of this discussion, for understanding that we are really urgently debating this law, but we all understand the circumstances in which we are in. For example, on 1 January the Makoszowy mine, which today operates as a mining plant, would be wound up without any shields, with all consequences. So, for example, this element of non-adoption of this law makes it impossible for us to have a situation without precedent. I wanted to, before I could get to the answers to the questions, to refer to... Because there were quotes here from the justification, where we write: "Shut down the activity of the units." I wanted to clarify what we mean. The unit is among others. the movement of the plant - not the whole mine - part of the mine. And what I said on the committee: among others. through this regulation we want to transfer parts of already extinguished mines to the Company. For example, I mean: Rozbark 5, so-called. Ryszard II, which includes the Bytom II-1 deposit; then canceled Anna's movement as a marked part of the KWK Rydultowy-Anna mining plant, which will allow the mine, part of Rydultowy, to have a completely different cost situation after leaving this part of the plant - the Anna movement, which is actually taken care of; then we have the Bojków field as a marked part of the KWK Sośnica mining plant, and this is also the property that charges the operation of the Sośnica mine, and after transferring it to the SRK makes this mine get some breath away from the costs associated with maintaining the Bojków field; then we have the Pawłów Górny district as a marked part of the KWK Bielszowice mining plant, and this is also the part that has long ceased to function as an active plant, and we move it to SRK; then we have from KWK Wieczorek - part of the Poniatowski mine shaft - and here on the same principle we move the Poniatowski shaft, which is no longer a shaft, which we move it is also necessary to the mine, which is also to the operation as Kwekekekzko. And with some parts of the units, where we're actually talking about extinction, because they're de facto no longer functioning as active parts of mines, we're using: "Shut down the activity of the units." I would like to clarify that here, so that you can understand why this wording has been included in our justification. We did not impose this on entire mines, on active, mining movements, which today carry out active production and mining of hard coal. And yes, in reply to Mr Gadowski, I would like to mention that, in this part of us concerning the change in the current rules on the payment of quotas, if the worker moving with his assets to the SRK takes a decision for up to 3 months, he will be paid the highest gratification - 12 months. Then we go down below: if someone makes that decision after 3 months, these sizes will be smaller. Our bill proposes this gradation, so there is this suggestion that as soon as possible, in parts where there are persons assigned to these extinguished parts of mines, the restructuring part could be carried out with regard to the congratulations of persons assigned to establishments transferred to the SRK. I then respond to Mr Sitarski on the question of the Council decision of 2010: yes, the government of Prime Minister Beata Szydło will take action to try to move this decision. We are thinking at that time - and it can be verified - at the European Commission very strongly urged that the then Minister, Rostowski, raise objections to this decision of the Council, because the first predictions have already appeared that there may be a deconuncture on the coal market and this decision of the Council will block us from the restructuring process. We must be aware that these processes, if we already have something approved at the level of certain European bodies, in this case This is the Council's decision... This is difficult to move, but I can say with all responsibility, because we are after government arrangements that such actions will be taken and we will try to show, among others. as part of the follow-up to what has recently happened in Paris, that we have managed to present a slightly different perspective on the issue of CO2 production, showing that the UK, which orders certain products, certain equipment, materials in other countries, and there comes CO2, is also a producer of this CO2 per balance, looking globally. As far as SRK is concerned, we will really be considering the operation of the Company for Restructuring of Mine, because this company is taking a slightly different shape when we carry out such large restructuring operations. Let's see that the Makoshov mine, which is today an active mine in SRK... Well, there is also the issue of management staff, supervision, so surely the SRK will be the subject of our analysis, for example, in the context of the fact that a little extra assets, which so far has not happened in the SRK... We will look at this company carefully and reflect on strengthening it, on its ownership supervision. As for Mrs Rosa's question - in part I also answered - concerning the extinction of the activities of individuals, I just wanted to mention that it is a problem for you that we maintain the so-called restructuring act. privileges, although this is also a contractual issue, what we would call privilege in the hard coal sector, but it's like it's for another time. I would like to say that there are really no privileges in this law, Mrs Bauer. We here introduce the possibility of gentle passage of people who go to... [[That's right. There isn't one in this bill.]] ... Company Restructuring of Mine, and here there is no maintenance of Barborecue withdrawals, no additional gratification. So if this is an obstacle to you, believe me, we don't have it in this bill. On the other hand, the intention is actually to build one of the instruments for relieving the active mines from this property, which is cost-effective and does not affect the efficiency of the individual mine. As regards Mr Suski's question about the decisions that the government or the Ministry of Energy has taken so far, I must say that we have actually faced two serious phenomena. The first phenomenon concerned Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and it must be said with full responsibility, it is a listed company, so many data cannot be said from the stand, but, believe me, we were in a situation of very hot analyses and decisions. Fortunately, today we have the situation that it was built in a relatively urgent and efficient manner a certain investment plan for individual mines, and not only, but also we decided that the capital associated with the coke plant Victoria and the Friendship Cox Room would be the assets that are to be helpful in acquiring investors in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. Because Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa must be supported by entities and at the same time by means, also individual mines, and this plan must anticipate not only the reduction of costs, but also the efficiency of operation of individual mines, because practically today, if certain actions were not taken, we had a company in bankruptcy - i.e. unpredictable effects on the market not only in the hard coal sector, but also in coking coal - but as an important operator of economic life. On the other hand, when it comes to the issue of the Coal Company, it's also what I mentioned on the committee. We had the first such analysis in the Ministry, then we prepared assumptions for this law, and there was a visit to Brussels with representatives of the company, with representatives of the Ministry, in order to preliminate the notification of this law which we are submitting to you today, i.e. to receive a kind of permission in the form of this law, as well as a planned, emerging new company. Here I would like to say that we are actually using certain assumptions of the previous government, but I also want to make it clear that we have preliminary findings made during our first visit to Brussels, which give the green light to the fact that the new company may be created in a new form of shareholdership, but this makes it a definite, different difference in the approach to building a new company, which will consist of 11 mines, and we are currently preparing preliminary talks about the entities that will create this new company. And this is the important difference that the previous government unfortunately, by proposing certain assumptions and not being consistent in building a new company, as we know, has not received this notification and all this reform has de facto collapsed, so it has been lost all this time from January to September. But I don't want to refer to what was, because we have an initial state. I want to say that in this short time, the ministry has really made a very important and big effort so that we can be in another place today, so the new company until the first half of the year is going to come from 11 mines. We are also after a visit to Silesia and after an analysis presented by the board of directors, what each mine looks like, what are the investment assumptions, as well as what is important, after the first meeting with the social side, because the assumptions that we have adopted... On the one hand, we would like the social side to take part in the work on this strategy, and that the various entities representing employees in individual companies also at the stage of building the programme in the new company, in Jastrzębska Węglowa, will already be building with us on our proposed assumptions, and in January we will start talking to the social side. As for the holding company, this is the third entity - Katowice Holding Coal. As you know, there is a flirt of an energy entity there, while we are currently analysing the situation in the energy market in entities, as well as analysing and moving to this third company, because at the beginning we first analyzed Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and made appropriate decisions, then we moved on to active activities concerning the creation of a new company and the implementation of this law, which is to be one of the tools we want to use in restructuring and repairing the coal sector. Let me stress: one of the tools. Then the investment plan. We are also considering other active government activities, but it is first that we would like to negotiate with the social side, then submit to the public and, if possible, submit legislation to the various parliamentary committees. I would like to thank everyone once again for their participation in the discussion in the sense of responsibility for the situation in the hard coal sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u265	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the rapporteur of the committee, Mrs Ewa Malik, like to speak? [[No, that's all.]] No. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. In view of the fact that in time... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Good. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 21 December. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I consider the list of Members of this House to be closed. Mrs Krystyna Wróblewska, Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. I don't see a Member. Mr Simon Giżyński, Club Law and Justice. You're putting me on the record, aren't you? No.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! A brawl sandwich or a petruification sandwich? Richard Petru was so upset about the vote of the Kukiz formation15 for personal changes at the Constitutional Court that he called this party an appetizer of Law and Justice. Instantly rematching, Paweł Kukiz reported that the Modern before she was in the Seym, had already been swallowed and digested by the Civic Platform. Paweł Kukiz used his athletic silhouette and gave a detailed illustration of where in the interiors of the Civic Platform, due to political metabolism of this process of digestion of the Modern in detail. But as the observers of the Polish political scene argue, this is not the only possible picture of the relationship between the Modern and the PO. Some believe that there is already a strong and irreversible process of autopetrification of the Civic Platform. By the way, there's one more thing, and that's basic, the question: What are those surveyed who do the posts to Richard Petru in recent polls? Is it that they're gonna make money in petrudolars? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u267	Thank you very much, sir, for your smooth and brief statement. Mr Rafał Weber, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're on the record? [[Allow me, Marshal, to read it.]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u268	High Izbo! It will also be about Mr Petru, but it will be a little bit more serious, because Mr Petru, the President of this speaker on 17 December, said the truth: he lied, addressing the ministers of the Government of Law and Justice and the Members of Law and Justice, accusing us of not working and not doing our duty because we are unable to prepare laws. I quote exactly Mr Petru's words: Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the tribunal that blocks the laws, it is you who block them because you do not report them. I declare to my constituents, to the voters of Law and Justice and to all Poles that Mr Petru lied in these words. He lied - and he did it on purpose - to discredit the new government and the new Sejm in the eyes of the citizens. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is completely different. It has been exactly 40 days since November 12, 2015, the day of the 8th Sejm's oath. At that time, the Government of Law and Justice sent 7 draft laws to the Marshal's staff, while Parliamentary Club Law and Justice as many as 28 draft laws. The president of our country is also very active on this earth. All these projects are laws on the one hand updated or completely new projects. The Modern Posel Club, on the other hand, is not proud of a single legislative initiative during this period. The modern Richard Petru has so far not submitted a single bill to the Sejm and is the only club with such unfavourable statistics. I repeat: zero sets made by the Modern. I will not question whether it is because of laziness or because of inability, it is none of my business, but I wanted to make this statement to convey to all Poles that the words made by Mr Petru on 17 December 2015 in this Chamber are simply a lie. I calm down and assure Poles that as Law and Justice we work very hard to repair Poland. I assure you, contrary to what our opponents say, we can handle it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u269	Thank you very much. Mr Kurzepa, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will now speak. The Member will also speak before... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Elections! Poles! Today, a few moments ago, we adopted a resolution to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the pledge of the dead. President of the Republic of Poland Prof. Lech Kaczyński. It's a good gesture, a legitimate initiative. Allow me three reflections that I'll share with you. First of all, I happened to be at an international conference in the Presidential Palace this morning. There I experienced a special state, a state of pride, which stems from the fact that five presidents - Estonia, Lithuania, Romania, Georgia and the Czech Republic - reported, talked about their contacts and respect, as well as their friendship with President Lech Kaczyński. Very substantive but also emotional speeches, with great warmth and hope that Poland as a country will return to the role of leader of the group of these countries. I fear that few or none of these speeches will reach our compatriots, as the media will be more eager to focus on minimizing the role of President Lech Kaczyński, bidding on his position among various pseudo-authorities or media icons. So I'm asking you to reach your sources. Why don't you take a look at the President's Office's website, listen to how it really was. Secondly, this reaching of sources became my participation when, after 10 April 2010, I joined them in the social movement. sleep. President Lech Kaczyński. I analyzed, studied the political concept of the fallen president, which was done in the hump of disinformation about himself and his role in national, European and global politics. Together with hundreds of other Poles from the Solidarnia 2010 social movement, the Polish Gazeta clubs and many other environments, we took care to commemorate the President and today's resolution, ladies and gentlemen, it is also your success and your achievements, which I congratulate and thank you for. Thirdly, when I gather earlier arguments when I hear the voice of European presidents, then I think how few of us in this House can boast such advantages of great intellect, knowledge, the qualities of steadfast character, modesty in everyday life. Therefore, when I take this into account, I humble myself towards his personality and the role he played in the latest history of Poland. Finally, I address those who would like to make some jokes and memes about this relationship: first do your homework, search, look, read what he did and who President Lech Kaczyński was, and think about how far away you are from him and whether it would be useful for you to minimize him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u271	Thank you very much. We have one more statement left - Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u272	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased and thank you for adopting the parliamentary draft resolution on the 10th anniversary of taking an oath by the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński. As a Member of the Lublin Voivodeship, as well as as as former Councillor of Lublin City Council in the last 9 years, I would like to remind the High House of the associations of President Lech Kaczyński and Lublin, his merits, his actions for our city. President Lech Kaczyński was a person who was particularly sensitive to Lublin's historic role. He saw the need to support its academic character, as well as its metropolitan functions as an important centre of Eastern Poland. He was in our town, and he wanted his dynamic development. As the President of Warsaw and President of the Council of the Union of Polish Metropolises in 2005, he took steps against attempts to remove Lublin from the list of cities to create Polish metropolitan centres. This was related to the attempt at changing the concept of spatial planning of the country, limiting the number of so-called. Growth centres. Lublin's position then succeeded, also thanks to the determined attitude of Lech Kaczyński, to maintain. It was Lublin who was elected by Lech Kaczyński to replace the last farewell meeting of the Council of the Union of Polish Metropolises after the election of the President of the Republic. At that time a meeting took place at the Lublin Crown Court of the President-elect and five government ministers and local government officials from the eastern regions of Poland, during which discussions were held on the need to prepare a special state programme supporting the development of these areas. This program was created by taking the shape of the Operational Programme of Eastern Poland. President Lech Kaczyński participated in the celebrations of the 25th anniversary of Lublin in July and 80, highlighting the role of those events in the latest history of Poland and Europe. In December 2007, President Lech Kaczyński, meeting the expectations of the Lublin scientific community, sent to the Polish Parliament a draft law establishing the Polish-Ukrainian Academy. His legislative initiative strengthened the position of the Catholic University of Lublin, which gave him his doctorate of honour. In June 2008, Lech Kaczyński took part in an action supporting the Lublin hospice. A little prince. On 19 September 2008 Lech Kaczyński took part in the 90th anniversary of the Catholic University of Lublin. During his visit to Lublin, he paid tribute to the victims of the prison in the Castle and met with the inhabitants of the city. On 1 July 2009, on the 440th anniversary of the Lublin Union, he arrived in Lublin with the presidents of Ukraine and Lithuania, representatives of the presidents of Latvia and Estonia and former President of the Supreme Council of Belarus. He sought good communication from Lublin. It was accompanied by a joint speech by ministers from Eastern European Union countries to include the main transport corridors of Europe key for Lublin in the S19 road. We could continue to talk about the actions of President Lech Kaczyński. I would like to stress that by decision of the Lublin City Council of 31 March 2011, the Lublin City Council gave the name to the square in the centre of Lublin: Lech Kaczyńskiego Square. To conclude, then, after the resolution adopted today: President Lech Kaczyński served Poland well, he served Lublin well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-21-sejm-06-1.u273	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 10 on 22 December this year [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 08]]
