ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print no. 7 and the report is published in print 7 S. Ladies and gentlemen, if no amendments are tabled to the draft voting resolution on this matter, we will proceed immediately after considering this point. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Senators' Group, a draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure and a report on the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, which took place on 13 November this year. The original draft resolution of the Senate provided for changes in the division of competences previously assigned to the Committee on National Economy to this committee, i.e. the Committee on National Economy, and the Committee on Infrastructure. This is linked to the planned increase in government work in the sphere of national economy, energy, infrastructure and development and the related legislative changes. This is followed by the separation of the committees concerned so that, in the light of the planned legislative changes, these committees can carry out the tasks they face in an efficient and appropriate manner. Thus, the first fundamental change proposed in this resolution concerns the separation of competences between the Committee on National Economy and the newly established Committee on Infrastructure. Applicants did not anticipate changes in the competence and subject matter of the committee After summing up, they would be in line with the existing competences or the existing scope of activities and competences of the Committee on National Economy. The second amendment proposed by the applicants concerns the merger of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the European Union Committee on Affairs. In view of globalisation, not only in the economic sphere but also in international relations, and the fact that the European Union's affairs have already been substantially worked over in recent years, the legislative issues have also been refined, and applicants are asking for a combination of the competences of these committees within the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. The name of the newly created committee shows that the issues of both foreign affairs and the European Union remain very important, are an integral part of the name, but also the scope of the committee's activities in a clear way, by adding up its scope of competence, is consistent with this objective. At today's meeting of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, an amendment was tabled, adopted unanimously by the committee, consisting in adding the word "innovative" to the name of the Committee on National Economy. In this way, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation would be established, and the scope of this new committee would be accompanied by elements such as development and promotion of an innovative economy, education in creativity and innovation, the impact of new technologies and technological changes on Poland's development opportunities. Such a change, in the opinion of the committee, would also be in line with the trends of the Parliament's work. There, as separate committees, are the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Innovation. This would clearly show that innovation and new technologies will also take place in the Senate's work. On the action of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. To date, these issues have been discussed in the Committee on National Economy and in the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. Seems like And here the committee shared the view of the applicant that the issues of the innovative economy should also be properly emphasised in the work of the Senate and should find their place in the work of one of the permanent committees. This is also supported by the proposed amendment, which was recognised in the eyes of the members of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. The Commission proposes that the Senate adopt the attached single draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee, who is also an authorised representative of the applicants. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u4	As innovation is linked to funding projects and often because of innovation is awarded Or doesn't admit it. I would like to ask you how you have defined the issues of innovation. [[Like I said... may I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u5	Yes, please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u6	As I said before, we defined this in a very broad way by adding within the remit of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation tasks such as the development and promotion of an innovative economy, education in creativity and innovation, the impact of new technologies and technological changes on Poland's development opportunities. This range corresponds to the scope assigned to the relevant Sejm Committee, and therefore in the case of possible prints and draft laws that will flow to us, to the Senate, there will also be a simple path in discussing and discussing these topics. It seems that the scope of this committee will fully meet the needs that will arise in the course of the government's work and during the debate in the Senate. It is extremely important that innovation issues be so clear in the scope of the Senate committees, for example, because of what the senator mentioned: the nearest EU perspective The emphasis is very clear on innovation and new technologies.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u7	Thank you very much. Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm gonna ask the question... or rather it's gonna be a little bit of an answer for the senator, Senator Grzegorz, my namesake. I would just like to say that this problem, which the senator has just raised, can be resolved freely in the preparation of the work schedule of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. I'm sure it's in the field of the committee's work. 'Cause that's how he's formulated. It would be easy to find those subjects which have just been of interest to the Senator, and they would certainly have exhausted his interest in the matter, I believe. [[I'm sorry, but that wasn't a question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u9	Okay, okay. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the senator of the rapporteur as to whether this name has been well considered, especially the word "innovative." My views may be conservative, but in my opinion the economy is either good or bad, and the technical, scientific or other solutions are innovative, modern. The economy is a repeat of good or bad, and it would be enough to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u11	But the question, Mr. Senator, was... [[Have we thought about the name well?]] Oh, isn't that good? Mr. Senator, have you given a good thought to the name? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u12	Yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The senator has already answered.]] Yes, Mr Senator, it has been well thought out, especially since Senator Napieralski has clearly convinced the committee that it is worth both this section and the scope of competence to be assigned to the newly established committee, and the timetable for the work of the committee, as mentioned by the senator, will be drawn up in the course of the work.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Dobkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u14	Thank you very much. I think that for whether there is a good economy or a bad economy, there will be no money from the Union, but for innovation there will be money. Did you feel the same way about the rapporteur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u15	Thank you. Is that what he thought?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u16	He thought the same thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u17	Thank you very much. No more questions. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome, Senator Kazimierz Wind. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Indeed, innovation in the economy is very important and it is probably good that innovation is added to the name of the committee, although there is always doubt as to how detailed the rules are to be. Because some things are obvious: it's hard to imagine a modern economy without innovation. Unless there are special circumstances, a special situation, then we add something. Detailed records that have been introduced here, however, interfere too deeply with matter, the subject matter of the entire system of competence of the Senate committees. In particular, I have added to the scope of activities of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation: Education in the field of creativity and innovation. There is no doubt that modern education from kindergarten, through the whole educational system to higher education, teaches creativity. It can even be said that there is such an unusual fashion that it is so important that this creativity is so important, and I have spoken many times in this House about an information society in a knowledge-based economy where this creativity is extremely important. Moreover, the very fact that in the Senate since many terms in one committee is science and education, that science is linked to education, shows that scientific results and then their implementation in the economy should be reflected in higher education and education, this fact is the best proof of this. There is, of course, an educational aspect of innovation, one of many, but in that case the area of action of all committees... at least half of them should include education related to the particular competence of the committee. I therefore request that the words "education on creativity and innovation" be deleted and I therefore propose an appropriate amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u19	Thank you very much. Has anyone else signed up for the vote? No. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that a legislative proposal has been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee. There's gonna be a motion, right? Where is Senator Elephant? [[Voice from the room: He's gone, he's gone.]] The motion will be in this session... There's been a conclusion... I also request that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. Roger that. Thank you very much. I declare half an hour off until 10.50 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 17 to 10 minutes 51]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. After the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee and obliged it to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 7 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs at its meeting welcomed the amendment tabled by Senator Kazimierz Wiatr and agrees that the Committee on National Economy and Innovation should be able to delete the words 'education on creativity and innovation' from the remit of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator applicant, Senator Kazimierz Wind, want to speak? [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report to be submitted. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. The first vote on the amendment to the proposal will be held. "Print No 7 X " followed by the adoption of the draft from print No 7 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm asking for a vote. Please report the results. 78 senators voted, 77 were in favour, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure, i.e. the adoption of the draft together with the amendments resulting from the adopted amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. The 82 current senators have all voted in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that there will be an adjournment in a moment during which the senators will be able to join the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure, each senator is required to submit his candidacy to one permanent committee and may be a member of no more than two permanent committees. The model of the application to the committee is being delivered to the senator's benches. I ask the senators who have not yet applied to the committee to submit completed forms to the staff of the Senate Chancellery who are on duty in front of the sitting room within 30 minutes of the adjournment notice, i.e. until 11.25 p.m., let's say until 11.30 p.m. We're adjourned until 3:00. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 54 to 15 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the establishment of permanent Senate committees. The proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is contained in print No 10. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, and present the committee's proposal. He's not here? We're waiting. Please contact me. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present to the House a draft resolution on the establishment of Senate committees. At its meeting today, the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs examined senators' applications to the Permanent Committees of the Senate of the Republic of Poland and on the basis of an article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Rules of Procedure of the Senate shall present a draft resolution contained in the relevant printing. You have received the printing by electronic means, I believe, but it is probably already available in printed form as well. Since all the proposals for participation in the relevant committees are presented in the paper, I will not read them. The Commission shall recommend the compositions of the committees according to the attached list. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u23	Thank you very much. We'll proceed to the... [[Where's the print? Mr. Marshal...]] Excuse me? [[Can I get a print?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: It is published on the Internet.]] It's published online. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And yesterday, the senator got a tablet. New. [[It's true.]] [[Voice from the hall: Let's vote.]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution presented by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 73 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appointment of Senate committees. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be an adjournment in a moment. The first meetings of the newly formed Senate committees will be convened during the break. At these first meetings, the committees shall elect candidates for committee chair. The agenda for the first meetings of the Senate committees, including organisational information, was laid down on senators' benches. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to give an opinion on the candidates for presidents who will be notified by the committees, I am calling a meeting of the Senior Convention. It will take place two hours after the adjournment is ordered. I would also like to inform you that immediately after the meeting of the Seniors Convention will be concluded in room 179, there will be a meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, which will prepare a draft resolution on the election of the Senate committees. And I'm managing a break for an hour... [[Voice from the room: Two and a half hours...]] Two and a half hours, which is until 4:00... [[Voice from the room: 5:30 p.m.]] Two and a half hours, which is until 5:30. By 5:30. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 04 to 17 minutes 30]] I'm reopening the session. High Izbo, I would like to inform you that with the end of the 8th term of the Senate, it is necessary for the Senate to elect new members of the National Judicial Council and the National Public Prosecutor's Council. Applications for the selection of senators for the composition of the two councils may be submitted to the Speaker of the Senate from 13 November to 30 November 2015 until 4 p.m. The information in this case was sent to the senators electronically and delivered to the senator's mailboxes, and the models of applications were forwarded to the senate clubs. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the election of the Chairs of the Permanent Senate Committees. At the end of the session, the Senate committees held meetings, which elected candidates as committee chairmen. The proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators on this matter is contained in print No 11. I would like to inform you that he took note of the Senior Convention's applications and gave a positive opinion on them. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to speak and to present the committee's proposal to elect the presidents of the Senate Committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting today, the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs examined the committee's conclusions on the selection of candidates for the chair of the Senate committees and on the basis of the Rule. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate presented a draft resolution on this matter, contained in print No 11. Prints were put out in foyer, as well as provided to you on the Internet. The Commission proposes that this draft resolution be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u25	Thank you very much. I am now asking the representatives of the various committees to present the candidates for committee chair. I ask Senator Krzysztof Mroz to speak and present Senator Grzegorz Bierecki's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Come to the platform, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It has been my honor to present the figure, the candidacy of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki as chairman of the finance and budget committee. He's a famous businessman from... He has been doing business for more than twenty years in financial markets, has experience both domestic and foreign. From... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Why don't you senators listen a little bit? [[We ask you to listen and not disturb us. Proceed.]] In 2013 and 2015, Mr Grzegorz Bierecki was the chairman of a global credit unions association in the United States, which brings together credit unions from one hundred and four countries around the world, based, of course, in the United States. He is the creator and founder of cooperative savings and credit banks in Poland, in which the savings have more than two and a half million Poles, whose turnover amounts to more than 16 billion PLN. Mr Grzegorz Bierecki in 2005, if I'm not mistaken... sorry, in 2006 he was appointed by the then Minister of Finance as a member of the Financial Market Development Council and in 2010 by the President of the Republic of Poland to the National Development Council. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, born 28 September 1963 in Gdansk, from the earliest years founder and activist in democratic structures, associated with Solidarity, with NZS, in 1988 co-organizer of strikes in Gdansk, graduate of the University of Gdansk, participant of the Round Table in the field of science and higher education, as well as philanthropist, appreciated by the Minister of Culture with a badge of Ladies and gentlemen, privately Mr. Grzegorz is the husband and father of two children. In 2011 he won the seat of the Senator of the Republic of Poland in the district No 17, and now, in 2015, this mandate has been renewed. I therefore highly recommend the appointment of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki as Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask Senator Marek Martynowski to speak and present Senator Andrzej Stanisławek's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Professor Andrzej Stanisławek, sixty-one, is the head of the Oncological Surgery Department of the Lublin Land Oncology Centre. At the Medical University of Lublin, she is the pro-dean of the Faculty of Health and Nursing and Science and she directs the Department of Oncology and Environmental Health Care. Belongs to the party.English Total. President of the Early Cancer Detection Foundation in Lublin in 1991. He has been conducting an oncology specialist surgery since 1990. He has been doing business for twenty-five years, so that he can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u29	Thank you very much. Now I ask Senator Jan Hamerski to speak and present Senator Stanisław Kogut's candidacy as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to recommend the chair of Senator Stanisław Rogut's Infrastructure Committee. Senator Rooster has started his fourth term of office in this House. And I think that his experience here, as well as the experience of a long-term self-government officer, went from the councilman to the councilman of the voivodship sejm, will certainly be useful in the work of the Infrastructure Commission. I would also like to say that Senator Rogut has been a long-time employee associated with our national railways and, at the same time, since 1980, a long-term member of the NSZZ Senator Rooster, Ladies and Gentlemen, works at the same time in the community. He was the founder of the Disabled Persons Assistance Foundation. And when it comes to family life, what I'm trying to say is that he's an exemplary... That's what they say because he's got a good father's reputation as well as a good grandfather's. He has six grandchildren, including three Roosters... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...so he has successors to the throne. Thank you very much and I recommend Stanisław Rogut as Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask Senator Barbara Zdrojewska to speak and present the candidacy of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz as chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u32	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Mr. Marshal! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Culture, the candidacy of Jerzy Fedorowicz as chairman of this committee. We know that Jerzy Fedorowicz, here I could tell you a long story about him and present his figure to you, he is an actor, director of the People's Theatre, he was a longtime director of the Faculty of Culture at the City Hall of Krakow, but also a councillor by three terms, including one seymime, where he worked all the time in cultural committees. Later he moved to the Sejm, where he started his parliamentary work, worked for three terms, working in a cultural committee, including two terms in the bureau of that committee. I would also like to say that he is an academic teacher, works at the Academy of Music in Krakow, and is also a winner of many awards for his social and cultural activities. I think I could say that for a long time... These distinctions are the Golden Cross of Merit from the President, the award for the activities of children awarded by the President of the Republic of Poland, as well as the Honorary Cross of the Republic of Austria. The outstanding award that Mr. Jerzy Fedorowicz received. But all this data doesn't say everything... All of this doesn't give a full picture of this man. A prominent cultural activist, a wonderful person who unites rather than divides. And that is why I would like to recommend to you his candidacy, believing that he will be the connecting president and, at the same time, possessing a great deal of knowledge about the culture and means of communication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask Senator Michał Sewerynski to speak and present the candidacy of Senator Kazimierz Wind as chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I propose the appointment of Senator Kazimierz Wind as Chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. He is a long-standing parliamentarians, a senator of several successive terms, experienced in parliamentary activities, an expert in particular on the problems of higher education and teaching. And what there is much to say, he is also known as a speaker We had the opportunity to listen to his significant speeches here in the Senate. I would like your support for this recommended candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask Senator Waldemar Kraska to speak and present Senator Jarosław Rusiecki's candidacy as chairman of the National Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u36	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Senate! I have the honour to recommend that you be the chairman of the National Defence Committee of Senator Jarosław Rusiecki. He is 54 years old, married, resident of Ostrowiec Świętokrzyskiego, and has been in parliament since 2005. Until 2014 he was a Member of the Sejm, in 2014 he won the Senator's mandate in supplementary elections and worked in the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Culture and Media. I recommend this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask Senator Robert Mamytkow to speak and present the candidacy of Senator Michał Sewerynski as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to submit, on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the candidacy of Professor Michał Sewerynski as Chair of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. I would like to point out that the senator has already served as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions of the 8th term, he has conducted it in substance, the whole committee has always been pleased with his work. I ask you to support his candidacy as chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask Senator Mieczysław Augustyn to speak and present Senator Jarosław Duda's candidacy as chairman of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u40	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is with great pleasure that I recommend the role of my successor in the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to the person here, in the Senate, known for his commitment to those in need. He worked in NGOs, local government, and then, since 2004, in parliament. ♪ And always ♪ First in the Seym for two terms, and then in the Senate he was in the committees of family and social policy. At the same time, since 2007, he has been in the Ministry as Deputy Minister and Representative of the Government for Persons with Disabilities, co-chair of the Council of Public Benefits, National Coordinator of the Anti-violence Programme. I think it's just a small piece of the senator's great accomplishments showing his competence to perfectly direct the work of our committee. I recommend this candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u41	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask Senator Zdzisław Pupa to speak and present Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored to present on behalf of the committee the candidacy of Jerzy Chróścikowski as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Senator Chróścikowski started his activity with hard work in the mine, downstairs, that was his activity in his life. Later he worked another hard job, on the ground. He's connected to Zamość. In his professional, economic and social activities he performed various types of self-government, social and political functions. The fifth term of office is the senator, he was the councilman of the Lublin Sejm, the district councilman, he is active in agricultural Solidarity, and since 2007 he has been its chairman. Senator Chróścikowski also has extensive knowledge of European law as he was vice president of the Committee of Agricultural Trade Organisations in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the man who has served as chairman of the committee during the last three term of the Senate. It is connected with agriculture, is a very competent, experienced person, and, recommending this candidacy, I am convinced that, as chairman of the committee, it will do a good job for rural and agricultural affairs and will properly lead the way towards solving their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka to speak and present the candidacy of Senator Piotr Ziientarski as chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I recommend Senator Piotr Ziientarski to chair this committee. Senator Zientarski is a graduate of Adam Mickiewicz University and at the same time a doctor of the University. In addition, he is a lawyer, judge and lawyer after his examination, and he is a longtime lawyer in his law firm. For ten years he has been senator of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, worked in the Legislative Commission, led it for the last term of office. He originally worked in the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad and cooperated with the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. He is also the founder of the Baltic Jazz Club, and I am not sure that he plays saxophone in connection with this... But I dare recommend him for this function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask Senator Stanisław Gogach to take the floor and present Senator Janina Sagatowska's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It has been my honor to recommend the appointment of Senator Janina Sagatowska as Chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. I have a position to put forward, an opinion of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, which has recently been discussed. The Commission unanimously supported this candidacy. I would like to add, on the grounds of this candidacy, that the senator has experience in public activity, was a voivode, is a legal adviser, is a senator of many terms. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that she was a senator of the fourth term during which she was already president, it was the years 1997 to 2001, years when the committee and Senate did a lot for Poland. That's when we first passed the repatriation bill. She, as it turns out now, is not perfect, but was the first after the war and gave much hope to our fellow countrymen living abroad. I am convinced that when Senator Janina Sagatowska supports the High House, we will improve what has already been started, and in some sense many of these tasks were continued at all times. So that I ask you very much to support this candidacy as chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I would very much like to ask Senator Piotr Wach to speak and present Senator Mark Rocki's candidacy as President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, I strongly recommend that Senator Mark Rocky act as chairman of this committee. Senator Marek Rocki was born in 1953 in Warsaw. His years as a student and a significant part of his career were connected to the School of Economics, where he graduated, gained two degrees in science, and then by two terms he was the rector. He is a specialist in econometrics as well as macroeconomics and unemployment issues. He held important roles in higher education, such as the President of the Polish Higher Education Accreditation Agency and the President of the Conference of Rectors of Economic Schools. As a curiosity, he was also president of the AZS headquarters for many years. As far as the Senate is concerned, he is the senator of the fourth term, so he started in the sixth term. In the last two terms, he was a member and vice-president of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, i.e. a committee which was part of this large, aggregated committee to be chaired by him. On behalf of this committee, I would very much like to express my support. The Commission voted unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u49	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask Senator Alicia to speak and present Senator Zdzisław Pupa's candidacy as chairman of the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u50	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, I have the honour to recommend the appointment of Senator Zdzisław Pupa as chairman of this committee. Mr Zdzisław Pupa was a Member of the Sejm of the 3rd term of office and was vice-chairman of the agricultural committee at the time. In Senate VII and VIII, he worked as Deputy Chairman of the European Union Committee and Chairman of the Environment Committee. In the Seym of Podkarpackie Voivodeship, he worked as a councilman for two terms. He's married, he's got three kids. The Commission unanimously supported Senator Zdzisław Pupa's candidacy as chairman of the committee. I ask the High House to support this candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I ask Senator Zbigniew Cichoń to speak and present Senator Bohdan Paszkowski's candidacy as chairman of the Legislative Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present Senator Bohdan Paszkowski's candidacy as Chairman of the Legislative Commission. Senator Paszkowski is a highly qualified lawyer by profession, because he has been a legal adviser for many years. He was also a voivode. He has also been a senator for many years and has served as Chairman of the Legislative Commission. He was known not only from the point of view, as an excellent lawyer, but also as a wonderful personality, a modest man, with a huge culture of being and elegance, respecting the opinions of others and able to conduct discussions in a very elegant manner. Napoleon said the state at war is based on soldiers and in a state of peace. On lawyers. Since the Human Rights Committee is a sort of military regiment, I think we can make Senator Bohdan Paszkowski a general and this regiment, and that is my conclusion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u53	Thank you very much... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Thank you, Senator. Now I ask Senator Dorota Czudowska to speak and present Senator Waldemar Kraska's candidacy as chairman of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u54	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health the candidacy of Senator Waldemar Kraska as chairman of this committee. The Commission unanimously supported this candidacy by secret ballot. Senator Kraska is a doctor, a politician. He was born on 4 September 1963. He works every day in Sokołów Podlaski. His professional interests are particularly medical rescue. In the Senate of the Republic of Poland it has been since 2005, from the sixth term of office to the present one. He worked and still wants to work on the Health Committee. His professional experience, his ten-year parliamentary experience, his knowledge and competences are the best recommendation for his candidacy as President. And everyone who knows Senator Kraska also knows his kindness, the serenity of the spirit, which also, I think, are useful, and not only in running the Health Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. We proceed with the vote on the election of the chairmen of the Senate committees. I would remind you that voting on personal matters is secret and is done using sealed ballots. I propose that all votes be held separately, on each candidate, but on one common ballot. If I do not hear the opposition, then the vote will be held in my own way. I don't hear any objections. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. In a moment, the senators of the first sitting will hand out sealed ballots to the senators. The Charter shall contain the names of all candidates submitted to the committee chair. On... You may, gentlemen, give them away now. Only one sign should be placed on the secret ballot with each name. Putting more than one mark or not making any mark with the name of the candidate in question will make the vote for the candidate void. Once you have completed your cards, the senators, read in alphabetical order, will be throwing these cards into the urn. An hour's adjournment will then be ordered, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators to fill them out. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Have all the senators received secret ballots? Everyone, right? I'm so happy for you. I ask Senator Rafał Michał Ambrozik to read the names of the senators in order, and I ask the senators to put their names in the urn filled with secret ballots after reading them.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u56	− Jan Filip Libicki, − Mieczysław Augustyn, − Adam Jerzy Bielan, − Grzegorz Michał Bierecki, − Przemysław Jacek Błaszczyk, − Alexander Tomasz Bobko, − Ryszard Wiesław Bonisławski, − Waldemar Bonkowski, − Marek Stefan Borowski, − Bogdan Michał Borusewicz, − Margareta Budner, − Jerzy Mieczysław Chróścikowski, − Zbigniew Jan Cichoń, − Leszek Czarnobaj, − Grzegorz Czelej, − Jerzy Czerwiński, − Dorota Czudowska, − Wiesław Józef Dobkowski, − Jan Dobrzyński, − Robert Dowhan, − Jarosław Duda, − Jerzy Felix Fedorowicz, − Peter Florek, − Robert Kazimierz Gawel, − Adam Gawada, − Stanisław Gogacz, − Arkadiusz Jakub Grabowski, − Thomas Paul Grodzki, − Maciej Tomasz Grubski, − Jan Vincenty Hamerski, − Jan Maria Jackowski, − Andrzej Kaminski, − Stanisław Karczewski, − Wiesław Kilian, − Kazimierz Mariusz Klein, − Bogdan Adam Klich, − Andrzej Kobiak, − Maria Sophia Blanket, − Stanisław Rogut, − Władysław Komarnicki, − Tadeusz Viktor Kopeć, − Margaret Kopiczko, − Waldemar Jerzy Kraska, − Maciej Adam Łuczak, − Józef Mikołaj Łyczak, − Richard Bogdan Majer, − Robert Adam Mamątow, − Marek Eryk Martynowski, − Łukasz Mikołajczyk, − Andrzej Tadeusz Mioduszewski, − Andrzej Kazimierz Biesiołek, − Krzysztof Stanisław Mroz, − Grzegorz Bernard Napieralski, − Jarosław Wojciech Oremski, − Bogusława Orzechowska, − Andrzej Michał Spider, − Maria Paniczyk-Podziej, − Bohdan Józef Paszkowski, − Grzegorz Pekkis, − Marek Pęk, − Wojciech Piotr Piecha, − Leszek Marian Piechota, − Aleksander August Pociej, − Marian the Messenger, − Michał Franciszek Potrowicz, − Krystian Karol Probier, − Zdzisław Stanisław Pupa, − Constantine Radziwiłł, − Marek Dariusz Rocki, − Tadeusz Romanczuk, − Jadwiga Kazimier Rotnicka, − Jan Rulewski, − Jarosław Rusiecki, − Sławomir Piotr Rybicki, − Czesław Wincenty Ryszka, − Janina Zofia Sagatowska, − Michał Sewerynski, − Krzysztof Marek Elephant, − Waldemar Jan Sługocki, − Andrzej Józef Stanisławek, − Lidia Eve Staron, − Grażyna Anna Štark, − Aleksander Jakub Szwed, − Antoni Szymanski, − Raphael Joseph the locksmith, − Przemysław Kazimierz Terminski, − Peter Wach, − Arthur Richard Warzocha, − Jerzy Wczyła, − Kazimierz Adam Wind, − Jacek Władysław Włosowicz, − Andrzej Franciszek Wojtyła, − Alicia Maria Zając, − Joseph the Hare, − Barbara Grażyna Zdrojewska, − Piotr Benedict Zientarski, − Jan Krzysztof Żaryn, − Rafał Michał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-13-senat-01-2.u57	Have all the senators voted? I take it you do. Thank you very much. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a recess until 6:50 p.m. And now there's going to be a convention... [[Voice from the room:...Seniors.]] Senior Convention or Senate Bureau? [[Voice from the room: Senior Convention.]] Senior Convention. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 04 to 18 minutes 50]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I'm extending the recess by ten minutes until 7:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 50 to 19 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. We would like to return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the election of the Chairs of the Permanent Senate Committees. Let me remind you that the senators of the secretaries have finished calculating the votes and drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I now pronounce the results of the vote. Minutes of the secret ballot of 13 November 2015 on the election of the chairmen of the Senate committees. Senator Rafał Michał Ambrozik, Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Alexander Sweed They state that in a secret vote on the election of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki as chairman of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, 92 votes were cast; no valid votes were cast; 70 senators voted against 22 senators; no abstentions. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Andrzej Stanisławek as chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, 92 votes were cast, including null and void votes 0; 92 senators voted in favour. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Stanisław Kogut as Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure, the votes were cast on 92 votes, including invalid votes. 0; 84 Senators voted on the election against 4; 4 Senators abstained. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz as chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media... [[Voice from the hall: Felix.]] George. [[Yeah, I'm George, Felix can't read.]] It doesn't even say "Felix," it says "Jerzy Fedorowicz." Thus, the secret vote for the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Media casts the votes - 92, including invalid votes - 1; 80 Senators voted against - 5; 6 Senators abstained. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Kazimierz Wiatr as chairman of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, the votes were cast - 92, including invalid votes - 0; 90 Senators voted against - 1; 1 Senator abstained. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Jarosław Rusiecki as chairman of the Committee on National Defence, 92 votes were cast, including null and void votes 1; 90 votes against 0 were voted in favour; 1 abstention. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Michał Sewerynski as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, 92 votes were cast, including null and void votes 0; 92 senators voted in favour. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Jarosław Duda as chairman of the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee, two senators abstained. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, 92 votes were cast, including invalid votes. 1; 88 senators voted in favour, no one was against and 3 senators abstained. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Piotr Ziientarski as chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, five senators abstained. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Janina Sagatowska as chairman of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, the votes were cast: 92 votes were cast, including invalid votes; 1 votes were voted by 91 senators; no one was elected. against and no one held back. The secret vote on the election of Senator Marek Rocki as Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union cast the votes - 92, including one vote not valid; 79 votes against - 6 abstentions. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Zdzisław Pupa as chairman of the Environment Committee, the votes cast were all valid, the election was voted by 89 senators, no one voted against, and three senators abstained. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Bohdan Paszkowski as Chairman of the Legislative Commission, 92 votes were cast, all valid; 92 senators voted in favour. In a secret vote on the election of Senator Waldemar Kraski as chairman of the Health Committee, the votes were cast on 92, including one vote not valid; 89 senators voted on the election; no one voted against; two senators abstained. And at the end of the protocol are the signatures of the three senators of the secretaries. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairmen of the Senate committees. I now ask you to approach the Presidency table chosen today by the presidents of the Senate committees. I'd like to give you a resolution. [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's take some souvenir pictures. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the agenda for the first Senate meeting has been exhausted. I inform the senators that the next Senate meeting was convened on 18 and 19 November. The agenda will be delivered to you by e-mail. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. A declaration may not be made for more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's delivery would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within five minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to take the floor and make a statement? There are no volunteers. Are there any messages? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within thirty days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The first Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[Applause]] [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 19 minutes 10]]
