ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u1	I open the fourth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I'm ordering the secretaries of the meeting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I've already started, ladies and gentlemen... Quiet, please. I appoint Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Alexander Swed. I inform you that Senator Bohdan Paszkowski was appointed to the Podlaskie Voivode on 9 December this year. His Senator's mandate expired on that date. I would like to remind you that Senator Bohdan Paszkowski was one of the two candidates submitted to the National Judicial Council. In view of the need to apply for new applications, I have re-established the deadline for submitting applications for the selection of senators to the National Judicial Council. These applications may be submitted to the Senate Marshal's office by 8 p.m. on 11 December. Dear Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senator benches. I would like to remind you that a point was placed on the draft agenda delivered to you earlier: the selection of senators for the National Judicial Council. Following the expiry of the mandate of Senator Bohdan Paszkowski and the need to submit new applications, this point has been removed from the agenda of the current sitting and will be discussed at the next Senate meeting. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as point one. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't hear any objections. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Klich, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! There have been two meetings of the Senior Convention on today's agenda. At the previous sitting, if I recall correctly, we also adopted the Senate's work plan for the coming months, and certainly for the coming weeks. The order of today's proceedings is poor, and even, I would say, very stingy. We do not really understand in our club why today's order has not been linked to the order of this forthcoming meeting, which was not anticipated earlier, that is to say, with the deliberations next week. The Senate should not be a shadow of the Seym. The Senate has its autonomy. We senators were chosen not to come here and vote in favour of changes in the membership of Senate committees or to make the obvious choice of representatives for the National Public Prosecutor's Council as far as the outcome is concerned, only to deal with matters that are really important for Poles. And right now the most important thing for Poles is the rule of law in our country and the stability of the rule of law... [[It's always been like this.]] [[Voices from the room: It's true.]] ...and a dispute around the Constitutional Court. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't interrupt me because I'm not done yet. So I would like to ask your marshal on behalf of our club to complete today's agenda for the government's information on the current dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal. I call it very euphemistic. A dispute around the Constitutional Court, although I, and my club, have an opinion on this subject. The title, the reason, Mr Marshal, the High Senate, is yesterday's ruling of the Constitutional Court, which disqualifies our House, and more specifically the majority in this House, of the law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. I will remind you that yesterday, the Constitutional Tribunal raised as valid all those reservations which the Civic Platform Club submitted during the discussion, the night discussion when the law was being amended. That is enough reason in our view, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, to have a discussion on this subject and to be a discussion on the basis of government information on this matter. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] [[In June you had to discuss it, in June!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u3	Thank you very much. Is there an objection? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I object. I am surprised that Senator Klich, on behalf of the Civic Platform, did not submit such requests for democracy in June when the Pandora box concerning the Constitutional Tribunal was introduced and opened by the back door. I make such an application... I object. [[Who opened Pandora's can?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u5	Thank you very much. Then we shall proceed to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of Senator Klich's request to extend the agenda to information from a government representative... And what minister? [[Government information on...]] But what minister? The whole government isn't coming. [[Prime Minister's information.]] Prime Minister. Good. You didn't specify that, so I'm asking you to clarify your application... [[What does the government have to do with this?]] ...that it's about informing the Prime Minister about the situation related to... what exactly, Mr. Senator? The Prime Minister doesn't do anything about it, you should know very well, Mr... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Information concerning the Court.]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]] Yes, please be more specific. [[If I may, I will repeat my motion.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u6	It is about informing the Prime Minister on behalf of the Government about the dispute around the Constitutional Tribunal. That's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u7	Good. Thank you very much. Who's in favour of Senator Klich's motion? Please press the "Za" button. Who's against it? The anti button. Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: Was he in favor of...]] [[It's not working.]] Please report the results. [[Voice in the O.R.: It's not working...]] [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[It's working, up.]] 84 senators voted, 29 were in favour, 55 against. [[Voting No 1]] The motion was rejected. Do any of you senators, ladies and gentlemen of the senators want to speak on the agenda? Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u8	Mr. Marshal, I'm more of a formal motion, because then there may not be such an opportunity on account of the specific agenda. [[No, Mr. Senator, a formal motion can be made at any time...]] Thank you. Then I'm taking advantage of this... [[...except when we start voting.]] Will the marshal allow it? [[I'll allow it, yes...]] Thank you very much. [[...but you doubted it, so I wanted to explain it right away.]] Thank you. [[You're welcome.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the great work of the Senate of the previous term of office was to consider whether the enforcement of the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal was carried out. We've introduced a special department, Section IXa, into our regulations. Indeed, as the Senate, we have great achievements, but unfortunately we also have our problems with this, because both the contested Constitutional Court laws have passed through our House... [[Formal conclusion!]] ...and the rules that we voted on in June and later were challenged by the Court. I would like to appeal to the marshal to exercise his powers under section IXa of the Art. Article 85a (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) 1, you asked the Marshal to refer the latter two decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal This would allow us, as a House particularly sensitive to the implementation of the Court's rulings, to address these issues and perhaps to decide on legislative work. Thank you very much. [[That's not a conclusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u9	This is an appeal. To me, Mr. Senator, not to you. Thank you very much. [[It's not a formal conclusion.]] This is not a formal conclusion, yes, it is not a formal conclusion, it is a statement, but I will refer to it, Senator. [[It was, Mr. Marshal...]] 48 decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal were not taken by your senator, by your club, by your party. It wasn't. [[Applause]] [[And that's the work.]] And there was time for that. There was enough time to include all those judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal in the law. Exactly 48 judgments are found... unattended. All decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, Senator, I am addressing the Legislative Commission. That's what I've been doing, and that's what I'm doing. And those judgments and those judgments haven't arrived yet. Thank you very much. You're welcome, are any of you ladies and gentlemen... [[I'm in the middle of a corrigendum.]] Correcting what? [[Formal conclusion.]] But what's the corrigendum? [[Formal conclusion on the correction.]] Your name hasn't been mentioned, but here you go. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u10	Mr Marshal, my name was not formally mentioned, but I was chair of the Legislative Commission, which was responsible for implementing the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. I'd like to remind you that the Senate was just boasting... [[The voice from the hall: He boasted...]] Yes. During the two term of office, we carried out about 200 judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] And I would stress, Mr. Marshal, that... it has to be said that this has been happening to the high activity of the PiS Senators... [[Of course I do.]] ...my vice-president, Senator Matusiewicz, and others who participated very actively in the execution of these judgments. I stress, Mr Marshal, that we have carried out these judgments on an ongoing basis, of course after having received written justification. Here we could really talk about the prematureness of this proposal. [[There's no justification for... prematureity of the motion.]] I'll say yes here. Finally, I would like to add that another point, Mr Marshal, is the statistics on non-execution, and what else is the question of consideration. In many cases, we considered this on an ongoing basis and felt that the decision was not suitable for execution. It was an opinion... That's the way to look at it. It was pointless, it was realized, and so on... Many initiatives have been unenforced and this has been the case in the previous term, and it is now the case for discounting. [[Okay, but now we're at a point...]] That's why I think that... our committee has been on-going, without undue delay, handling all the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u11	Mr. Senator, thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now at a point which is to establish the agenda. I now expect only proposals related to this issue. Let me repeat the question: does one of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators wish to speak on the agenda? You're welcome, Senator Rulewski, and then you're the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u12	Mr. Marshal, you've even responded to the question that it seems quite right. Senator Augustin's appeal for a proposal on the agenda, but I did not understand your answer and therefore cannot vote. Unless you explain your position... And that position sounded like... [[There's nothing to explain.]] You're not responding to requests or appeals, you're just censoring the activities of clubs and senators right now. I don't get it. Are you in session, or are you censoring your activities? [[Applause]] [[Where's the conclusion?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u13	Mr. Senator, I understand that you don't understand, because Senator Augustine has not made a request to extend the agenda. [[But you're the one who later said that the Platform didn't do something, that...]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[That is not the answer to Senator Augustine's appeal.]] But now it's... [[Who's in charge? Who's holding the Senate meeting?]] Mr. Senator, you have absolutely the right to assess whether I have made the answer or not. This is your senator's personal assessment; you can express that assessment. But we are, ladies and gentlemen, on the agenda. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to speak on this matter? Senator, you're welcome, and then you're the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I feel like we're working in terrible chaos. [[It's already been...]] We are being called to this Senate meeting today, and there is one item on the agenda, and we are forcefully extending order by another point, which we could really consider at the next Senate meeting... Today we learned that it was called, although it was not planned. We are also working in the field, we are meeting with voters, we are also currently, in a difficult situation in the country, connected with the Constitutional Tribunal... [[What are you saying?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...we have our... Well, maybe it's funny to you, but it's not funny to everyone. I'll wait, have a laugh. [[Okay, but are you... what are you talking about, Senator?]] I'd like your marshal... to see that what's planned, what was discussed at the Seniors Convention, is implemented, according to the information we're getting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u15	Thank you very much, Senator. I assure you, Mr. Senator and all the other senators that all the activities I do are in accordance with the rules of procedure. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u16	I would just like to point out that all the comments made here due to some frustration are inadequate to what we should be doing today. And if we could just get to the point... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u17	Thank you very much. We've already established that. I state that... because I no longer hear any conclusions about enlargement or other issues relating to the agenda. I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that the vote on item one will be held immediately after its consideration. I'll inform you that a recess will be ordered at 12 o'clock. During the break there will be an opening of the exhibition "The Cut-Off" in Polish tradition. I remind the senators that those of you who intend to take part in the discussion on a specific item on the agenda are voting for the Senator of the secretary holding the list of speakers. The senator's speech in the discussion must not last more than ten minutes. In addition, I would like to remind you that voting takes place using electronic apparatus and consists in pressing the apparatus button and raising your hand. We proceed with the first item on the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee in this case is included in print No 24. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present a proposal from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of Senate committees. On the basis of Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees. Art. 1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, revokes: 1) Senator Grzegorz Bierecki of the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, 2) Senator Stanisław Gogach of the Health Committee, 3) Senator Marek Martynowski from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, 4) Senator Mark Kroka from the Committee on Infrastructure. Art. 2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, chooses: 1) Senator Stanisław Gogach to the Legislative Commission, 2) Senator Marek Martynowski to the Legislative Commission, 3) Senator Mark Kroka to the Legislative Commission. Art. 3 The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt a draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 86 senators voted, 83 were in favour, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We proceed with the second agenda: the selection of senators for the National Public Prosecutor's Council. According to Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Act of 20 June 1985 on the Prosecutor's Office, the Senate elects two members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council from among the senators for the duration of its term of office. I would like to inform you that the following candidates have been submitted to the National Public Prosecutor's Council: Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Aleksander Szwed. The CVs of the candidates are included in print No 23. He addressed proposals concerning the applications submitted by the Senate Marshals to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The committee's report is contained in print No 23 O. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to speak and to present the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the proposed candidates for the National Public Prosecutor's Council: Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Mark Pęk. Senator Aleksander Szwed is a graduate of history at the Faculty of Historical Sciences and Pedagogical Sciences of the University of Wrocław. He also completed postgraduate studies in the field of public administration in Poland and in the European Union, as well as project management and evaluation at the Lower Silesian Higher School of Public Services in Wrocław, he also received a number of specialist training courses in law and administration. He served as a councillor of the Kłodzki County, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance in the Council, member of the Audit Committee, Security and Public Order Committee, statutory committee and many others. In the 2015 elections, he was elected Senator of the 9th term of office in the district, which includes the districts of Kłodzki, Ząbkowicki and the tenants, receiving nearly 40,000 votes. As you can see, the senator is a man who was involved, also because of his completed education towards legal and administrative direction, in the activities of various types of local governments, including the activities in public policy committees, i.e. the matter that the prosecution is dealing with. That's why we're calling the senator's candidacy for the National Public Prosecutor's Council. In turn, Senator Marek Pęk is a graduate of the Faculty of Law and Administration of the Jagiellonian University. He defended his Master's degree in the Department of Criminal Law, which is important when it comes to calling the institution in question. He then completed postgraduate studies in European law at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the Jagiellonian University. He has professional experience in the education of a lawyer, he worked as an assistant legal adviser, a stand-alone lawyer, an assistant management board, an assistant to the Parliament of the Republic of Poland and to the European Parliament, he also specializes in the field of European law. He also worked in a notary firm, as an employee employed by a notary in Krakow. He has specializations in the field of economic law, commercial company law, public limited liability companies and in many other fields, including construction law I'm not going to exchange everything to save you time. It's huge, it's all written, so I'm not gonna repeat it. I believe that Senator Marek Pęk, because of his professional training and his legal practice, is a very good candidate, whom I am pleased to recommend, is presented as being submitted by our committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls... [[Voice from the room: Rulewski...]] [[No, no.]] No? Thank you very much. [[In grace mode, I give up.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. Before adopting a resolution on the election of the members of the National Council of the Prosecutor's Office, the Senate may invite candidates to provide explanations and answer the questions of the senators. Do any of you senators want to ask Senator Mark Pop a question? I don't see any reports or hear them. Do any of you senators want to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question? I can't hear you either. We proceed with the vote on the election of the members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. The Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter by an absolute majority in a secret vote in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the senators of the secretaries, Senator Jerzy Wcisla, Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Rafał Ambrozik. In a moment, the appointed senators will be handing out secret ballots to the senators. I would like to inform you that there are at most two marks on the ballot. The card on which more than two characters are placed will be treated as a void voice. The senator may abstain from voting or be against all candidates, then leave the card empty, without putting any mark on it. This card will be counted as an important vote. After completing the ballots of the secret state, the senators will insert the ballots in alphabetical order into the ballot boxes, then the session will be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. Now I ask the senators of the secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators. It's about filling out these cards. [[Didn't anyone get the card? Everybody got one?]] We're handing out cards. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Already? Well, go ahead. There you go. [[Dear Senators, I'll be reading the list...]] No, no, no, no. Wait a minute. Wait a minute, Mr. Senator. Did all the senators receive the ballots? [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] I ask Senator Jerzy Wczyła to read in alphabetical order the names of the senators, and I ask that the senators, after reading their names, put in the ballot box filled with ballots for secret ballots. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u22	I would ask one of the secretaries to take the urn and deliver it to Senator Jan Filip Libicki. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please cast the votes of the senators: − Raphael Michael Ambrozik, − Mieczysław Augustyn, − Adam Jerzy Bielan, − Grzegorz Michał Bierecki, − Przemysław Jack Błaszczyk, − Alexander Tomasz Bobka, − Richard Wiesław Bonisławski, − Waldemar B Member State, − Marek Stefan Borowski, − Bogdan Michal Borusewicz, − Barbara Boris-Damięcka, − Margareta Budner, − Jerzy Mieczysław Chróścikowski, − Zbigniew Jan Cichoń, − Leszek Czarnobaj, − Grzegorz Czelej, − Jerzy Czerwinski, − Dorota Czudowska, − Wiesław Józef Dobkowski, − Jan Dobrzyński, − Robert Dowhan, − Jarosław Duda, − Jerzy Felix Fedorovich, − Peter Flork, − Robert Kazimierz Gawl, − Adam Gawada, − Stanisław Gogach, − Mieczysław Józef Golba, − Arkadiusz Jakub Grabowski, − Tomasz Paweł Grodzki, − Maciej Tomasz Grubski, − John Vincent Hamerski, − Jan Maria Jackowski, − Andrzej Kaminski, − Stanisław Karczewski, − Wiesław Kilian, − Kazimierz Mariusz Kleina, − Bogdan Adam Klich, − Andrzej Kobiak, − Maria Sophia Blanket, − Stanislaw Rooster, − Władysław Komarnicki, − Tadeusz Viktor Kopcia, − Margaret Kopiczko, − Waldemar Jerzy Kraska, − Maciej Adam Łuczak, − Józef Mikołaj Łyczak, − Richard Bogdan Majer, − Marek Eryk Martynowski, − Łukasz Mikołajczyk, − Andrzej Tadeusz Mioduszewski, − Andrzej Kazimierz Biesiołek, − Krzysztof Stanisław Mroza, − Grzegorz Bernard Napieralski, − Jarosław Wojciech Oremski, − Bogusława Narzechowska, − Andrzej Michał Spider, − Maria Panczyk-Podzier, − Grzegorz Pekkis, − Mark Breaks, − Wojciech Piotr Piecha, − Leszek Mariana Piechota, − Aleksander August Pociej, − Mariana the Messenger, − Michael Franciszek Pocznego, − Krystian Karol Probierza, − Zdzisław Stanisław Pupa, − Konstanti Radziwilla, − Marek Dariusz Rocki, − Tadeusz Romanchuk, − Jadwiga Kazimiera Rotnicka, − Jan Rulewski, − Jarosław Rusiecki, − Sławomir Piotr Rybicki, − Czesław Wincenty Ryszka, − Janina Zofia Sagatowska, − Michael Sewerinski, − Krzysztof Mark Elephant, − Waldemar Jan Sługocki, − Andrzej Józef Stanisławek, − Lydia Eve Staron, − Grażyna Anna Sztark, − Alexander James Swede, − Anthony Szymanski, − Raphael Joseph the locksmith, − Przemysław Kazimierz Terminski, − Peter Wach, − Arthur Richard Warzocha, − Kazimierz Adam Wiatr, − Jack Władysław Włosowicz, − Andrzej Franciszek Wojtyla, − Alicia Maria Zając, − Joseph the Hare, − Barbara Grażyna Zdrojewska, − Peter Benedict Zientarski, − Jan Krzysztof Zarin, − Jerzy Wczyła. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u23	Have all the senators voted? [[Voices from the room: Yes.]] Thank you. Now I ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering a recess until 1:30. Time-out till 1:30. Please read the message. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. There will be an announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u24	I kindly inform you that the meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee will be held at 12.45 p.m. in room 182. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 34 to 13 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u25	Please take your seats. Resuming... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. We return to the second agenda: the selection of senators for the National Public Prosecutor's Council. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I'm declaring the results. The minutes of the secret ballot of 10 December 2015 on the election of the members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Robert Dowhan and Senator Jerzy Wcisła state that the secret vote on the election of the members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council cast 88 votes, including important votes. The absolute majority of votes required shall be 34 votes. 67 senators voted in favour of the election of Senator Mark Pęka, and 67 senators voted in favour of the election of Senator Alexander Swede. The required majority of votes were obtained by the senators Marek Pęk and Alexander Szwed. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. The Senate has elected Senator Mark Pęk and Senator Alexander Swede to the National Public Prosecutor's Council. Congratulations to the senators. I ask the senators... of the senator to approach the president's table. I'd like to give you a resolution on choice. Your Senator Pęka isn't here, he's abroad, so I'm going to present the nomination to Senator Swede. [[Applause]] High Senate, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the election of the Chairman of the Legislative Commission and consideration of it as a third point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed to the third item on the agenda: the election of the Chairman of the Legislative Commission. The draft resolution prepared by the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs is included in print No 25. I would like to inform you that the proposal for the election of Senator Stanisław Gogach as Chairman of the Legislative Commission has been welcomed by the Senior Convention. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to speak and to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a proposal from the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs for the election of the Chairman of the Legislative Commission. On 10 December 2015, a meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senatorial Affairs Committee was held, following a request from the President of the Legislative Commission, Mr Zbigniew Cichonia, together with a notice that a meeting of the Legislative Committee was held on 10 December 2015, during which the committee elected Senator Stanisław Gogach from its composition as a candidate for chairman of the committee. The Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senate Affairs also took note of the opinion of the Senior Convention, which was presented at the committee meeting in writing. The committee has therefore prepared a proposal for the election of the Chair of the Legislative Commission. On the basis of the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the Commission shall present the following draft resolution. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the election of the Chairman of the Legislative Commission: Art. 1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, elects Senator Stanisław Gogach as Chairman of the Legislative Commission. Art. 2. The resolution shall enter into force on the date of its adoption. The draft resolution was adopted unanimously by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u27	Thank you very much. I ask the representative of the Legislative Commission, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, to speak and present Senator Stanisław Gogach's candidacy as Chairman of the Legislative Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In such a short period, it is my pleasure to present the candidate for the Chair of the Legislative Commission for the second time, after the outgoing Senator Paszkowski, who has proved himself perfectly well. as chairman of the committee. This time, it is my pleasure to present the candidacy of Senator Stanisław Gogach. Both his substantive preparation and his personal qualities have decided that he was elected in our committee almost unanimously. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator Stanisław Gogacz is a lawyer. He graduated from the Faculty of Canon Law of the Catholic University of Lublin, followed by doctoral studies at the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University at the Chair of Philosophy of Law and Human Rights. It is important for this matter that, during the fourth term of the Senate, he was Deputy Chairman of the Legislative Commission and was then a member of the Legislative Commission in the seventh term. So, as you can see, he has a lot of experience working on this committee, because he also led this committee, and he was a member of this committee. In the last election he was elected to the Senate for the fourth time, for the fourth term. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the years 2002-2006 he was a Councilman of the Sejm of the Lublin Voivodeship... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] During this time he was also the deputy marshal of the Lublin Voivodship, responsible for health protection. I have already congratulated my colleague, as Vice-President of the Committee, on my warm congratulations 'Cause I think you're gonna support that candidacy. And I am pleased to introduce you to my colleague Stanisław Gogach as chairman of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u29	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We proceed with a secret vote on the election of Senator Stanisław Gogach as Chairman of the Legislative Commission. A secret ballot shall take place using sealed ballots. To hold a secret ballot, I appoint the secretaries: Senator Alexander Sweed, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator George Wcisla. In a moment, the senators will hand you the sealed ballots to the senators. The secret ballot shall be marked with only one mark on the ballot. The ballot card, which has more than one mark on it or which has not been placed on it, shall be deemed to be null and void. After filling out the cards, the senators who are read in alphabetical order will throw these cards into the urn. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators. It's about filling out these cards. Senator Bear reporting?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u30	Yes, Mr. Marshal, I'm here on a formal matter. That is, about the previous vote. I'd like to know why there were so many votes that weren't valid. Does this mean that senators can't vote in such a simple vote, or was something on these cards added or drawn? What's the deal with the votes that don't matter? [[The cards have been returned clean.]] Then tell me how you could vote against. 'Cause there was only one box in there, which means all you could do was vote in favour. Is this vote important then? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u31	From the information that has now been given to me, it appears that the cards that have not been marked with the "x" mark are also valid votes. As a result, I'm managing a three-minute recess to improve protocol...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u32	Mr. Marshal, but I asked one more question: how could you vote against? Because that's what this is all about... After all, you can vote in favour, against or abstain because you may not have an opinion on the candidate. And it's like there's no way... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u33	Quiet, High Izbo. [[Voice from the hall: It was possible to cast the vote void, then two characters]] The voice that wasn't important could have been given back. Mr. Senator, this is how the card... According to this system, we've always chosen... [[Voices from the room: No, no! Not once!]] [[Voice from the room: It was the first time.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u34	Mr. Marshal, I think there's an alternative to this system, I mean, if there's no way to delete it or if there's one grate... As far as I remember, if this system is being applied, there is an alternative: either vote for or vote against. So inexorably means voting against... [[Voice from the room: What about holding off?]] Well, there's no way to abstain here, ladies and gentlemen, which means it's possible to vote either in favour or against. There's already been this type of vote, and that's how it was to be treated. If I'm wrong, of course I'd like to hear the explanation, but I think that the absence of deletion was tantamount to voting against it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u35	Senator, you're welcome. [[I'd just like to ask your marshal...]] I voted for your marshal because she volunteered first. Miss... [[Senator Rotnicka.]] Senator Rotnicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u36	Due to the confusion that arose, I realized that the card, the one used in the previous vote... In the absence of deletions, no vote shall be taken. There was no alternative solution. It's a vote against. Since there's a second vote, I'd like to ask you right now. Not judging what happened before, because this should be explained by the Rules of Procedure... I would like to ask what the voting card for the Chair of the Legislative Commission will look like. I think this card should give the senators an alternative: I vote in favour, against or hold back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u37	Thank you very much. In order, they volunteered... Senator Libicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u38	I'd just like to ask if your marshal or the scruple committee In that previous vote, we were able to vote against. Was that a possibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u39	Yeah, by deleting... by marking two characters "x". Yes? [[Voices from the room: No, no!]] [[The voice from the hall: You could leave the card empty and it meant either I hold back or I vote against. Leaving the card empty was a vote against.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion... I'd like to... You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Marshal Karczewski.]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u40	I understand that there are doubts about the interpretation of this vote, but before issuing the cards, we have set out the conditions for voting. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voices from the hall: Yes, yes.]] Of course I did, because it was read. I read it myself... And it's always read. There's so much noise in the courtroom that no one can hear it, but it's been read, read exactly what needs to be done and how. We cannot change the voting rules at the moment because the vote has already taken place, ladies and gentlemen, and that would be against the rules of procedure. I propose a recess because, according to the information I have, the committee has misinterpreted the vote. I would suggest if there were any comments on this, that the committee... that the Senators of the Secretarys re-write the minutes, in accordance with the rules that have been announced. Because this protocol At least that's how I understood it, but I'm not quite sure it's been wrong... I mean, the committee misinterpreted the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u41	Marshal Borowski has come forward. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u42	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I don't know if there's a record of that information you've been passing on to Marshal Karczewski by now. He really talked about what a certain type of vote means. Except I honestly don't remember what he said at the time, because... if that was explained, well, that was explained. But as it was explained, we should know right now. 'Cause if by chance that explanation was wrong I don't allow it, but I say, if by chance it's wrong. That would then be the reason for the vote being resumptuous. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u43	Quiet, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that important votes have been cast 67 is clear. It is only a question of interpretation of the other votes, whether they are votes against, whether they are invalid. I'm taking a ten-minute break right now, and please... Half an hour? [[Voice from the room: Half an hour.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Are you sure? I'm ordering a half-hour break... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...to analyze the ballots, please be quiet! In order to examine the ballot cards on which one vote in favour was not marked and to interpret them correctly. I'm ordering a half-hour break until 2:20 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 50 to 14 minutes 20]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the second agenda: the selection of senators for the National Public Prosecutor's Council. For the sake of order, I would like to read you the information that Marshal Karczewski gave prior to the vote. I quote: "I would like to inform you that there are at most two marks on the ballot. The card on which more than two characters are placed will be treated as a void voice. The senator may abstain or be against all candidates. Then he leaves the card empty, not putting any sign on it. This card will be counted as an important vote. That last piece of information is missing. Ladies and gentlemen, because the formula, the model of this card, raises our doubts as senators, because it is not possible to vote explicitly against or abstain, I have asked that in the future, this type of vote should clearly be able to vote in favour, against and abstain. Then it will be very clear. For the record, this is how the cards work... This is how we have voted for many years, but this problem has only now arisen. In the future, I have committed our employees to make the cards transparent. However, I would like to point out very strongly that it does not matter for the choice itself, because here the absolute majority of votes is decided by the candidate to obtain the right number of votes in favour. These candidates have gotten one. The problem concerns only how many votes against and how many senators abstained. I will read again the revised secret ballot protocol of 10 December 2015 on the election of the members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Jerzy Wcisla, states that in a secret vote on the election of members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council, 88 votes were cast as I had previously read in this important 88. So they were all important. The absolute majority of votes required shall be 45. 67 senators voted in favour of Senator Mark Pęk's election. 67 senators voted in favour of the election of Senator Alexander Swede. The absolute majority of votes required was awarded: Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Alexander Szwed. So the results don't change. The number of valid votes has been misinterpreted. And that's the only element that's been corrected. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the future the cards are clearly designed. Given that it does not matter whether someone voted against or abstained for the very choice, I would like to say that it is important for us as senators to know how many votes against the candidate has received and how many senators have abstained. Do any of you have any doubts? What's the point? No. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of members of the National Public Prosecutor's Council. The Senate has elected Senator Mark Pęk and Senator Alexander Swede to the National Public Prosecutor's Council. [[Applause]] High Senate, we are back to the third item on the agenda: the election of the Chairman of the Legislative Commission. We ended this point at the handout stage. I ask the secretaries to hand out the ballots. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Have all the senators received secret ballots? [[Voice from the room: No.]] That's it? Good. I ask Senator Jerzy Wczyła to read the names of the senators in turn, and I ask the senators to insert their names into the ballot box filled with secret ballots after reading them.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u44	I'd like to ask... [[Read it.]] Please hand over the urn to Senator Libicki. Senators: Rafał Ambrozik, Mieczysław Augustyn, Adam Bielan, Grzegorz Bierecki, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Alexander Bobko, Richard Bonisławski, Waldemar Bonkowski, Marek Borowski, Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Bogdan Michał Borusewicz, Margareta Budner, Jerzy Chróścikowski, Zbigniew Silence, Leszek Czarnobaj, Grzegorz Czelej, Jerzy Czerwinski, Dorota Czudowska, Wiesław Dobkowski, Jan Dobrzyński, Robert Dowhan, Jarosław Duda, Jerzy Fedorowicz, Peter Florek, Robert Gaweł, Adam Gawada, Stanisław Gogacz, Mieczysław Golba, Arkadiusz Grabowski, Thomas Grodzki, Maciej Grubski, Jan Hamerski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Andrzej Kaminski, Stanisław Karczewski, Wiesław Kilian, Kazimierz Kleina, Bogdan Klich, Andrzej Kobiak, Maria Blanket, Stanisław Rooster, Władysław Komarnicki, Tadeusz Kopeć, Margaret Kopiczko, Waldemar Kraska, Maciej Adam Łuczak, Józef Mikołaj Łyczak, Richard Majer, Robert Mammetov, Marek Martynowski, Łukasz Mikołajczyk, Andrzej Mioduszewski, Andrzej Bear, Christopher Frost, Grzegorz Napieralski, Jarosław Oremski, Bogusława Orzechowska, Andrzej Spider, Maria Panczyk-Podziej, Grzegorz Pekkis, Mark Pęk, Wojciech Piech, Leszek Piechota, Alexander Pociej, Marian the Messenger, Michał Potrowiczny, Krystian Probier, Zdzisław Stanisław Pupa, Constantine Radziwill, Marek Rocki, Tadeusz Romanchuk, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jan Rulewski, Jarosław Rusiecki, Sławomir Rybicki, Czesław Ryszka, Janina Sagatowska, Michael Sewerinski, Christopher Elephant, Waldemar Sługocki, Andrzej Stanisławek, Lydia Staron, Grażyna Sztark, Alexander Swed, Antoni Szymanski, Raphael the locksmith, Przemysław Terminski, Peter Wach, Arthur Warzocha, Kazimierz Wind, Jacek Włosowicz, Andrzej Wojtyla, Alicia the Hare, Joseph the Hare, Barbara Zdrojewska, Piotr Zientarski, Jan Krzysztof Żaryn, Jerzy Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u45	Have all the senators voted? Everyone. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate the votes and draw up the minutes of the secret ballot. I'm ordering an adjournment until 2.45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 28 to 14 minutes 45]] Please take your seats... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, senators... I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the election of the Chairman of the Legislative Commission. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a secret ballot protocol. I now pronounce the results of the vote. Minutes of the secret vote of 10 December this year on the election of Senator Stanisław Gogach as Chairman of the Legislative Commission. Senator Alexander Szwed, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, states that in a secret vote on the election of Senator Stanisław Gogach as chairman of the Legislative Commission 75 votes were cast, including 75 votes valid, 66 Senators voted against, 4 Senators voted against, 5 Senators abstained. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the President of the Legislative Commission. I ask President Stanisław Gogach to approach the presidential table. I'd like to give you a resolution from the Senate. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much. Thank you.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the agenda for the fourth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? [[Talking in the O.R.]] The first was Senator Rafał Ambrozik. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u46	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to make three statements. The first statement is addressed to the President of the District Court in Łowicz Magdalena Piwowarczyk, the President of the District Court in Łódź Krzysztof Kacprzak and the President of the National Court Council Dariusz Zawistowski, and concerns the case of G.S. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you for a specific comment on the statement of reasons of the judgment of 23 May 2011 issued by the District Court in Łowicz on the reduction of maintenance, sygn. Act III RC39/11. Namely, in this judgment, establishing the amount of G.S.'s income, the court found that the statements and documents presented by the defendant in the above-mentioned case were reliable. The statement made by the defendant and indicated by the court that the defendant is purchasing horses to obtain more direct payments is noteworthy. Therefore, I ask you to dispel my doubts as to why the court believed this statement, but did not believe the rules in this regard which preach that the aid to horses These are the provisions in force in this regard. They just don't. The second statement is addressed to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. It concerns the control of the system of allocation of cases in Polish courts. Dear President, I ask you to undertake a review of the system of assignment of cases in Polish courts in connection with the letter received a few days ago by Mr. K.M., judge of the District Court in W., which indicates serious irregularities in this system. This is not a case of case law and I consider it appropriate that the Supreme Audit Chamber carry out such a check within its competence. This is so important that possible manipulation of cases undoubtedly has a negative impact on the functioning of the justice system as a whole. This is reflected, among other things, on the parties involved in the trial, when the judge may be overly involved in the proceedings and, in some cases, manipulating the selection of judges into specific cases. And a third statement, addressed to the National Courts Council, on irregularities in the system of allocating cases in Polish courts. High Rado! I request clarification of the case with which in February of this year the judge of the District Court in W., Mr K.M. To date, he has not received an appropriate response. The case concerns an issue which is extremely important for the efficiency of the judicial system, but also for the interests of the participants in the judicial process, namely the objective control of the allocation of cases. First of all, I ask you to answer the question of what control has been taken by the National Judicial Council in connection with the information contained in Mr K.M.'s letter. It is all the more worrying that it highlights the failure to investigate complaints and requests directly from the judicial community, which is proved by the Crown's failure to respond to the allegations already at the earlier stages of the examination of the complaint. Secondly, please inform me whether the National Judicial Council has taken action to regulate in detail the registration of cases in order to rule out the possibility of manipulation in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u47	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I address my statement to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. My senator's office was visited by the people of Żuromin, concerned about the problem of a very large increase in the number of deaths of young people due to drug use in recent years. Ten young people have already died in that city since March 2014. Local institutions feel helpless against these tragedies. The funds at their disposal have already been exhausted. In view of the situation presented, I ask the Minister to inform whether it is possible to support the District Police Command in Żuromin by officers specialising in the fight against drug addiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-10-senat-04-1.u49	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term will be made available to the senators within 30 days... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. ...after the Senate meeting. It will be available at the Senate Work Office in room 255. The fourth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland 9th term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[End of session at 14 minutes 52]]
