ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u1	I open the fifth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Robert Dowhan to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today marks the forty-fiveth anniversary of December 1970, on 17 December 1970 in Gdynia, the military opened fire to workers going to work. It was the most tragic event during the pacification of workers' protests on the Coast by the communist authorities. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the fallen. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[Voices from the hall: And let eternal light shine unto them.]] [[They remain in our memory.]] [[Voices from the hall: Let them rest in eternal peace. Amen.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to inform you that at this meeting it is planned to adopt a resolution commemorating these tragic events. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the first Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that the items on the first to ninth draft agenda be considered, although the prints on these items have been delivered at a later date than those referred to in Article. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[Voice from the room: There is opposition.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, High Sejm, I'd like to speak on behalf of the parliamentary club... [[Senator, I'm so sorry, we're in the Senate.]] High Senate, of course. I would like to ask you to include on the agenda a proposal submitted to the Marshal by the Senate Club of the Civic Platform and to supplement the order presented last week with a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland calling on the President of the Republic of Poland to comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 December and to take vows from the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr. Marshal at the Senior Convention meeting last week did not agree to an accelerated procedure, in accordance with the marshal's authority, and to put this into order today's Senate meeting, but new circumstances have emerged, Mr. Marshal. This new circumstance is the publication in the Official Journal of the Constitutional Tribunal judgment of 3 December, according to which 3 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were legally elected; of course, those who were elected in October. We therefore believe that the President should immediately take the oath from these judges and that is what we wanted to appeal for in this resolution. To sum up, the Civic Platform Club in the Senate asks your marshal to introduce this draft resolution on the current agenda of the Senate meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u3	Yes, Mr. Senator, I... Mr. Senator, the senator hastened a little, because I'd like to take the first part... And then I'm gonna ask you if anyone wants to fill in the blanks. You're in a bit of a hurry right now. I'll be right back to your senator's motion, and now I'd like to repeat... [[Thank you.]] Okay? I will return, Senator, to the senator's request, but at the moment, I have asked a question about the proposal to consider the points which I will repeat... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm going to repeat this now, so I would like your attention so that you can hear me and know what we are voting on and what the point we are talking about is. Okay? Once again, Mr. Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat what I have read. And as for the point about which... the senator can make formal requests at any time, they can be submitted at any time, but I would like to see the room's response to what we are talking about at the moment. So I propose that items be considered from the first to the ninth draft agenda, even though the prints for these items were delivered later than those referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[I object.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My objection concerns point two: the law amending the law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the budget law. Of course, it is very important that the amendment of the budget law that PiS is proposing for this year, but it is simple to increase the government's budget deficit so that more money can be spent next year. So here the matter is simple, while the law amending the law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the budget law is a rather complicated change concerning many laws, and in a situation in which we are to proceed at such a rate over this law, it was difficult for the senators to get to know it thoroughly. Therefore, I propose that this point be removed from order and transferred to the next next meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u5	I see. Senator Mammoths.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u6	I object. There was an opportunity to get acquainted with the materials, anyone could have done it. Whoever didn't, his loss. Thank you. [[Losing the entire Senate.]] [[Voice from the room: Photo can be taken from the photographer.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u7	Yes. Ladies and gentlemen, you are paying my attention to what I was talking about, because I was talking about the proposal to consider the points of order from the first to the ninth... But I understand that Mr. Marshal is objecting to one point only, point two? [[Just one point, one point, one point.]] I don't hear any objections about the other points. Senator Zdrojewska, please. [[I'd like to support...]] But there is no such formula, there is no formula to support proposals. [[Then I'd like to refer to what Senator Marmêtov said.]] But there's no such formula, Senator. Excuse me. There's a formal motion, there's an objection, and we're taking the floor... [[But Senator Marmątow...]] [[Voice from the room: Mammy.]] We're not discussing this right now... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, Senator Mammytov has objected, and there is no discussion at this moment. Let's move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u8	Mr. Marshal, but I'd like to ask you to speak in the return mode. Please, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to respond in return to what you said to Senator Marmątow. Mr. Senator said whoever wanted to get acquainted got to know him. That's what I heard. I would like to say that we entered the cultural committee's meeting and only then did we get the materials in hand. What I'm trying to say is that this is absolutely unacceptable. If there was some mode for the PiS senators to familiarize themselves with these assumptions, I would ask you to state why we are excluded from some additional, earlier mode of reading the laws, with draft laws. I'm informing your marshal that we didn't get this until the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u9	I understand that, Senator. We are voting on a formal proposal, and we are now going to vote. Mr Borusewicz made a formal request for exclusion from the agenda of item two: a law amending the law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the budget law. There was also an objection. And now we vote. Who is in favour of the motion to exclude this point? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 77 senators voted, 26 were in favour, 50 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote and in the absence of opposition to the other items on the agenda, I state that the Senate's proposal to take into account the items from the first to the ninth has been adopted. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code and consider it as item 10 of the agenda... [[Voice from O.R. 9th.]] ...the ninth, I apologize, yes, as item 9 of the agenda; a law amending the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and certain other laws and consider it as item 10 of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as item 13 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Now, Mr. Senator, let me ask you: would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I understand Senator Klich has already made his proposal. If you want to remind her briefly, go ahead. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u10	So at this point I request that the agenda be supplemented by a draft resolution of the Senate presented by the Senate Platform club, which calls on the President of the Republic of Poland to execute the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 3 December. We are, ladies and gentlemen, convinced that the word of justification is probably needed That waiting with this draft resolution until the next Senate meeting is unnecessary and that at the time when the Prime Minister decided to publish the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal in the Official Journal of the Constitutional Tribunal, all the conditions were met for the President to accept the oath from those of the judges who were legally elected. And this is the matter of this ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal. This could lead to a reduction in the level of the dispute as regards the Constitutional Tribunal, a major dispute, as we all know in this Chamber, for political life in Poland. Bearing in mind that the Constitutional Tribunal is one of the most important judicial authorities in Poland, it is the guarantee of a democratic legal system... This was the role given by the Constitutional Court by the Polish embodiment, the public, in a referendum in 1997, adopting a draft of the Constitution in force. Thus, taking a vow from legally elected judges would be in line with the principles and standards of the rule of law in Poland. And that is what we wanted to appeal for in this draft resolution. We would like to encourage all senators to support this draft resolution. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Mr. Senator, was this request submitted to the committee and examined at the committee meeting? Was it complex and was it considered?]] This request was made last week to the marshal asking him to speed up the procedure for examining it on the basis of an article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. [[But I am asking whether there was a committee meeting on this matter and whether this request was being considered.]] Well, no, because Mr. Marshal at the last convention refused to put him on the agenda of this Senate meeting we're starting right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u11	It's not the Senate meeting, it's the committee meeting. There's no committee report? There isn't. I see. You have the voice of Senator Wind, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The acceleration wasn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! There is no doubt that the President of the Brightest Republic of Poland was elected in the general election, and the scope of his powers and duties is formulated by the Constitution. [[Okay, there's a motion and there's an objection. Then we vote and that's it.]] It would not be good if the individual authorities of the State indicated, as it were, alongside the Constitution, who and what to do. That's why I object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u13	Thank you very much. We are voting against the opposition. Who's in favour of Senator Klich's motion? Please press the "Za" button. Who's against it? The anti button. Who's holding back? Please report the results. 80 senators voted, 25 were in favour, 54 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 2]] Please, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u14	I'm in two formal cases. The first concerns whether the Marshal has sent this draft resolution, which was just mentioned, to the committee. And the other thing...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u15	But it's not a formal conclusion. That's the question, Mr. Senator. We're done discussing this proposal, so... [[I formally request that the marshal...]] Does anyone want to speak on a formal matter? [[Me too.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u16	I haven't finished yet, Mr. Marshal. [[You're welcome.]] If you'll allow me, I'll be more specific, not in the form of a question, just a formal motion. And the conclusion is that the marshal should immediately refer this draft to the committee, in accordance with the rules of procedure. This is the first conclusion. And the second proposal is that the marshal should immediately refer the pending judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal to the Legislative Commission, in accordance with Section IXa. [[The formal proposals concern the Senate's deliberations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u17	This is not a formal conclusion, Mr. Senator, I might not answer, but I will say this: all the activities I do, I do according to the regulations. This motion for a resolution or a resolution was, of course, addressed to the committee. It wasn't a formal conclusion, Senator, certainly. And the senator knows that. Would any of you like to speak on the agenda? Because that was the question, ladies and gentlemen. No. I state that the Senate approved the order of the fifth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that we will proceed to the review of the Act on Public Finance after an hour. 2.30 p.m. In addition, I inform you that it is possible to announce a half-hour break today in the early afternoon. High Izbo, I would like to inform you that those of you who intend to take part in the discussion on a specific item on the agenda are voting for the secretary responsible for the list of speakers. The senator's speech in the discussion must not last more than 10 minutes. Signed proposals of a legislative nature are submitted by the senators to the Senate marshal until the debate is closed. In addition, I would like to remind you that voting takes place using electronic apparatus and consists in pressing the apparatus button and raising your hand. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the budget law for 2015. The text of the Act is contained in print No 29. After considering the relevant budgetary parts, the Senate committees forwarded their opinions to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which produced a report on the matter on their basis. It is printed in print No 29 A. I would ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on the Act amending the Budget Law for 2015. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance met twice: yesterday in the evening and this morning. It examined the reports submitted by the various Senate committees. All Senate committees requested the adoption of a law without amendment with regard to the departments that they had consulted. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance also presented a proposal for the adoption of this law without amendments. This conclusion is contained in print No 29 A. The Commission held a very broad discussion at its meeting. The senators were very keen on the reasons for this amendment. The explanations were provided by representatives of the Ministry of Finance present at the meeting. They were satisfactory to the committee and therefore the committee recommends that the law be adopted without amendments. The reasons for this amendment are likely to have been repeatedly informed by the senators during the speeches; if you have even followed the debate in the Sejm... Let me just give you a few numbers. First of all, the most important issue: loss in VAT income, estimated in 2015 at PLN 13 billion 329 thousand. This loss, the deficit made it necessary to implement the 2015 budget by increasing the deficit by PLN 3 billion 900 000 in order to ensure the proper implementation of the budget and the performance of the State's tasks in the face of much smaller than the forecast revenues of the State's VAT budget. So much for my report, ladies and gentlemen. I will, of course, be grateful for the questions and will be happy to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u20	Mr. Senator, I'm interested in raising the deficit because that's what this amendment of the bill is for. What is the justification for the increase in the deficit, and what will this have to do with our exit from the restrictions that the Commission has imposed on us, and from which we have come out recently? It is about the tightening of the excessive deficit.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u21	There you go, Mr. Senator... Are there any more questions for the senator? Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. At the committee meeting, we have just discussed a lot about amending the budget law, paying attention to the problems related to the implementation of the budget for the current year. Initially, the Minister of Finance suggested that the increase in the deficit would amount to about PLN 10 billion. After various changes and corrections it turns out that this increase in the deficit will amount to a maximum of PLN 3.5 billion. But at the end of November this year, the development of the planned budget deficit law for 2015 amounted to PLN 36 billion when 46 billion PLN was planned in the budget. Thus, according to the current law, it would be necessary to increase the deficit, i.e. to use this deficit reserve, by about PLN 10 billion, in order to implement the budget in those amounts provided for in the 2015 Act. Does it not seem to the President that there is no need to amend the budget and increase the deficit by PLN 3 billion, because it is unlikely that even this amount, which was in the original budget law foreseen for 2015, will be used?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u23	Thank you very much. And also, Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u24	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, you mentioned the absence of budgetary revenue of several billion zlotys, and you did not mention the surpluses in the budget due to the impossibility of spending certain funds, whether for natural reasons, whether for various organisational reasons or because of slippages. How much is this surplus?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u26	Thank you very much. I'll answer it one at a time. Marshal Borusewicz asked about the consequences of this increase in the deficit. Transitionally, according to ESA 2010 standards, the general government deficit may exceed 3% in 2015. I understand that the Minister will be able to address this in detail in her speech. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from commitments remaining to be settled from the previous financial year. As far as Senator Rulewski's question of revenue is concerned, about the differences in budget implementation, I would like to remind you that these budget sections, according to budget philosophy, have certain limits on their expenditure. The amounts entered in the budget are, after all, not the amounts of expenditure planned; this is the principle of maximum expenditure entered in the budget. There are always natural savings resulting from the failure of part of the tasks, the delay in their completion or the performance of them cheaper than it was designed. Such savings have also emerged here. On the basis of the decisions submitted on the blockades received by the Ministry of Finance, it was possible to reduce the expenditure limit by about PLN 6.5 billion. Therefore, the difference between the absence of VAT revenue, mainly VAT and these natural savings in the budget, makes the government in the bill submitted a slightly more than PLN 3 billion increase in the deficit. There was also a question of Senator Kleina regarding, I understand, the need for an amendment. I would have linguistically distinguished the necessity from the need. There is certainly a need to revise this budget. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u27	Thank you very much. More questions? Senator Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have the following questions for the senator. What was the level of debt of the Polish state in the years 2007 to 2015? How he was in debt of the Polish state until 2007 and what the consequences for this year's budget... I am thinking here, for example, about the issue of borrowing part of the debt in dollars and the increase in the dollar rate. What impact did this year's budget have on this undoubted increase in the Polish state's debt? I would very much ask the senator for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u29	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u30	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in part of the budget 78 we divide the debt into domestic and foreign, part 78 of the service of foreign debt is planned for expenditure of PLN 10 billion 168 million. These expenses are expected to amount to PLN 9 billion 818 million. This is the result, above all, of the more favourable development of exchange rates and interest rates compared to those previously assumed. So here there is some savings, as well as, what is important, lower than the planned readiness fee so-called. the flexible credit line of the International Monetary Fund. In part, the service of foreign debt has shown us savings. In the section on the handling of national debt, the planned expenditure was 22 billion 82 million. The projected expenditure by the end of 2015 will amount to almost 20 billion - 19 billion - 933 million. Thus, there are also savings resulting from a number of transactions related to the distribution of the national debt in 2014. Of course, we are faced with high debt. This debt has a structure that makes our budget vulnerable to shocks resulting from exchange rate changes. The Ministry of Finance, I understand, with particular concern # Like all of us # It is observing a change in the dollar's rate which will affect the amount of amounts allocated to the service of foreign debt. This structure, which for several years has been consistently created, the structure of over-indebtedness of the Polish state abroad, is maintained. I understand that now the government will consistently implement a plan to change the debt structure so that most of the debt is in the hands of national entities, especially Polish citizens, who will be interested in investing in state bonds, mainly for austerity reasons. But of course it takes time, peace and consequence, so these actions must be spread over years. Unfortunately, the devastating activity primarily of Minister Rostowski, who for the last eight... seven years of his activity Then Minister Ratchurek continued this practice He was too eager to borrow abroad, too expensive to borrow abroad... This is something that the current government will have to fix.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u31	Thank you very much. Questions. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. You mentioned a VAT loss of 13 billion. What are the main causes of this deficiency? Can you explain? If not, I'll ask the minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u33	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u34	Thank you very much. The main reason is... there are several reasons. VAT revenue was particularly low in the first half of 2015, and it was lower by as much as 4 billion 772 million PLN, so the dynamics of revenue in the second half of the year improved. And what did it do in the first half of the year? First of all, this was the introduction of facilitations for entities with the status of authorised economic operator, so-called. That's the name we're taking here. . which relate to the possibility of clearing VAT on imports from outside the European Union directly in the tax return. This resulted in a shift in VAT revenue observed in 2015. Of course, this effect, which I gave as a reason, does not fully explain the loss of VAT revenue. I think we are also dealing with a large scale of fraud, VAT-related crime. As I understand it, the Ministry will take action at the right time to seal the system and increase VAT collection. This vato gap continues to persist. In the years that followed, we watched... In previous years, we have always pointed to this gap, a hole in VAT, in the debates. In the last 8 years, the government has been powerless, this hole, the gap in VAT collection has remained constant and has even increased, as you can see, in 2015, especially in the first half of the year. The Minister certainly has detailed data showing the evolution of VAT collection and the size of the gap in this collection in previous years.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u35	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u36	Mr President, the financial justification for the bill shows the budget figures of October. Today is the second half of December, we know more about the budget. There is no lack of opinion that the unchanged budget would have been successful without the need for an amendment. Did you get the current forecast of both revenue and expenditure at the committee meeting? Because this is crucial when it comes to answering the question of whether this amendment is needed at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u37	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u38	Yeah, that question came up at the committee meeting. And we have received this response from representatives of the Ministry of Finance who have up-to-date data: this revision of the budget is needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u39	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u40	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Following my colleague's question, I would like to ask you: how do you think the impact of this situation, which has occurred in recent months this year, has some consequences, i.e. decrease in listings on the stock exchange And I will add exchange rates to that, and I will add the situation of the most important Polish companies... I would like to ask you about the senator's opinion on what is the situation we have at the moment, regarding recent months, that will have an impact on this year's and next year's budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u41	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u42	Thank you very much. The Commission, of course, did not ask such questions, the members of the committee did not ask such questions. The answer to such questions is sought by analysts of all the largest banks around the world, well paid. And those who find the right answer, of course, win this roulette. So, Senator, if you talk about how the exchange rates are going to evolve, what's going to happen in the world economy... This is a conversation for financial analysts, for specialists who are so often wrong, as we have seen in recent years of crisis. There is one thing I would like to draw attention to. We're dealing with... The situation of the stock exchange, the exchange rates are largely due to the economic cycle that is in the United States. There the end of the period of so-called quantitative relaxation by the Federal Reserve, i.e. the increase in interest rates, announced earlier, well in advance... This had an impact on the US dollar exchange rate, the world's main currency, against all currencies. This increase, which has taken place in recent days, has to a large extent been taken into account, due to the expectations of this increase, in exchange rates. So the question is how quickly the Federal Reserve will make further changes in interest rates in the United States. But that's a question I wouldn't dare answer here. This, of course, affects the situation of the entire market or the so-called emerging markets at all. What happens to the Polish stock market does not differ from the situation in other emerging markets. Capital flows away from these emerging markets also as a result of the US market situation, returning to a country where positive investment can be found again. Such activities are cyclical activities, but they are anticipated. And I think we're prepared for these changes. After all, the Ministry of Finance was aware of the envisaged scenario. This scenario, I have the impression, is written in this law, as well as in the draft law for 2016. So the consequences of the circumstances that the senator is talking about are already in the budget. As for these big companies... well, these big companies have been treated with special taxes in previous years, so to speak. We are talking here about a tax that actually was a tax on KGHM and also a so-called hydrocarbon tax. These big companies were treated with these taxes. What's going on... what did it have to do with the budget? Undoubtedly, a positive tax has contributed to the budget. How did this affect the course of action? As you can see, when you observe graphs from the past, actually irrelevant. I hope you're satisfied with this answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u43	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Florek a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u44	Mr Senator, everything points to the fact that the 2015 budget was well planned, well received, because the VAT revenue you are talking about will be less, say, about PLN 10 billion, and the expenditure shows it all. According to the latest data we have, about 6.5 billion zlotys will be smaller. This is, of course, due to the blockade that is currently underway. We know these expenses are going to be smaller, and this blockage is for a certain day... So, all indications are that these expenses can be significantly reduced by the end of the year. My question is: why are we updating this at the last minute, at the end of the month, a budget that is likely to be well implemented, as planned? Do we have any? That's another question. The State Treasury's obligations, and if we do not revise this budget, will we not cover any of the State Treasury's obligations for this reason? I don't think there's a problem here. And if there's no problem covering here, then why is there this amendment in the last days of December?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u45	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u46	Thank you very much. I'm sure the Minister will give you more information. But I wouldn't want us in this room to feel that the budget was well-structured. He wasn't well-designed. What happened was, above all, an extraordinary loss of the State's VAT revenue. There was a mistake of almost 13 billion, over 13 billion. The fact that the deficit will be reduced as a result of non-expenditure is not due to those who prepared the budget, but it means that there are no actions left. implemented, and this meant, as I understand it, the need to shift certain expenditures to future periods. There are natural savings, that's true, but you have to... I understand that the managers of the various budget items had to refrain from spending certain funds because, on the other hand, there was not enough revenue. Of course, this failure to obtain VAT revenue results from bad VAT regulations It may be too late to be introduced because, as I mentioned, this loss of income occurred in the first half of the year. So that I would disagree with the senator that this budget was well designed. The fact that the government comes here asking for a slightly more than 3 billion deficit increases is solely due to the government's efficiency over the last months of this year and to the responsible policy pursued by the current government. [[Applause]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Oh, no, bravo! Bravo!]] [[Even the piss senators laugh at it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u47	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for giving the floor. I just want to say... Because in answer to my question, Senator Bierecki was mostly global, but we are all aware of the global influences, the pulses of the economy, the London, China or New York Stock Exchange on our economy... [[Or Warsaw.]] We're all aware of that. And I've been asking about our domestic affairs here. And this was about what happened to the exchange rates, the decrease in the value of the zloty, and what happened to the decline in the stock market, where so many companies threatened with changes in company boards, etc., etc. It's lost its worth. And since the senator has already mentioned the mine tax, I'd like to remind you 'Cause maybe not all senators figure it out. As it was with the mine tax. Indeed, this tax was included in the budget. During the election campaign, she came to us. I come from Lower Silesia then a candidate for Prime Minister, Prime Minister Szydło, and she promised that this tax would be abolished. As a result, KGHM's shares were at a good level Because it is known that for the company and for shareholders it was good information. But when not so long ago, because after the election, it was announced that in next year's budget 'Cause here I'm referring to next year's budget. This tax will not be abolished, it has turned out that the shares have fallen. So I'm referring to the specifics of the country here. And I would very much ask the senator... Because every promise made in the election should be realized as soon as possible, and if it is not implemented, then, Senator, this has a huge impact on the economy. And all these fluctuations are, in my opinion, fatal. So, thank you for your attention. I just wanted to ask about these issues and to address national specifics rather than the global economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u49	Mr Senator, before I ask for an answer, I would like to remind you that the senators are now allowed to submit a question to the rapporteur's senator for no more than a minute. These are questions. At the end of the work on this point there will be time for speeches and each of the senators will have 10 minutes. Therefore, I ask you to ask questions that last no longer than 1 minute. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs. Senator, it is impossible to ask about the relationship between the exchange rate and other currencies not to mention the world situation. The fact that the gold is now losing in relation to the main currencies is primarily the result of the Federal Reserve, the US Federal Reserve, which is currently shaking the currency market. An event consisting of an increase in the value of the dollar compared to other currencies, because not only to the Polish currency, is a shock to the economy of the whole world. Many countries will be in trouble because they are over-indebted in American currency. Whoever is in debt is not free, and whoever is in debt to strangers is a slave to those aliens. The structure of the debt I mentioned earlier is extremely important for the stability of Polish finances. And if you are also so interested in the issue of the relationship, the rate of the zloty towards other currencies, I would like to remind you that the thing that we were very concerned about in this House in the previous term of office was the issue of franc credits. This is a ticking bomb, these franc credits is a ticking bomb, this is a problem that will be extremely important for the Polish economy if the currency situation continues. You told me about the changes in company boards and the impact on the stock exchange. Course fluctuations always occur when there is some anxiety about these companies. I am convinced that these are periodic fluctuations, because certainly these companies will be governed by competent people who will ensure the high profitability of these companies and investors will be very pleased with this activity. I think that this government will also not create surprises for major stock companies and they will not be surprised, as it has been in the past, e.g. taxes from KGHM or hydrocarbons that were introduced too quickly. The banking tax, which we will probably soon be dealing with in this Chamber, was announced early enough, and I think everyone has already counted and become accustomed to paying such a tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u51	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Blackbay's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u52	Senator, first of all, I'd like to congratulate the good propaganda on the fact that that budget and what was there is wrong, and now it's okay, now it's okay. Let's get to the question. Mr. Senator, this was not at the committee meeting, but this was said here by your senator, I am thinking of the amount of perhaps over 3 billion 600 million in terms of deficit correction. You told the senator that we would now implement it in such a way that we would try to make the missing 3 billion 600, so to speak, finance Polish capital. That's how I figured it out. Yes? I'd ask you to elaborate on that. How does a senator, as a prominent financialist in the capital market, want to make this happen? And second question. You told the senator that there was a need to increase the deficit. Could you tell the senator that this need is also due to the fact that all the tasks that are planned... I'm not talking about the blocked ones, I'm talking about the others. Is the senator convinced that the budget on the expenditure side will be implemented so that it is necessary to increase the deficit by 3,6?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u53	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u54	Thank you very much. That last question is very easy. It was a question of whether I was convinced... Yeah, I'm pretty sure. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The answer is very simple. As for the deficit financed from Polish capital sources, Mr. Senator made a great shortcut concerning my previous statement... [[I had to fit in a minute.]] I am talking about a smart government policy that makes national debt in the hands of national actors. I would very much like national entities to finance Polish debt. To what extent will this be done in relation to this increase in the deficit we are talking about... this answer perhaps the Minister knows. I don't know what the plans are for the issue of bonds, how they will be managed and under what conditions. That's a good question you can ask the Minister. I understand that the most important thing we all understand is that more important than how much debt you owe is who you're guilty of. If you're guilty to your citizens, as in many countries... [[You don't get paid?]] ...it happens, these citizens then do not put the difficult conditions of the borrower, which is the state budget. They do not put up difficult conditions, and these foreign debt owners are able to do what they did to countries like Greece, for example, to demand more and more, and with their demands to devastate the economy of the country in debt. So it's important... I, Senator, have spoken more philosophically about the policy of this debt or the philosophy of sovereign debt. I did not refer to this specific deficit amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u56	Mr. Marshal, thank you. Mr President, one introductory phrase. This initiative reminds me of the situation of the golden train at Wałbrzych. It's gold, and it's like it's gone. We have a good budget, but it's like he's not there. Let's get to the question. You pointed out that this deficit is increasing by nearly PLN 4 billion. This is exactly what I recall with the declaration made on behalf of the Polish state in Kiev by the President, who there announced the launch of a credit line for Ukraine in the amount of PLN 4 billion. The question is, was it agreed with the government? On what basis does the president, in excess of his powers, solve the economic problems of another country?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u57	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u58	Thank you very much. None of these questions concern an amendment to which I am rapporteur. Yes? There's no gold train in this bill. What's worse, he's never been there. The law was not well written, it was not well prepared. Well, this 13 billion-piece hole is probably sufficient proof that intervention is needed. This budget should be properly structured. The point is that we can finally stop having budgets taken from the ceiling or pulled from some mouse hole, just have real budgets. I remind you of the discussion from the previous term, when this amendment had to be done on a hurricane, and the deficit related to the need to pay to the Social Insurance Fund jumped miraculously in this corridor from the Sejm to the Senate from PLN 5 to perhaps PLN 15 billion. Right? This was the scale of the quality of the preparation of the country's budget documents. And now we're correcting, we're correcting... These budgets are to be written well, precisely, as far as it can be done in changing economic circumstances. After all, we are living in very interesting times and much needs to be changed in subsequent laws that we will be discussing today. [[Credit for Ukraine for 4 billion PLN.]] I'll be right back. I'll be right back. On the agenda we have further laws, which are also evidence of a proper and rapid response to changing circumstances. I'm talking about a law that concerns the change of the so-called. expenditure rules. Credit for Ukraine for 4 billion PLN... I can't relate to that. I don't have any information about that. But we're talking here, I understand, about credit, not about spending. Mr. Senator, there's revenue and expenses in the budget. Credit is an investment, so it's somewhere else. I don't think this is where you might be looking, and you might not be asking here. And as for your comments on the possibility of making such proposals to our most important partner in the East, Ukraine, of making proposals by the first citizen of our country, I think they were inappropriate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u59	Thank you very much. In order, Senator Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. It always hurts me to see how easily the work of the Ministry is discredited, especially the Ministry of Finance, which, regardless of who is in charge, always tries to act rationally, cares for public finances and strives to ensure that money is actually spent in a rational way. I think it's happened so far, it's happening now, and it's going to happen in the future. But I would like to ask you this question about your speech on the revision of the budget. You said, in answer to my question, that there may be no need to change the budget, but there is a need. I understand the lack of necessity. Would you mind telling us what needs caused such a proposal for change?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u61	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u62	Thank you very much. I am sure that the Minister will be able to say more about the size of the reserve planned and its use. We did not obtain detailed information during the committee meeting. I know it's in preparation. But I understand that there is a budgetary reserve that can still be used for important projects this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u63	Thank you very much. In order, Mr. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! If I could just... First of all, I have a request to use as few adjectives as possible in the report, for as many other terms as possible, and in the presentation of as many adjectives as possible. If you don't mind... And I'd like to ask you again what the senator was talking about. That's a very interesting topic. It's about financing the deficit. If possible, please give me one example that here is money from, I do not know, Western banks or Western investors is more aggressive than money from residents and entities of the Republic of Poland. One such example or two examples. Why is it better, like you said, and why would this money be more aggressive, as I understand it, when it comes to Western banks? This is a very interesting topic, which is why I'm interested.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u65	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u66	I understand that the senator was cut off from the media for a long time and did not observe what was going on in the countries of southern Europe that were trapped in debt, mostly foreign. And the senator didn't notice how the interest expectations of the investors, the buyers of the bonds of those countries increased, and how much interest they received on those bonds. That's the risk I was talking about. Were we dealing with such an event in Poland, or are we just talking about tackling the risks that exist and which have been highlighted in other countries? At the moment, I have no data to share with you regarding the possible pressure of foreign entities on the interest rate of Polish bonds. Those bonds have sold well so far. I have not heard that the Polish government has had problems with the sale of these bonds in recent years. But he paid well, too. In 2013, I hope I'm not wrong. The Polish bonds were one of the best investments in the world, giving together, after summing up interest and exchange rate gains, around 11%. I remember reading a paper on it. So that investors gained a very great advantage. Not only do domestic investors not exert pressure on the level of interest, which is rather austerity, yet the received interest income is spent in Poland. But I would not like to present here a report on the superiority of debt to my own citizens and to domestic companies over debt to foreign banks or to foreign financial groups. This is a topic for a very interesting seminar, although this view I am presenting to you is an absolutely common view, everyone in the world is convinced that it is best to borrow internally. I can give you a book by a guy named Krugman who did the whole lecture on the subject. . about intergenerational debt, the transfer of such debt to the next generation and how much debt is passed on to the next generation as regards domestic debt. And in the case of foreign debt, the next generation is transferred all debt to foreign capital. Well, in debt to its own citizens, interest is indeed at the expense of interest, because this debt is also a national saving.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u67	Thank you very much. Next in order is Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u68	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, do you know anything about the auction at LTE frequency? And if so, how much did she contribute and will this revenue be included in this year's budget or next year's? [[As far as I know... may I, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u69	Yes. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u70	Thank you. As far as I know, this auction hasn't been held yet, so these revenues aren't there yet. They are expected, designed, but about the dates and the proposed amount of funds obtained from this auction... I'm sure the Minister has some information on that. During the committee meeting there was talk of more than 9 billion PLN, if memory does not confuse me. Yes, Minister? Did I remember correctly? Yes. I'm sure you'll be briefed by the Minister on the deadlines and the exact amount of funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u71	Thank you very much. Professor Stanisławek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u72	Thank you very much. I would like to respond briefly first to the problem raised by Senator Blackobay. Many times more than GDP, Italy or Japan have no major problems because they are indebted internally. And now I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Last year and 2 years ago it was not possible to purchase bonds of the State Treasury in Poland, there were problems with it, it could be done by external institutions, non-Polish. If these bonds are now addressed to the internal market, will it be easier for a Polish citizen to buy them? Besides, there was a difference in interest rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u73	I've actually heard of such troubles. Even the president of one of the investment fund companies asked me This information also appeared in the media. The mysterious opening of the demand book for certain bonds after 4 p.m. in Warsaw. Then those bonds were in the portfolios of foreign entities that even benefited from the time difference, right? There was such a policy of over-indebtedness towards foreign entities, we owe it to Minister Rostowski's presence. I hope we're done with this policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u74	Thank you very much. Next in Order Mr. Senator Blackbay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! First of all, I would like to correct a point. I didn't ask what I was watching or what I wasn't watching. That's why I'd really like to ask... There will be time for speeches, and then the senator will be able to address my questions, criticize me, but I would ask you to answer questions at the stage of asking questions. I asked and asked for the first time... Professor, this is where he joined... Show me why, so to speak, the money of Western banks is worse than Polish money. It's from what you've said. That's how I figured it out, and I'm asking you to correct it. If the Greek economy or the Greek state budget were to spend as much as it seemed, or more, and it was to be indebted to its own banks, it would be all right in terms of deficit, economy and indicators. That's what I understand from the senator's statement, but once again I just want to hear it, if that's possible, Senator; if that's not possible, I accept it... Tell me what the mathematical indicators, contracts and other conclusions show when it comes to differences, because I'm curious. I'm not defending the fact that we owe ourselves to our own banks. What is the difference for the Polish economy, as far as I say, in money when we sell bonds in the inter-bank market, in the international market, and when only in the Polish market? I'm just finishing up the story. Just one more thing. Professor, I will give you the address of the website at break, where is the answer to the question of why the Italian economy is wobbling. It's just for information.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u76	Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u77	Thank you very much. In my previous term of office, I tried, even speaking of intergenerational debt, which is of interest to many parliaments, to interest Minister Rostowski in this problem and I even asked for appropriate calculations so that we could see how this debt will evolve in subsequent generations; for example. The American Congress expects regular information on the evolution of intergenerational debt. Its formation is influenced by the structure of debt, i.e. how much domestic savings are included in this debt and how the division of external debt looks. But if you finance the deficit, you have to take into account the level of national savings, and you can't talk about it without discussing the level of wages, the level of the minimum wage. It is also impossible to talk about national savings without discussing the ownership structure of companies, ownership of national capital, the one that operates in the country. So, Senator, you're asking me things that weren't the subject of the committee's work. I'm happy to answer, but I think we're both going nowhere in this discussion by asking you, I'm answering because it's right next to this presentation, which I'm honoured to report to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u78	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u79	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'd like to correct. I didn't even ask where to get the money to finance the debt. It was Mr Senator, who presented the report of the committee meeting, in which there was no discussion at all, that we should strive in this country to finance the debt with our own Polish capital. Now that you've brought it up, my question is, based on what? What's it like? I didn't expect an answer because I was at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u80	Thank you very much, Senator. I raised this question by answering a question about the structure of the debt. That was Senator Jackowski's question. So it wasn't in my report, it was in answer to questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u81	I just want to remind you that it is very often our practice that we often ask the rapporteurs on the occasion of the reports. And they're replying. On topics that drift around the issues raised at the committee meeting. That's the formula we've adopted, there's never been any objection. Very often we get very interesting information that enriches our knowledge. And that question is probably one of the ones we can thank you for. [[Thank you very much.]] Mr. Senator Dobkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you're talking about the difference in VAT revenue by more than 13% compared to the revenue planned in the budget. I would like to ask, what is the scale of VAT collection, that is, how much of the tax due has not been paid into the budget. I mean, how much should it affect... It's a percentage of the budget revenue. How much should it affect, how much could it affect, and not affect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u83	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u84	Thank you very much. I have a table in front of me, which unfortunately does not contain the percentages. Without the calculator, I can't count it quickly, so I'll give you the amount. In the draft budget law for 2015, the projected revenue from taxes on goods and services is 134 billion 630 million. The difference in the impact of this tax is EUR 13 billion 329 million, an estimated gap. [[Thank you very much...]] 13 billion 329 million, so that's about...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u85	That's about 10%. Senator Florek is the next person to ask questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u86	Senator rapporteur, I, in response to your previous statement: the budget is balanced when and when revenue and expenditure are balanced. You said that the budget must be well-structured, it must be realistic, and that there was no such income, they were missing in the budget, you believe that last year's budget is not well planned. Well, that's my question now. There are losses in income, but there are also losses in expenditure, for example due to the fact that the unemployment rate in Poland is less than planned, in my voivodship it is 6.1%. There are therefore many savings related to labour market benefits and unemployment benefits. Continuing with the rapporteur's thought, I will ask: what is the reason why these expenses are less than planned? What does that mean? That if the unemployment rate goes down, it's bad, because we're gonna do the budget wrong, it better be bigger, I understand, right? Because then you could spend more money. I would like to say that income and expenditure should be balanced, except that these are all certain figures and it cannot be assumed that if some revenue item is not carried out somewhere, it means that the budget is wrongly implemented. In general, I will repeat once again the budget planned for this year is a budget planned very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u87	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u88	Thank you very much. I was primarily referring to the revaluation of revenues. I remember that when the 2015 budget was adopted. and it is to be checked in transcripts After all, I was talking about the fact that he is overestimated, so politely I will say, and that for the purpose of the election campaign you have adopted the budget which was to show here the land of happiness. Right? It was adopted as part of the poetry of the green island. And now we have to fix it, fix it, make it real. 13 billion 329 million is the expected difference in VAT receipts. That's enough justification to make the budget better, and that's what we're doing. We're correcting it. Well, we're freaking out that propaganda thing you put in that budget just to say that. We have drawn the attention of the Minister. But it's not the first budget. I'll remind you that when you threatened to exceed the constitutional limits at... these budgets were designed... I don't mean to be rude, but I'd say they were frivolously designed. Oh, these budgets were frivolously designed. And I was telling Minister Rostowski that he's doing this kind of budget charity. And you had to update the budget. What year is this? Mr. Senator Klein, in that term of office in which year we had to budget so... [[Once.]] Once, that's right, we had to update it. [[Once, it's a practice in a special situation.]] Yeah, well, there was this special situation at the time. But I understand that you had to look for and that budget included tricks under the slogan of a loan to the Social Insurance Fund, they were included... As I asked Minister Rostowski, and from which they will be paid in the future by this FUS, he confessed that from the grant. Well, it's a barbecue, and the accountants say it's a budget barbecue. Well, it was hairy, but the reality turned out to be that we now need to update this budget. The absence of VAT revenue is sufficient to justify this change.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u89	Senator Dobkowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u90	Thank you. I would like to ask, Senator, because I received an answer, but I asked something else. These 13 billion 329 million zlotys are a fiscal gap in VAT, but in relation to the planned budget, which is in the budget law. And I'm talking about the difference between you and your due... I mean, I understand that you're planning some value of that influence, but this planned revenue doesn't have to be the same as the tax due. Was there even such an analysis... Well, because the fact that we have a gap with the planned budget, I know. But the point is whether the tax is really due and someone didn't pay or the budget was at all wrongly planned. I'm talking about the collection of VAT. For the collection, that is, how much of this tax has not been levied on the tax due. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u91	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u92	Well, I understand that in the case of what was planned in the budget bill, it was anticipated, as the senator put it, that you would download this VAT. The gap in VAT revenue continues in the coming years, and I gave this question to the Minister to tell her how this VAT gap has developed in recent years. Well, I've seen the publications of various economic commentators who even talked about a 40-millimeter luce. But how much it is and how the Ministry of Finance estimates the value of this gap, I'm sure the Minister will say. We are currently dealing with a submission, in which the difference between design and real influences, which we really expect at the end of this year, is over 13 billion. Well, that's all I can say on the basis of the documents that have been submitted to us and the committee discussions. [[I would also like to ask you in this question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u94	It's just that, uh... As I understand it, it could have been that the VAT revenue planned in the budget law could have been badly planned, because the taxes actually due could have been different, for example they could have been 13 billion less. It is simply about whether financial services can collect the VAT due. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u95	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u96	Let us hope that they will be equipped with appropriate regulations and tools, as well as that there will be a will to prosecute various groups who extort VAT in Poland. You, Mr. Senator, are actually asking if Minister Szczurek has planned too much revenue, whether such a surprise has come to our attention and less VAT money has been paid. Well, if I'm gonna play psychoanalyst and break up Minister Ratty's personality... I think he might have planned more than...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u97	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to... You're welcome, Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u98	I would like to benefit, Senator, Mr President, as regards... my question is about finances. Although it does not refer so strictly to what we are discussing today, but... I, as an entrepreneur, am constantly asked when there will be a reduction in CIT tax for small companies up to 15%. This is a very serious question, of course, related to the state's finances. [[I see...]] And will it be...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u99	We did not discuss this at the committee meeting. Maybe the Minister has some information. I have not heard of this tax being reduced in 2016. But this... [[It's an important issue, that's why I asked. I'm so sorry.]] The percentage of taxation does not prejudge the size of the tax burden borne by the taxpayer. Reduction of such weights may result from reliefs that will arise. Let me remind you that the Prime Minister in her exposé announced a number of facilities for taxpayers, especially those investing in... [[That was my question, Mr President.]] ...such as depreciation, etc. They may influence, in case of implementation of certain behaviours expected by the Polish State... If entrepreneurs pursue such behaviour, they will benefit from a reduction in the tax burden. So if they invest and create jobs, they will pay lower taxes, they will bear less tax burden. So I would attach more importance to the scale of taxation, not so much as to what business incentive policy will be applied so that they can develop their businesses, their business, invest. Because this activity should be supported. Lowering taxes for all just so you can spend more on caviar and champagne is not the right policy. Action to develop and reduce tax burdens for those who are active and create jobs must be supported and thus contribute to increasing budget revenue.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u100	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any questions for the rapporteur? If I can afford to do so, Mr. Senator, I would say that an interesting issue is the correlation between the tax rate and the real VAT receipts. This relationship is not linear. A few years ago, when the VAT reduction was discussed, the issue was discussed in a very broad and detailed manner. Often, in the first phase, the reduction in the rate results in a real increase in revenue and only below some threshold in real terms in the reduction of tax revenue. I'm talking about the amount that's affecting... But that's another topic at the seminar. So that I would just like to point out this issue. Does anyone else have any questions for the rapporteur? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister Majszczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In principle, the assumptions of this novel were presented by the Senator of the rapporteur of the budget committee. I would like to complete the information on this project in a few more aspects. As has already been pointed out, this amendment will result in an increase in the deficit of the state budget by PLN 3 billion 900 million compared to the original assumption resulting from the budget adopted for 2015. Indeed, the reason why this novel is presented is by more than PLN 10 billion less forecast budgetary revenue. As in the broad discussion this has already been discussed several times, the greatest shortages are estimated in terms of value added tax. In fact, expenditure will also be less expensive. They were taken into account in this novel at levels that were known at the time when this amendment was drafted and submitted by the government to Parliament. These were roadblocks, which are a reduction in expenditure, so-called natural constraints, not expenditure cuts, tasks reduction. Simply, as every year, the dispatchers reported, according to the art resulting from the provisions of the Public Finance Act, that expenditure could not be implemented at the level of PLN 6 billion 500 million. This is due to many reasons, among others. simply by achieving lower prices as a result of tenders, but also by reducing expenditure on the payment of unemployment contributions, which is the result of a fall in unemployment, in some cases also due to a shift in tasks due to prolonged procedures, such as land buy-out or the handling of various documents for planned investments, as was the case for certain investments carried out by institutions supervised by the Minister of Science. So that depending on which office, which institution it is concerned, we can multiply examples of what caused the limitations on expenditure that accounted for this amount of PLN 6.5 billion. Of course, there may be other savings in theory. Therefore, the new budget submitted to the High House also proposes such a solution that, should such savings arise, it would be possible for the Minister of Finance to set up a special reserve for the Material Reserve Agency to carry out strategic reserve tasks. The provisions contained in the text section of this novel do not oblige the Minister of Finance to set up such a reserve, they only give the possibility, because of course the decision in this regard will depend on many circumstances that may arise. Even if savings are made, if there are blockages made by individual contributors in relation to savings and the lack of spending, these savings will of course have to be affected by actual revenues that will be made in December so that it can be verified whether the creation of such a reserve is intentional, possible and ensures the correct implementation of the budget resulting from the novel, which will apply if the High House approves this amendment and is signed by the President. Tax revenues are more than PLN 10 billion lower, expenditure is also lower, but the impact of these two amounts shows that there is still less savings on the expenditure side and more shortages on the income side. This is the difference which has led to the request for this amendment for the 2015 deficit plan. The reason why such a decision has been taken is also because expenditure is an absolute limit. Similarly, the deficit of the state budget, according to the textual part of the budget, is final. Of course, in theory such savings may occur, but we cannot learn about them, for example. in January, because it may turn out that the budget deficit would be exceeded. These savings may come, but they don't have to. They depend on a number of factors. Various accounts and payments are still ongoing. If we compare the schedule of payments made by the managers over the years, not only in local governments, but also at the level of expenditure carried out directly from the state budget, we will see that very many payments are made in the fourth quarter of the year. This is due to the timetables of the accounts, due to the annual nature of the budget. It is also the same with regard to the settlement of various investments and actions carried out by individual investment managers; these budgets are often implemented in a large part only in the fourth quarter. Of course, savings can occur because the charge should be paid for the job or service actually performed. So if, for example, any investment is not actually carried out in November or December, it is the responsibility of each authorising officer not to make payments since he cannot accept the performance of the task as performed. And that's why I'm saying that these savings are theoretically possible. The expenses that were blocked were not only blocked by the authorising officers. Please also keep in mind the reserve start-up procedure. The part of this amount referred to here, as an amount that will not be spent, comes from unspent special-purpose reserves. Special provisions other than two cases We are talking here about the provision for co-financing EU expenditure and the provision for carrying out tasks related to the eradication of natural disasters or the emergence of natural disasters... These two reserves may be realised and spent by the end of the calendar year. Other special-purpose reserves shall be opened by the Minister of Finance by 15 October. And at this point in time, we know at which part of the individual reserves were not spent. Of course, the reasons for not spending these reserves will be set out in the 2015 budget implementation report, because all those entitled who could reach for these funds will send detailed explanations to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance will include them in the budget implementation report. But, of course, it is not yet possible to make such a detailed analysis. There are certain timetables according to which such reports shall be sent by individual authorising officers. Therefore, today an in-depth analysis of the structure of not making these expenditures or applying for individual measures cannot be carried out so precisely. In short, so much for the reasons and extent of this amendment presented to the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u102	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? [[I'd ask...]] You're welcome, Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u103	I'd ask about that LTE auction. If the Minister could tell us more...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u104	The auction was completed in the first half of October this year. The administrative procedure for issuing decisions on the frequency reservation is currently underway. Decisions are not yet issued, therefore measures are not planned this year. It's $9 billion, $200 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u105	Thank you very much. Questions? You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u106	Minister, I would like to ask you the same question I asked the Senator of the rapporteur. What's right... Why do we want to increase the budget deficit by nearly PLN 4 billion? This is weird for me. Perhaps the Minister will explain to me what the reasons are for increasing the budget deficit when we have recently come down from an excessive deficit and the problems that have been associated with it... The need to get out of the deficit, the difficult descent, the hard descent... Why are we now increasing, going beyond 3%, which counts for an excessive deficit?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u107	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u108	Thank you. As for the sector's deficit as a result... As I understand it, Mr. Marshal is asking for a sector deficit at this point, because 3% this is a clause of the public finance sector in its entirety, not just the state budget. This deficit can only be assessed after the end of the year, because it is not counted only in the state budget but also in the local government deficit. In fact, it will only be possible to determine the level of the deficit after the year has been closed. However, we believe that if nothing changes in relation to what we have estimated, on the local government side or on the side of other institutions, insurance institutions, which are also taken into account in calculating the deficit mentioned above, we may temporarily exceed 3% in 2015 as explained in the explanatory memorandum. Except that it will be a temporary, incidental overrun, in line with the current 2016 budget of the Council of Ministers. I say 'Proceeded' because it is not yet accepted, but it has already been pre-examined in the Council of Ministers. And the deficit of the public finance sector at the end of 2016 is estimated at 2.8% GDP, i.e. at the level at which it was estimated earlier, when the first draft budget law was drawn up, in September. This sector deficit is not increased in 2016. As far as the budget deficit itself is concerned, which, as I said, is only part of this deficit, I have just presented the reasons why it is being raised. It is not certain that the savings on the expenditure side will be made in such a size, and the lack of this certainty cannot lead to an overrun of the deficit, which is directly apparent from the budget law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u109	Thank you very much. Questions, please. Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u110	Minister, you say that this deficit, the government deficit, will decrease to 2,8% by the end of 2016. And please tell me what your intentions are with regard to the implementation of the electoral announcements of Law and Justice, from your point of view, as Deputy Minister of Finance. Because next year they're gonna start making payments for 500 PLN per child, from the second or third child, I don't know exactly, and there's a few other proposals you've heard about. Are they taken into account? And are the Ministry of Finance working on this subject?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u111	Thank you. I remind you that we are now asking questions about this item on the agenda. But, as I understand it, the Minister will answer the question asked. [[But, Mr. Marshal, this is a budget question. I understand that because it's about next year, you think the question goes beyond...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u112	Mr Marshals, the budget will be presented, as I think, publicly and sent to Parliament certainly next week, at least this is our predictions, from the finance department. And there will be the above-mentioned assumptions. It is certainly assumed that this program will include 500 PLN per child. In turn, other works... At this point in time, I am unable to address this, nor am I empowered to comment on the work and preparation of the remaining reforms notified during the exposé by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u113	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Blackbay a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u114	Minister, if you don't mind... I have already asked this question at the committee's meeting, but since some people were not at the committee's meeting, I would like to repeat: could you give the Minister a closer look at the issue of non-performance of income of 13 billion VAT? Yeah, ten-thirty-three billion. I mean this, Minister: could you give us a closer look at what concerns the most important points, and for what reason has this not been achieved? And, secondly, it's what Senator Bierecki was talking about: whether the creation of budget volumes on the revenue side was the joyful work of the Ministry of Finance, or if you hadn't predicted any phenomena, etc.? That's one question. And if so, what is it? And the second question that relates to public debt. If the Minister could answer... And if you don't, it's either in writing or by the way. What is our structure today? I ask here only two figures for financing public debt in terms of: domestic and foreign? So how much of this debt is in the foreign part, and what does it refer to national units?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u115	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u116	Thank you very much. The failure, the estimated failure to implement the revenue from the tax on goods and services, has, as the rapporteur has already pointed out, had a number of reasons. First of all, there is an indirect tax, which is also very high... i.e. the possibility of it being realized at certain altitudes is also related to what is happening when it comes to macro conditions, i.e. above all, inflation. The level of inflation planned for 2015 was 1.2%. , but we already know that this is a deflation period, and even if that is one of the reasons and to some extent translates into the possibility to implement the revenue assumed in the budget. Besides, we have a number of simplifications that the senator also mentioned, which have shifted revenue. For example, it is possible to settle the tax in a declaration instead of, as it was before, paying it in connection with import and only after some time I say it this way in some simplification of the deduction of it in the billing documents, which has also affected that these receipts of the budget are lower than they originally could be estimated. So these simplifications have affected the shifting of these revenues over time. There is also a question of the tax base. Please note that each budget is prepared around the end of the second quarter, i.e. in August, it is adopted in September, and if you take this into account later, at the end of the year, it is not always what you can predict when the budget is being submitted. So there is a certain underestimation of the base, i.e. the closure of 2014, and this also affects the failure to implement in 2015 the budget and revenue from the tax on goods and services. And, of course, there's a question of retrievability, emerging abuse, lack of possibility to enforce quotas or... But this is not a phenomenon typical only for Poland, because the tax on goods and services has such a specificity that the phenomenon of extortion of tax on goods and services is practically common in the countries that apply it, i.e. throughout the European Union. Here, of course, this gap in the tax on goods and services, unrealized... Well, there are different institutions that make different estimates about this size. But it's hard to judge because there are different methods here. This is a statistical meter that doesn't have any hard evidence in fact, because it's based on certain assumptions. For example, the latest estimates of the various institutions of the European Union indicated about PLN 40 billion. It is also worth noting that there is not really a country in the European Union where such a tax gap does not exist. But I am not talking about a gap of this size, because they are of course different from the one in Poland, and they are also higher in some countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u117	Thank you very much. The question is, Senator Rulewski... [[I'm still...]] Complement? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u118	Minister, I asked you about this structure. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Ah, excuse me.]] If there's an answer, please, and if there isn't, then by the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u119	1/3 of foreign currency debt. [[And 2/3 is in Polish?]] Yeah, in Polish.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u120	Thank you very much. [[What are they gonna do about it?]] Senator Rulewski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! Minister! During the committee's work, I learned that the funds earmarked for the implementation of the anti-communist opposition law adopted by the entire Senate, whose sentence almost 100 percent divided the Sejm, were not used. Of the 25 million zlotys dedicated to social assistance for the opposition, only 230 thousand were spent. I think your resort, but especially yours, has been involved in blocking these amounts at 1.5 million. The Minister also practiced a kind of moral diversion towards opposition groups, writing various letters to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy about the alleged robbery of billions of zlotys by the anti-communist opposition. Would you like to take responsibility for causing this diversion to the patriots of the Third Republic?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u122	I would just like to remind you that we are asking questions about the committee meeting and this point. [[Why wasn't this money spent?]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u123	I'm asking the senator to ask this at the Veterans' Office because they're responsible for their spending. And the writings you mention, sir, I don't know. If the senator sends me the letters in which I wrote these things, I'd be happy to comment on them.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u124	Thank you very much. Do any of you have any questions for a government representative? I don't see any volunteers. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to remind you that in discussions on amending the budget law, senators are not allowed to submit requests for rejection. You're welcome, Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The whole issue needs to be carefully analysed in order to get to the core of the problem. As far as dry indicators are concerned, above all those that talk about the ratio of the government budget deficit or the whole public finance sector to gross domestic product, these indicators do not actually launch in particular, but rather should not be of particular concern. Also with regard to the excessive deficit procedure, at least these assumptions do not indicate that it should be resumed, although, of course, over 3%, the situation in which it came below is always a concern. The problem, in my opinion, is something else, namely that the Government of Law and Justice is moving away from a legitimate, legitimate idea of healing public finances. There's been a lot of talk about debt, about its size, about its structure. I'll start with the size. This debt has actually grown quite quickly over the last seven years or six years. It grew quite quickly because the deficit of the public finance sector, but before all, the deficit of the state budget, although the local authorities also applied there, was also significant, at some point it approached up to 8% GDP. But why? Was this the result of any disrespectful attitude towards financial matters? No. Our discussions have repeatedly forgotten that a very serious crisis hit the entire world economy in 2008. This crisis is still going on for a good cause today. Maybe not on this scale, and maybe not with that kind of force, but it's going on. This crisis has caused budget deficits to rise in different countries. This was because banks were rescued, although only in some cases. In most cases, this was done because they tried to save demand, which had been severely weakened, and they tried to save investments. So, in short, unemployment has been fought against rising unemployment. And it's normal practice in situations like this. The budget deficit is not sacred It should be quite flexible, but, of course, within certain limits. Poland was in a similar situation. Why was Poland the leader in economic growth at this time? Well, it took place at a certain cost. This cost was the increase in the budget deficit and the increase in public debt, although this public debt is far less than in many other countries. This is the first case. Let us not criticize that policy because that policy saved us from high unemployment, from a major decline in economic activity and from, notabene, even greater immigration abroad. For some time now, let's say, for a year and a half, it's been going on. In fact, it's been two years. The opposite trend: as the situation was improving, the deficit started to be reduced. And so we gradually descended below 3% It's a great success. What was the assumption? The assumption was to reach a deficit of 1% in the public finance sector within a few years. GDP. What's that 1%? Did GDP give us? He gave us this... This isn't about some doctrine. It gave us that if there was a crisis again And such crises happen every once in a while, especially in today's troubled world. The increase in the budget deficit in order to save demand will be smooth. 3 percentage points out of 1% That's only 4%. GDP, but from 3 points or 3.5 points it's already jumping again to 7.8% ...It was the right thing to do, but at the moment he was inhibited, and unfortunately even slightly inverted. And that's the main problem. Now the word for the amendment itself. Nevertheless, Minister, it is not understandable why if the deficit after 10 months is 5 billion less than the planned deficit, and after 11 months it is 10 billion less than the planned deficit, we must increase the deficit at the end of the year. Well, to be honest, there's no explanation... In fact, the only explanation would be that, in December, income is falling rapidly in comparison to this drop that took place... [[They're breaking down.]] ...or there's a sharp increase in spending. The average cost of the plan is about 28 billion a month. So the average monthly expense is 28 billion. If the deficit at the end of November is 10 billion less than planned, and at the end of the year it's going to be 4 billion higher, that means we have an expenditure explosion of 14 billion... [[By the end of the year.]] That's 28 on average... So December spending is going to be 50% higher than average monthly expenditure. Well, as far as I can remember... I was the finance minister a long time ago, so a few things might have changed, but I've been following these things a little bit. December expenditure may be higher than the average by approximately 1/4. But to make it 50%? I don't think that's happened. And in this case, we just need an explanation. The decline in revenue in this scale in one month is not realistic at all. So, ladies and gentlemen, I know so much about the budgetary economy, although, of course, not as much as the professionals in this matter, that I know that there are various possibilities for creating financial cushions, which can then be used next year. Therefore, in conclusion, I will say that the situation is as follows. If nothing were to be done, not to be updated, etc., it would be expected that the deficit would be lower than planned. I don't know if it's $10 billion, maybe $6 billion, and maybe $40 billion. Next year it should not be much higher, it should amount to PLN 43.44 billion if we keep the same percentage of GDP deficit. That together makes about 84 billion zlotys. What's it gonna be? In fact, there will be 50 billion zlotys this year and probably 55 billion or 54 billion next year... no, 55 billion, that is to say 105 billion zlotys together. Please calculate the difference. That's 22 billion zlotys. So we just increase the debt by 22 billion zlotys. That's not enough, as a result of the election promises. "Whether it's right or wrong, we're still going to discuss it." We just finance it out of debt, we just finance it out of debt. Ladies and gentlemen, all I'm going to say is that the electoral promises to be financed by savings were to be financed by better downloadability. 'Cause that's what we heard. It will be financed by debt. It is no art to make promises about spending money on behalf of citizens if they are financed by debt. It can do any party, no problem with that. It's just that responsible parties just don't do it, that's all. Finally, I will refer to the thesis that Senator Bierecki stressed, namely that public debt should be more financed by national savings. Well, we've already learned it's not so bad: 2/3 are financed by national savings and 1/3 by foreign funds. Only, Mr. Senator, savings are for something, they should be for investment. If the national entities, whether the banks that lend, whether the companies that have the money set aside start financing the public debt, we will not have any investment and we will not have the credit. When there's a lot of money, you're welcome, then it's just like Japan. And don't give the Greek example, because the Greeks made the debt to GDP 180%. Even if this debt had been financed by the Greeks, the Greeks would have suffered the consequences, they would have been poor, naked and barefoot, which at the moment threatens them, whether it was a domestic debt or a foreign debt. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u126	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u127	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I too, to tell you the truth, see no economic justification in these speeches and the Senator rapporteur and the Minister. I think we're dealing with something else that my previous speaker, Senator Marek Borowski, told us about. In addition to his comments, when you look at the budget, you can see that I calculated it so quickly. In terms of revenue, it is achieved by October in 80%, but it is also realized between January and October 79% expenditure. I don't see any reason why a budget could and would have to be revised. There are 11 billion zlotys left to use, and what could happen in the last 2 months that these 11 billion zlotys of deficit, which is more notabene, but supposed to be 11 billion zlotys, should be increased? We said here that we have a VAT discount. But we also have pros. These result from CIT tax, for example, is 600 million PLN from PIT tax, is 1.1 billion PLN from CIT, is 1.7 billion PLN in income from non-tax sources. So what's the economic justification here, I really don't know. Unless it's about promises and today's blame on the previous government, increasing the deficit, so that later, in 2016, this deficit is phenomenally much, much smaller, and the promises have been fulfilled. 13 billion PLN VAT loss is a huge sum. I'm really thinking about how we might be planning, and it doesn't have an impact. 13 billion zlotys is the amount for which someone should answer, why he did not appreciate it, why it happened that this amount was missing. I am also surprised that for the first time the auction for the frequency of LTE was decided at an enormous amount of PLN 9 billion 200 million and since October And it's already December. The procedures relating to the signing of contracts or other things are still underway today, and this money has not been received and implemented or not in this year's budget. Of course, they will surely be in the 2016 budget and 9 billion zlotys are an enormous amount. And finally, the conclusion of Senator Bierecki's words. You were talking about bonds and 11%. I haven't seen that kind of percentage unless it's a three-year period. Because recently, what we see on the stock market is a mass sale of Polish bonds connected with signals that reach Western investors, and a very large decline in profitability; I am talking about the bonds themselves, because this topic was discussed. Therefore, I would like to conclude by saying that I do not think that we should vote in favour I won't vote in favour. This amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u128	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, it can be said that what Senator Borowski and Senator Dowhan have said covers everything I've wanted to say. Therefore, I will shorten my speech so as not to repeat the things that are related to science, Senator, about which you I'm addressing Senator Bierecki. He knows very well. The numbers are a certain value, that can be estimated, or you can actually be sure of what will happen when there is a number value. And you can whisper reality, you can say that you've juggled, you haven't foreseen, and you haven't even used the other terms you used in your previous term, and you're still using the momentum. But I would also like to say that all the time this human question is born to anyone who has ever managed any amount of money, whether it's at home or not. Although as soon as the wife manages and someone doesn't manage, she doesn't have a clue either. Is it in local governments or in the country: why this correction, increase the deficit? Senator Borowski showed it fantastically on the numbers, so I'm not going to repeat it. And this is normal: you want to implement your electoral programme. Not only do you have the right to do this, but you have an obligation to do it. This is a normal case, you have won, you have made a program and implementation offer to Poles, which the Poles have created. And now don't be afraid to tell me what you're gonna finance her with. Well, it is clear that you will finance it from what is associated with an increase in public debt in Poland. And these are things you have to call by name. You can give examples of Italians, Greeks, French, etc. And I want to say It's a shame your professor's not here, but Senator Bierecki will say it again. I read what concerns the structure of the public debt and the efficiency of the Italian economy. And I want to say, as the classic used to say, Mr. Senator, let's not go this way. As for the structure of Polish public debt, as the Minister said, it is from 25.6% probably in 2007 or 2008 to around 32.5% Now... so there is no situation here that the cause of evil, the cause of all that is connected with public debt, is that part of the bonds have the mark of foreign bonds. It's just... We spend more than we produce in this country. And as Senator Borowski said, it has always been, and unfortunately, Or stetha, it will be. The 1% level is important. But this is a dream, so let's say that 3%... about this issue is an important thing. And if it adds up to that, I'm almost done. What the previous speakers have said is that the essence of your change, good change, changes for the better, that is, what is related to the emerging surplus of money for 2015, this is still an amendment that entitles us to send this money to the Material Reserve Agency. And as the Minister said, it is not an axiom that the surplus will be directed there, but it creates the possibility that for the second time this coal can be purchased by the Material Reserve Agency, it can also be directed to other purposes. So if that's the intention, then I don't criticize them. I'm not criticizing them yet. But what I'm trying to say is, if that's the intention, you call it by name: we're increasing the free money pool at the end of 2015 to carry out the election program in such a form. That's what Senator Borowski was calculating. We'll send part of the money to the Material Reserve Agency, etc. So do not talk about the reduction in income, and therefore, as Senator Bierecki said, there is a need to increase them in order to probably accomplish all the tasks. Senator Dowhan said about the needs, and he also showed the figures, which also show, as in science, that the budget on the expenditure side will be implemented at the level of And this is where I'm gonna shoot. 85 per cent up to 86%, and at the same level will be achieved on the revenue side. Therefore, there is no need to correct this budget from the 2015 budget point of view. And don't make this a philosophy, just say, we need the budget money, we need the new ones to be printed so that we can fulfill our electoral promises. Glory be to you for your desire to accomplish it. It is a pity that you want to implement them at the expense of the future of the Polish economy, Polish families and Polish taxpayers. Because, Senator, foreign bonds can and do come from foreign sources... And you want to take it first. Out of our pockets to finance the election program. And that is why, as Senator Dowhan also said, despite my sympathy, I will not vote in favour of the amendment... [[Voice from the room: It's a shame.]] ...related to increasing the burden that there is no need for beyond the implementation of the electoral programme. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u130	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Mr. Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! To be honest, Senator Marek Borowski has provoked me to speak. I don't know if he's here. I don't think there's a senator here. [[Voice from the room: I don't think so.]] [[Voice from the room: We will pass it on.]] [[Voice from the room: He's probably listening.]] ...because here there's some sort of charge that Law and Justice is already trying to do some budgetary tricks to do that. And then, in the speeches of the next speakers, this charge also appeared. To fulfill our electoral promises. Yes, Ladies and Gentlemen, the Law and Justice want to fulfill their electoral promises. We want to give 500 PLN per child. And this is the electoral promise, which, after all, will be very strong in terms of demand, as Mr Marek Borowski said, as part of the fight against the crisis. As for our second election promise, which is to increase the tax-free amount, I would remind you The State defends the Constitutional Court, that this is the implementation of the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which we, the Law and Justice, will have to take and which exactly coincides with our election promise. At some point, Senator Borowski said that we wanted to keep our promises from debt. If there is a budget deficit, then of course something in some minimum percentage will definitely be implemented with this debt. You can say that every expense will be made out of debt until we balance the budget, so it's not an exploratory statement. I don't want to go into such a harsh argument, but I think the budget As one of the senators said here, not all the names I remember They're numbers. Right. Ladies and gentlemen, 8 years of government of the Civic Platform is an increase in debt by PLN 400 billion, i.e. About 11 thousand zlotys per worker. These are facts. Where was Mr Marek Borowski, where were the Senators of the Civic Platform, when this debt of Poland grew so much every year? Ladies and gentlemen, keep a certain proportion. We're talking about a budget with increased VAT, freezing tax thresholds, increased excise duty, taking 150 billion from the OFE. And the debt has been increased by 400 billion over the last eight years. And the promises of Law and Justice will not only be implemented out of debt, as the senator said, because there will also be some solutions that will increase the revenue of the budget. After all, we have to whether or not we're going to introduce a bank tax. Yes? These are the next billions that will be in the budget next year. There's gonna be a tax on these stores. I know that there is still a consultation in the government in what form this tax is to be introduced. So it's not just expenses, it's revenue. So much for what Senator Borowski said and what some of his fellow senators said. Just a few more words about this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, 13 billion PLN. He missed the finance minister, planning this year's budget, VAT receipts. 13 billion. Here one of the senators calculated that there would be more CIT, 1.7... 1.1 billion, 1.7 on non-tax revenues. But that's what I'm gonna say... I don't mean to say that these are pennies, but with the 13 billion missing from VAT receipts... It's a giant amount. I agree that someone should ask: how could you shoot the budget like that? It is known that it is difficult to plan in January or December That's accurate, I don't know, up to 100 million zlotys with that kind of money, but a 13 billion mistake is not such a mistake... The question is, is this a mistake, that's what I'd say? Mr. Minister of Finance's mistake, whether it was in advance so much revenue as to make the posts agree. As far as the LTE frequency is concerned, you know that there were powerful legal doubts. I do not know at what stage this issue is at, I do not know how they will be resolved, but it was also for the governments who took part in the competition that these doubts raised. So it's worth considering this change in this year's budget, and seeing this story, and not just saying... After all, we are in charge, Minister Shamacha has been Minister for a few weeks, and he needs to sort these things out. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u132	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have learned a lot of new things during this debate, but the most important thing that we have learned is that human memory is short, and vision is failing with age. The memory is short, because when it comes to the 2015 budget, when it was adopted in this Chamber, all that is now the reason for the necessary correction, after all we raised The fact that these revenues appear to be overestimated is that this budget is too optimistic. After all, we talked about all this and it turned out that unfortunately we were right. I don't know if the Platform and PSL government predicted that they would give up power in October, that they would lose the election and decide to plant a government, a future government, as far as the state budget, a rat... a pardon, I'm sorry, a rat, because this deficit is so small... [[But it worked.]] But it can be improved. Rat found... found, corrected. So much for short memory. Now a few words about the lack of good eyesight. Well, with some stubbornness, gentlemen, the senators here didn't notice those over 13 billion holes in the budget. They showed us... it reminds me of the last time a plumber was fixing my house, said everything was fine, but there's got to be a lower pressure in the pipes, and then there's going to be a smaller leak. Fantastic. This is the way of thinking, which you have shown here, that if there is lower pressure, it will be less leakage, if there are lower expenditures, then the deficit will be smaller. It's true, of course it's true. But what does this truth mean for this budget presentation? It's gotta be improved. We are simply dealing with a budget that was too optimisticly constructed, it was made for the purpose of an election campaign, which has been constantly going on in our country throughout the last year. After all, this budget was part of President Komorowski's campaign and then the campaign of the Civic Platform and its allies. And this budget was designed for this campaign. Now that the election is over, we need to sort it out, clean it up after you and make a real budget, a budget that really doesn't have that campaign revenue. Senator Borowski was talking about financing promises with debt. The Law and Justice Government announces a higher tax collection rate, an improvement in the level of collection. That's one thing. Secondly, it also announces the introduction of taxation on the income of banks and large-scale shops, i.e. new revenues will emerge. Expenditure that is planned and which is part of the programme will be implemented in 2015. Senator Borowski knows very well that the improvement of collection occurs in time; and here we are dealing only with the issue of money flows. So the right resources to finance these promises, Mr. Senator, aren't there anything you'd like to say. In increased debt, they are in those future income that will be achieved as a result of collection, increased collection and due to the new taxes that will affect those who made a great profit in Poland. The banking sector certainly has something to share with the public, and I hope that this banking tax will be adopted quickly, so that these budgetary revenues will be made quickly. So when it comes to flows, you're partly right. Deficit appears and you need to find money today, but covering this deficit is guaranteed, is assured and knows what and when it will happen. Finally, Senator Dowhan, who made me feel like an entrepreneur, decided that he wanted this debate to forget the difference between the interest rate and the bond return. Mr. Senator, I was talking about outstanding bond yields, not interest rates. I wanted to draw your attention to this matter from a pure friendship. [[It's the same thing.]] It doesn't look like one. [[Almost.]] Mr. Senator, if you're confusing profitability with interest rates, I wish you success in business. In short. Ladies and gentlemen, so I would like to appeal to the High House for adoption without any amendments to the bill on amending the budget law. This law meets the expectations of stable state finances. This law improves and eliminates the propaganda of success contained unnecessarily in the document called the State Budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u134	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Władysław Bartoszewski worked in this House years ago. He said he was opposed to futility. I am convinced that the action related to the amendment of the 2015 budget law at the end of the year, just a few days before the new year's budget starts to apply, is an example of such unnecessary work to which a huge number of officials in the Ministry of Finance have been involved, and probably also the services of the Ministry of Finance, have been involved Members, Senators, Committees. Especially for this reason, we, and the Members, would come together only to make sure that, at the beginning of next year, there was no additional deficit. implemented and that the State's debt in 2015 was indeed less than planned in the 2015 Budget Act. Why would you do that? Wouldn't it be better at this time to prepare for the big projects you are talking about, the 500 PLN, the tax-free amount and many, many other things that require reliable, solid preparation? It could have been done faster, better, and maybe there'd be something we'd all be proud of. Oh, yeah, we're trying to wage a war with the government that's gone, with the parliament, with the coalition that lost the election, for no reason at all. No need at all, because this budget was really, contrary to appearances, well prepared. It's true, of course there are smaller VAT receipts, no one's denying that, we knew that, but no one Neither Mr President nor any of the senators will point out that the budget you are currently changing has been made for elections. Even at the committee meeting we spoke and pointed out that funds of more than PLN 6 billion were blocked, which were not used in the past year. If we were to make this budget as an electoral budget, these amounts would be spent to win the next election. No, we didn't make the budget with the idea that it was supposed to be part of the election campaign. It was done rationally. I'd like to, and I'm dreaming that every time it's like this, it's not gonna be a budget change just to achieve a better political effect. Even for a moment, I naively thought that maybe some rational goals were directed by our friends from Law and Justice, but at the committee meeting, when Senator Bierecki said that the amendment may not be necessary, but it was necessary, and then he confirmed it in response to my question, I found that basically the only argument for making an amendment a few days before the end of the year was only political motives and considerations. Politics is probably everything in parliament. But it's just to say how great and good and wonderful we are. And now Senator Frost has pointed out that over the eight years of government, the deficit in the public finance sector has increased by PLN 400 billion. Of course, I'm not happy about it. Each time, in every debate on the budget, I asked how much it was possible to reduce this year's budget deficit. We didn't always do it, and we didn't always do it the way we wanted it to. But now the senator draws attention to it and considers it a critical condition for assessing the work of the Civic Platform over the course of eight years. You could say it's right, because it shouldn't be. But if the senator is so smart, why not say: we will reduce this budget deficit, we will reduce it, we will consider how we can reduce expenditure, even before the end of this year, within this budget? However, this proposal provides for an increase in expenditure, fortunately only by PLN 3.9 billion, and not by PLN 10 billion, as the current finance minister said initially. Or would it be worth looking for where else to rationalize expenses, even by the end of the year? Meanwhile, we say: we spend more, we add more money, we borrow it, that is, we increase this deficit in the public finance sector, so we exactly deny ourselves. We'll see what happens next year. I would like you to show that you really want to rationalise public spending, but for now all of your announcements are not optimistic, they raise more doubts than hopes. But we'll see. Let's hope this budget you're preparing is good. I wish it were, and I hope it is. If you can do it, we'll be happy, but for now, everything you're doing. Also, this game of amending the 2015 budget shows that you are doing exactly the opposite. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[We can do this.]] [[We'll be fine. Just don't bother us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u136	Thank you very much. High Izbo, I would like to comment on Senator Dowhan's statement and thank him for bringing up the issue of the LTE auction in our session. It is a fact that the money from this auction has not yet entered the budget. This subject was widely discussed at one of the last meetings of the Committee on Culture and Media, which I chaired in the previous term, and I would like to give you a brief telegraph overview of the history of this auction this year. It was announced with a very long delay, and in the context of this auction 5 broadband operators were to be selected, so-called. LTE. At the very beginning, the structure of this auction was badly designed, so that it could not be specified when it would end. And perhaps that is why Minister Halicki decided to issue a regulation on the completion of this auction within a period of several days. As a result, the auction has been completed, the frequency award procedure is currently underway, but the problem is that the regulation of the Minister of Halicki, according to experts, was illegal and therefore one of the operators recently applied to the arbitration tribunal in Paris for compensation of EUR 500 million. From the information I have, it appears that another operator is preparing such a proposal and yet another one is preparing for such a request. So on the one hand, we're dealing with the end of the auction and the planned influences... I might be wrong... The Minister gave the amount of PLN 9.2 billion, I remembered the amount of PLN 8.2 billion. But I am now overlooking this issue. The question is whether the operators will comply with the amounts declared in the auction and whether that amount will be paid. The auction was designed so that there was no chance of ending it and budget revenues, Mr. Senator, this year. There was no possibility of that. And Minister Halicki's regulation poses a risk. I mark: the risk of gigantic damages. And I think the ministry will have a very complicated puzzle. Because from one throne he can count on the influence at that height, but on the other hand we must, or the ministry must, take into account the consequences of the claims that are currently being made. And if it were to happen that we would have to pay several billion PLN compensations for 2 or 3 years, then the revenues from the above auction in the longer term would have to be seen as the difference between the influences that will actually be high next year and the possible compensation resulting from the regulation of Minister Halicki. If such compensation is paid, the Minister will personally be responsible. And I want that statement to come out of this podium. Because before the regulation in question came into force, we warned my committee about the consequences. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u137	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. And please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski. Second performance. [[As part of the replica, yes.]] Second appearance, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u138	Yes, sir. I would like to remind you of two points that I have raised and to which neither Senator Frost nor Senator Bierecki has responded. The first thing is, we're getting off the deficit reduction path. I'm not saying that we're going on the path of raising the deficit, but we're going to raise it. You're saying that once, but that means a change of trend. And such a change in trend also has consequences on the financial markets. It's just that investors don't really know what the future policy is going to be. Because the earlier one was denied. I think it's a mistake. And that it's dangerous. I will say more: this solution was not necessary because this year's results do not force it. And here's the second question, the question that keeps going. here he repeats: why, if at the end of November the deficit is less than 10 billion PLN, then the final deficit needs to be increased by almost 4 billion PLN? What expenses, so great, will be incurred in December? Or, why is there going to be such a huge drop in income in December? I was hoping that Senator Bierecki, as chairman of the committee, would ask for an answer to this question and give us an explanation here. He didn't give such explanations, he just said diplomatically, with certain that I would say so, with linguistical problems, that there is no need, but there is a need. Well, thank you very much, that answer explains a lot. And finally, about Senator Mr. Frost's statement, who raised the debt issue again... After all, I will not defend every expense and every pull of the Civic Platform in eight years, because there is no government that does everything right. I just pointed out that if you want to fight the crisis, fight the rise in unemployment, which in Poland has worked to a large extent, in any case compared to other countries, then something pays for it all. Among other things, there is an increase in the deficit, an increase in debt. It's just that all this stuff I'm talking about is the amount of debt that was still within the bounds of decency. And one more thing. If we are talking about the debt of the public sector, the public finance sector, and this is what we are talking about here, let us remember that this also applies to local governments. Those self-governments that had an investment with European funds and had to add their own money... At the time of the crisis, their tax revenues dropped, but the investments had to continue. And they were in debt. This is no longer a matter of government policy. Right? This is a certain inevitable consequence. So... these first two issues are crucial. And finally, to Senator Kleina... Mr. Senator said, well, we're gonna end the year with a smaller deficit. Well, Mr. Senator, not necessarily. There are two possibilities... I just don't really know what it's done for. I don't suspect Mr. Shamacha's lack of competence, because if I suspected him, I would risk today's thesis that in a month's time we'll find out that the deficit wasn't 50 billion, only 40. I suspect there's some kind of pillow in there that I'm going to say is a pillow that serves as a means of transferring certain money to a year in one way or another. Cover some commitments faster so you don't cover them next year and so on... If this happens, the deficit will be made every penny. I only suggest that we then, when we are next year, ask for detailed information on what was going on in December, what was the income of December, what was the expenditure for, what was the expenditure for, etc. And then we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u139	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! Tall Izbo! Mr. Marshal Borowski has already left, and I just wanted to say a word about this financial pillow. In a few moments, we're gonna be looking at a law on changes in the way we can pass on to the agency at the end of the year, even without the committee's opinion, everything that's gonna be free... It can simply be said that all the measures that will be free in the sense of State budget resources, including the deficit, will be passed on to you, I suspect. Within this financial cushion, as Senator Borowski said, to the Material Reserve Agency. Why? That's more or less what we can say to each other. Mr. Marshal! Tall Izbo! Just a few words about what Senator Bierecki was talking about. Mr. Senator, short memory, poor eyesight... I'd like to add to that, but less maliciously, what is associated with the word logic... We're not here to bake, we're here to talk about certain things as honestly as we can in politics. That joke, that rat joke, and that Rat Rat that you were kind enough to say from that tribune... I don't think that's right in this House. Well, maybe in the Seym, but not really. Perhaps you could find a different place from where you're staying to sell that joke there. Moving on to the point... We're about to talk about how we can react in situations of deflation. It's hard to imagine, Mr. Senator, High Izbo, that this is the Ministry of Finance who knew exactly that in 2015 there would be a deflation. The lesson from this is that... an amendment has been proposed, which we will be talking about in a moment. We assume inflation will be 1.7 next year, if I remember correctly. Therefore, a certain amount of tax-related money will be affected. Let's assume, God forbid, there's going to be a deflation. It also has positive influence on price formation in Poland. For the government to be able to react... Then he won't fully realize his income, but in 2016 he can react in connection with deflation, because if there's no inflation... Therefore, this was one of the main elements concerning the non-implementation of VAT revenues. Plus putting off payments that are gonna come in one day... They are spread over time; they did not arrive in 2015. We have adopted this as export support. And now a word on the issue of cheatability. If we want to pursue the electoral programme, which is an advantage, at the expense of increasing the downloadability, then we have to say: bravo. What I'm trying to say, Senator, is that in 2011, this gap was 2.9%. Of course, that's the estimate level. And in 2014 it was 2.5%. We're not the leader here because other countries like Slovakia are leading... However, I would like to say that if the collection was the same as in 2007, when the PiS implemented the budget, we would have had 30 billion higher revenues. And if you manage to increase your income by increasing tax collection and implementing the electoral programme for resources from increased collection under the existing tax system, then okay. But today you want to do this by increasing the deficit Although slight, and thank God, that slightly in the course of this trend, which you spoke of by Marshal Borowski, i.e. not reducing, but increasing the deficit due to the financing of projects. As for what Senator Frost said and what Mr Marek Borowski has already said in part... Mr. Senator, if you look at the structure... Of course, it would be best if we were a wealthy country so that we didn't have to increase the debt by that 400 billion. That would be the best. But of these two elements, the fight against unemployment, economic development, but above all... As I recall, at one of the meetings, the Ministry of Finance informed us that half of this amount was an own contribution when it came to EU money. So this is a pro-development system. And one last thing, Mr. Senator. If we looked at our situation in terms of increasing the deficit, the percentage of GDP deficit, etc., development, against the background of the situation in other European countries, well, let's not argue, we were one of the leaders when it came to Europe. And that's why I want us to criticize what should be criticized, but we've kept some objectivity about numbers. I know that in political interpretation they may have different meanings, but it is important that we look at this objectively. And please don't tell us and don't believe that the government has money and will give it. I want to quote here the words of Margaret Thatcher, who once said that the government, who says that it has money and gives it, lies because it's your money that we have to take away from you to give you. And I would like those words that Margaret Thatcher spoke to people who want to increase their spending by increasing their deficit, to be treated as an axiom in their actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u141	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think it's okay, because the silence of most people here in the Senate... The set of these three laws is a prelude to the next budget law, and there is basically agreement that it is to prepare a budget position that will be even more torn than what yesterday's opposition said was in the previous time... Indeed, the promises made ad hoc, I would say, by people who are closer to illusion than economic reality, pose a serious threat not only to the state budget but also to its security as a social peace. And it is almost the eve of this action that has to be predicted. But before we talk about the consequences, I think there will still be time for this, unless the debate is held at night and under the conditions of the assassination of senate procedures, which has also happened now... It's worth giving the truth what's rightfully her... And the truth is, in this Chamber or in general in Parliament, but also in the public narrative, that I am going to define it in such a way, in terms of budget matters, and in particular in the analysis of tax revenue, it was not given the right rank. The influences of Ms Majszczyk are here, it can be confirmed that they were such an accident, that is, when it comes out, it will come out, and the most important subject of the debate has always been expenditure. And there is no denying that the Civic Platform, on the basis of different criteria, rightly assumed that these expenses should be as small as possible, as I would say at the end. Unfortunately, such a policy, unsymmetrical, like any such policy, has lost its driving wheel. The idea that economic growth can be based on a corrupt half economy, on economic links, did not work out. The belief that labour costs can be reduced by not paying social benefits, the belief that you can turn a blind eye to the low downloadability of VAT, the creation of various types of bush companies, and even the fact that 3/4 people do not pay a radio-television subscription finally obtained a negative assessment and fortunately ends their course. There are countries, and this is probably the case for Germany, where the debate on expenditure is accompanied by a symmetrical debate on impacts, examination of causes and circumstances. VAT is the essence of these solutions today. He is indeed demonstrating the greatest failure of the Polish state, to which the European Union pointed out three years ago. In my opinion, mistreated VAT tends to get started, so to speak, in a negative direction, which is the greater the sales, the smaller the proceeds. No one can understand that. Neither did the European Union. I don't understand, either, but I do know that the non-chalance of governments in the field of tax policy has actually exceeded, I would say, the limits of normality. And that's what happened in VAT. At the same time, the expenses were strangled with what I had already accused Minister Majszczyk, because she was the apostle of this philosophy: we will not give a penny to the patriots. Why? Because they want to blow up the budget because they want $7 billion. And how much was spent? $230,000. But at that time no one asked why it did not affect 13 billion of VAT, PIT and CIT. Nobody asked that question, didn't treat him with equal weight. But I'm interested in getting government ideas, 'cause these are some of the ideas of the P.I.S. practically every group was generously given in the election campaign. Yes, sir. It's not just for the minister, for the government, it's for the public. But this budget can't just consist of zeros, it has to have pros. And undoubtedly this plus is the need to increase family benefits. This advantage is, of course, finally the question raised by the PO-V Court about the tax threshold. There are also 2 rulings by the Court that their guardians should be restored to their legitimate rights in terms of care benefits. Yeah, I'm genuinely interested in that. But, Mr. Senator Bierecki, I think you... It was Senator Frost who used such a thesis, such an economy of perpetuum mobile in the third degree. The Lord says so. But it is unfortunately also your prime minister who tells us that we will give people money, they will buy goods and the economy will rush. That was the case with PiS and PO. Money was given away, but after two years it was no longer known as what to give away, and even more so. 'Cause if you give a dollar to a poor woman with two kids, she'll go back to the 30 gr budget. But where will you find cover for this 70 gr? And if you do that every year, the deficit will rise. What do I want to prove in this example? And what do I want to warn the government about? The government whose passwords... I repeat, I would like some of his passwords to be mine. And they were. I want to prove that just in your actions, including this budget, there are no growth instruments. Because it doesn't matter whether the thief buys the buns or the poor woman with two or three children buys it for the budget and the power of the gold. The proceeds will be the same. The budget, the country's economic policy needs instruments. And I ask you: what growth instruments do you have to make every dollar put into the economy brings 70 gr, or 1 PLN 70 gr, on which the tax would continue to grow? You don't have such instruments of growth, which is why I think you're going through with empty laughter over people's concerns. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u143	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u144	Thank you very much. I'll try to use even less time. Two important issues that should be clearly corrected here. Senator Borowski was talking about getting off the deficit reduction path. Well, we're talking about the correction, the policy change that the law and justice government represents... This is not a change in the policy of the Government of Law and Justice, this is a correction of the poorly prepared budget that was made by the previous government. We cannot talk about politics here, about the decision of the current government to step off the deficit reduction path. We realise the budget that has been badly constructed, and that is the result of this realization this year. Next year this deficit, as announced After all, you will see this in a project that will soon reach this House of 2,8%. So this deficit reduction declaration... I understand that deficit reduction policy will be maintained and this year's increase in deficit results from the necessary correction of the budget badly prepared by the previous government. After all, no one wants to allow Poland again, like most PO-PSL governments, to be part of the excessive deficit procedure imposed by the European Commission. Keeping the government deficit in check is a very important task and we will certainly not allow the European Commission again to impose an excessive deficit regime on Poland. Finally, about Minister Ratty and what happened to the budget. I would like to tell you that my delicate joke about what Minister Szczurek did, explain: Minister Szczurek planted this budget himself, planted it himself.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u145	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I always thought the Senate was a cultural place. Sometimes, unfortunately, you hear different sentences... But I don't think it should rain here to say that there's a problem with eyesight or anything else. I was at a pre-election meeting; one of the ladies at a meeting with diabetics, wanting to express herself as best as possible, said something like this: when I look at you, I see that most of you could use a geriatric. She thought well, but she said it quite differently. But I'll get back to the subject. If you go into a house that needs renovation, sometimes to start with, unfortunately, you have to take credit, and only after this house is renovated will you get clean, you can function well. As far as fund-related activities are concerned, let me tell you one thing: my experience in Parliament is still short, but I remember that when I was on the board of the county, we always made budget adjustments at the end of the year. And I believe that this correction is necessary at every level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u147	Thank you, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes? [[As part of a three-minute replica, I'd like to...]] Okay, please, just cut the speaking time to one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u148	I'll talk from here. Mr. Marshal, I'm just one thing to Senator Bierecki... Mr. Senator, we're not questioning all kinds of things that have been said here from the stand, except, of course, this issue of poor sight and hearing, of which the Senator... I'm signing off on it. I just want to say one thing. Once again, if you could explain it to us to understand exactly... Why and why the deficit is increasing if the revenue is at 80% at the end of November and the expenditure at 79% ? But, I think, and as Senator Borowski said, after the end of this year, we will have the answer to this question, because certainly not today.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u149	This is a replica? [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no, I'm not encouraging you. We should finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u150	Mr. Marshal, encouraged by your gaze, let me say that all this has to be said in this matter has already been said. The senator repeats his questions, which he has already received an answer to. Maybe he didn't get the answer. [[Senator, I thought you were smarter.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u151	No, no, thank you very much. Okay, I'm gonna give myself a voice right now. [[The voice of the hall: He that fights with the sword shall perish by the sword.]] No, no, I'm sorry... Please... If you have anything to say, please speak up. I signed up now. What I'm trying to say is that I didn't get the answers to all my doubts and questions either. And the doubts were that if we introduce a fixed expenditure into budget expenditure, this 500 PLN, because only this at the moment... Is this, in fact, a deficit of 2,8% will it be maintained in the following years? I understand that this 500 PLN is not a one-off expense, but it will be a recurring expense. We don't have a bill, but I think it's based on the information we heard. I would like to say that... I have to argue here a little bit with my club colleague, Senator Jan Rulewski, who has addressed a very important issue, namely the law on aid for democratic opposition activists and the underground of "Solidarity," accusing Deputy Minister Majszczyk of a particular desire to block. I would like to say, Senator, that the role of Minister Majszczyk is to watch the money, to watch the expenses. She's done it before, and she's probably going to do it in this term too, and I hope she's going to do it again. And the problem, Mr. Senator, was that... it was the information of the IPN, not any particular aversion to this bill by Deputy Minister Majszczyk. IPN stated that expenditure would be PLN 1.5 billion. We said right away that this is the number taken from the air and we were right. The expenditure this year is, let's assume, over 200 thousand PLN. If we multiply it by four, because only in this one quarter did this bill function for good, it's going to be a million... a couple million zlotys. That's the IPN error that caused this situation. I hope that the new government will change this situation, and I think it should change it. It already has an assessment of the amount of expenditure and no one can say that it will be up to PLN 0.5 billion, it will be a few million zlotys. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Ryszka has made his speech to the minutes. The discussion is closed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Voting...]] The vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the law amending the Act amending certain laws relating to the implementation of the budget law. The text of the act is contained in print No 30 and the report of the committee In print No 30A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The law amending the law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of the budget law, as its name says, is closely related to the point we discussed just a moment ago, i.e. the changes in the budget for 2015. It de facto contains two elements. The first element is a reduction of PLN 209 million,492,000 in national defence funds. This change is due to some savings that have been made. These savings result, among others. from the fact that some investments have not been implemented, will be implemented next year, and thus the financing will take place next year. The issue of savings on the pension provision of soldiers This year, more than enough soldiers were supposed to retire than they were supposed to. Some savings were also on tenders. In view of the fact that the Armed Forces Equipment Act assumes that the rate of defence expenditure must be 1.95 and that, after reducing this expenditure by PLN 209 million, it will of course be less, we must amend the article. Paragraph 7 1 Act of 2001 on technical reconstruction and modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Poland. And that's one element in this bill. The second element is a change in the spending of a possible special-purpose reserve, which will be set up for a grant to the Material Reserve Agency for the implementation of tasks. If such a reserve is available, it will be created from savings, within the limits of 28 and 29 December. Since there is a procedure for allocating such funds, this law changes it because the Public Finance Commission in the Sejm would have to meet. And, as you know, there's a period... Well, there's actually a few days left by the end of the year. Yesterday, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance recommended that this law be adopted without amendment. The proposal was adopted unanimously and 8 senators voted in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u153	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u154	Mr. Marshal... [[Mr. Senator, I'd like to speak on the stand. Okay, here you go.]] Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! I would like to ask, what was the reason for the savings created in the Ministry of National Defence sector, as a result of the Minister's rational actions, to be allocated to the Material Reserve Agency and not to reduce the deficit of the state budget? What's the practice so far? Such that any savings in practice led to a reduction in the deficit of the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u155	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u156	But, Senator, this savings of PLN 209 million does not mean that this amount will be transferred to the Material Reserve Agency. These are two completely separate elements in this bill. PLN 209 million is part of these savings, PLN 6.5 billion, which in the Act amending the Budget Act for the current year... They've already been made and distributed out there. And if there are further savings in the budget, in December, the Minister may allocate them to the agency's special grant. This isn't... This is not about the mentioned 209 million PLN, certainly not. [[And why for the agency and not for the deficit reduction?]] Mr. Editor... Excuse me, Mr. Senator... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You're a good editor.]] I've never been an editor. Mr. Senator, apparently the government... This was not discussed at the meeting of the finance committee. But apparently the government sees the need to strengthen the Material Reserve Agency. That's what you'd have to ask the minister who's in the courtroom. This issue was not discussed at the committee meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u157	I have another question for you, in connection with this reduction of the MON budget by PLN 209 million. What's he gonna look like? 'Cause you didn't say that. The defense spending rate? Because he was supposed to be 1.95%.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u158	You know... This indicator must, of course, count the ministry. But since spending is about 32 billion zlotys, and we're reducing it by 209 million zlotys... I'm counting on it fast, but it's going to be about 1.9%. ,with a piece. You'd have to count it... I don't know if the Minister has that figure. We... There were no such questions from the senators at the committee meeting, and I am not going to count this indicator out of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u159	Thank you. I'll have... I'll ask the Minister. Because we have some commitments to keep the indicator at 2%. [[But it's just for this year.]] For this year? [[Yeah, just for this year.]] Yeah, but I'm asking what this year's indicator is gonna look like. Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration? If so, go to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the information already provided by your senator, I would like to say that absolutely the resources derived from the blockades made in the National Defence Department cannot be shifted and will not be transferred to the Material Reserve Agency, they have just reduced the deficit presented in this project. The appropriations which may possibly be sent to the Agency shall be - Just like the senator said. From the possible further savings that will come after the novel and before the end of the year, and depending on what the revenue will look like, as I pointed out during the discussion of the Budget Act. And as for the reasons for which this provision has been introduced, one is simply the fact that these savings can occur, and the other is that the creation of strategic reserves is the duty of the state, is the law on strategic reserves. Given the very low prices on the market, deflation is as much a period as possible that serves to make purchases because they can be made at lower prices while fulfilling the obligations. As regards the ratio, which will be reduced by 209 million expenditures in the national defence department, the expenditure referred to in the Law on the modernisation and financing of the Armed Forces, will be 1,938, or 1,93, but in total almost 1,94. And once again, if it weren't for this novel, these expenses would be less of the money I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u161	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There are no calls so far. And I'd like to ask the Minister something. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Yes?]] I'd ask for a kind answer about taking the 209 million out of the MON budget. That 209 million is not spent. Is this the result of the savings, namely the MON saved this 209 million in connection with well-built tenders, or did it not carry out any tenders or purchases that were planned?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! So detailed information... I don't know if some of the planned expenses were left. the tender procedures have not been completed. This will certainly be included in the 2015 report. Surely, the amount of savings from this indicator concerns inter alia. savings in social security expenditure, i.e. expenditure related to the financing of soldiers' pensions. It's a matter of planning how many people will declare leaving. In this case we have less retirement than was planned in the budget, hence part of the savings, i.e. over PLN 100 million, comes from this segment. There are also savings in investment expenditures, but certainly, as we have worked out, They relate to better price offers obtained during the tendering process. Unfortunately, I have no information on whether any of the proposed tenders have not been completed. I'm sorry, but this information can be completed in detail on the basis of the report.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u163	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski asks questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u164	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. From what I understand, there was no chance this year of using this money. We need to change the bill because there's this stiff 1.95. I have a question for you. Maybe the Minister would like to say whether all the funds to be used for the army have been used or not in budgets for the last two to three years, as laid down in the budget laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u165	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u166	They weren't fully exploited. These amounts were different and were described in detail in the reports. Now I don't remember exactly the argument, but it happened for different reasons. Most of the time, according to my memory, these were social security issues, because it's always a big unknown. That's a statement from a natural person you don't have any influence on, that's a right, isn't it? Therefore, there were certainly savings in this segment, but there were also savings in investment expenditure.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u167	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Senator Barbara Zdrojewska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u168	My dear Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators, Mr Senator and Mr Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! As a matter of fact, the speech I am making at the moment could be given in almost all the points of today's proceedings. It's about the procedure and the way we discuss the materials we get from the Sejm. It is also about sayings that were earlier today when I asked questions. Senator Mammytov, who I am very sorry for twisting his name earlier, said that those who wanted to prepare for the debate had the opportunity. Once again, I repeat my question about how they had the opportunity. Do they go to any special government meetings? Are they familiar with the changes there? We work by the book. What does that mean? The Rules of Procedure are very specific when a project should be discussed when it should be considered, and the senators should have time to get acquainted with the project. And once again, the situation where the draft is being delivered to the committee meeting in the briefcase, and the minister actually comes and explains what's there, what we just got on the desk, tells us about the changes that are in the budget... Yeah, he presents it, maybe he can answer some questions. But how can we ask these questions? This already applies to another law that is being prosecuted. I agree with the fact that it is usually at the end of the year that laws are coming to amend the budget law. It's natural, it's not weird. It always changes a lot in a year, and whether the government changes or doesn't change, mostly this kind of law at the end of the year affects. But not like this, not like this. I think it's just offensive. I find it offensive to me as a senator because once again we present at the Senate meeting... I appeal to the marshal. I would like to appeal very strongly to the Senate to take this place very seriously and to take the Marshal very seriously, both from the PiS and those who are in opposition. Because we all have the right to read the projects, and this meeting cannot take place at the committee meeting, ladies and gentlemen. Because that's even denying any standards, any rules that apply to us. We didn't come up with that rule book. He's been in office for years, he's been in his previous term. When you were in opposition, he was respected. There is no reason to say that every bill is special, urgent and requires extraordinary procedures, because we do not always deal with such laws. I'd like to ask your marshal very much. And I resigned because I wanted to file for rejection, and it should actually apply to all these laws... I kindly inform you that from now on and in committee meetings, just like this I have done so at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, and at the meetings of this House I will apply for rejection of laws which will not be tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because I see no reason to work on them in this way. I guess I'm just gonna knock on my door and say something really important's gonna happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u169	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Grzegorz Pekkis.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u170	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal, has there actually been a violation of any rule of law, as the senator said here? Has there been such a violation of the law? Has the legislator, any of the lawyers watching, observed a violation of the law in this courtroom? [[Norm of the Rules of Procedure.]] [[Are you asking me, Senator?]] Yeah, yeah, I'm asking because you put some thesis here, you didn't protest, so I understand... [[And why did I have... besides the rules of the Senate, there are customs...]] Yeah, yeah. It's just that this place has been returned a lot... [[I don't want to argue with you. You know, I can, of course, answer your questions...]] No, Mr. Marshal... It's just... what do I mean? There are some thesis being played and passed on here, and there are senators coming out of your mouth, including the senator, some thesis with which I, sitting there, disagree. If everyone who disagrees started talking about it, we'd have a situation here similar to what we have in the Seym. This is actually a chamber of reflection, a chamber of some seriousness, which is why I would kindly ask you to be responsible for the words that are spoken here. If it really was the way the senator said it was, all the legal rules had been violated. 'Cause that's what the senator said just now. I would kindly ask you to indicate which rules have been broken. And in such a situation, I ask you to take responsibility. If criminal, it's criminal for those who broke it, if that's the case. And if that's not the case, don't say it like that, because it's offensive to me sitting here. You say there's no job available. We've got the tablets on which you have the opportunity of a senator. When you go to the senate page. gov.pl review of the documents we are discussing. So if the senator doesn't have a tablet like that, then please report to maintenance so that you... or if you can't handle it, or if you don't... Please report that you do not have the option. I, keeping an eye on the documents we're dealing with, know I have the opportunity. Attention my predecessor, one of the senators, that he has to sit at night... Yeah, well, it's the time that we're gonna work like this. I understand that maybe compared to the previous term it is not so obvious that we are sitting quite systematically. But, Mr. Marshal, there's a situation that needs to be discussed. And they are discussed quite meticulously The final meeting therefore began at 9 a.m. and ended late at night. But I think it's normal. And speaking here... a senator accuses us of making some night shifts, night bombings. He was talking about the night bombing, and it's already such a deep abuse of the word... and it's finally being said by serious people... I listen to it as a person who has no experience because I'm young, but I respect the Senate so much. Before I listened to it, before I listened to what was being said... Because I, like my colleagues, other young people, have a lot of respect for this House, and I don't think it should be that the senators are accusing the President of doing very serious things. [[Senator Maria Paniczyk-Podzierz: What actions?]] The predecessor accused a very serious act. It's a word manipulation only to devalue the first person in the country. Why? What is the purpose of this? What purpose does that serve? I mean, it's completely unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u171	Thank you, Senator. Each senator has an opportunity to speak. And there may be contradictions here, we don't have to agree. And don't expect me to argue with you because I'm in the middle of this session right now. I'd love to go into polemics with you, but I'm driving, so I have to... I can't do this. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As for the bill, I would like to draw your attention again... Because there is a question here, which is linked to the previous draft law, namely point 3 and that changes to the financial plan of the Material Reserve Agency made in mode, etc., do not require an opinion by the Parliamentary Committee responsible for budget matters. So this is kind of a confirmation of what we were talking about: everything that is related to the creation, in our assessment unnecessarily, the budget deficit will probably go down. 'Cause I'm not 100% sure about that, but I think that's how it's prepared. Among other things, the Material Reserve Agency without the opinion of the committee responsible. It's done in the name of achieving all sorts of goals, but I'm not going to talk about them. And just two more words to Senator Pekkis who said he was such a young senator. Mr. Senator, here's what I'm gonna say. As far as the criticism of the President is concerned, I am pleased that there is a reflection that the head of state must be protected especially when it comes to expressing an opinion on it. The senator was talking about a tablet, so I encourage you to look at history, to return to the statements of some parliamentarians, even senators, and certainly of today's Members. I can print them. And remember how they spoke about former President Bronisław Komorowski. I subscribe to the appeal, in the senator's words, that what concerns the criticism of the head of state should be subject to special reflection and the use of certain words to it is reprehensible, I subscribe to it. Which doesn't mean that in cases where you, Mr. President, seem to be crossing what's going on with the state policy that you've seen correctly, I have no right to say anything. Otherwise, we would have come to absurdity. That's about criticizing the President, and I think there's a lot of reason for that. Now what the senator said and what you picked up when it came to breaking the law and stuff. We'd like to ask you gently to make a bill... There are rules that talk about how long they should be considered. And remembering the history of the previous four years, we can say that it has also happened, Mr. Senator, that these terms have been shortened. This is life, and I understand that it checks records. But I would like to point out that if this were the standard of work in this parliament, it's that it doesn't represent itself... It is particularly about senators who are first in parliament in this term and who must have a little more time to get acquainted with the materials. I have read and watched more in my first term than I have now, as a result of the experience I have gained. Anyway, that's why the senator at the club picked it up, and here she says it would be good to follow the rules regarding the time of delivery of materials, opinions, etc., the whole block of documents, which should be examined calmly to come and to discuss with understanding from this tribune. That's one thing. Secondly, if the senator thinks that night sittings are the norm, then I would like to say yes: what difference does it make whether we sit at night or during the day? I'd like to say the senator might disagree with that. It is not necessarily the senators of the Republic of Poland that gather under the cover of the night. And that's why we're proposing that if there's no war in this country or anything else... Unless there's a war. But if not, let's not get together at night, let's not sit day by day. And I want to say what I said last night at the committee meeting. We do not yet have any proposal from the government, Prime Minister Beata Szydło. All these are parliamentary proposals... [[Oh, come on.]] Is there one? [[Previous.]] Oh, I'm sorry, that's right, I'm running too fast. Indeed, the amendment of the budget is made by the government, that is correct. But please note that a penny of laws is filed by Members because it requires a simpler procedure, because we drop it off at midnight, and you sign it in the morning. If this happens in the case of some draft laws, then okay. The senator's request is so that it does not become the norm so that we have more time to get acquainted, discuss more, analyse more, because the Senate, I will remind you, is a Polish Chamber of Reflection and we dream of staying that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u173	Thank you, Senator. I'd like the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad that bill came to us. Of course, it is necessary. As I have just learned from the Minister present at our meeting, this was mentioned earlier, about PLN 6.5 billion of funds that were in the budget were not used until the budget was submitted. And it is very good that the government is rationalising these expenses and trying to adapt to the current situation. I will remind you that in Poland in 2015 we had presidential elections, we had parliamentary elections, there was a change of government. It was relatively late in relation to the course of budget work, because this deadline was moving. Therefore, the government had a short period to prepare these documents, to draw up and present to the High Parliament all these measures. That is why it was simply necessary to agree to this way of working in Parliament on the novel of this budget. And you had to accept that. Because Mrs Zdrojewska... I'm sorry, Senator Zdrojewska, she mentioned that the law was violated, that this is a mode... Yesterday, when I was holding a cultural committee meeting, I asked. The relevant article of our Senate Rules of Procedure is Is it okay to process a printing that the senators didn't receive for 24 hours before? The vote took place and the procedure took place in accordance with our rules of procedure. I would like to address the opposition at this point, which is trying to use the situation for political purposes. We had a rehearsal here this morning... Senator Klich wanted us to proceed with a resolution that makes sense right now... which is unfounded. I'll remind you because maybe the High House doesn't know that the Attorney General has closed a dispute over the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal has no right to rule on the resolutions of the Sejm. The proceedings have been terminated. The application shall be terminated on the basis of Article. Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. In accordance with Article 2 (2) of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, the Advocate General stated in a letter to the Constitutional Tribunal dated 16 December 2015 that the judgment was inadmissible. This is a response to the request of Members of the Civic Platform for resolutions adopted by the new Parliament. In his statement of reasons, the prosecutor stated that the Constitutional Tribunal would have exceeded its powers by ruling on the resolutions of the Sejm. I will quote a passage from this letter: the resolutions contested by a group of Members are not normative acts, but acts of application of the law. The audit powers of the Constitutional Tribunal shall cover only the assessment of normative acts and shall not extend to acts of application, even if they have been issued by reference directly to the contested provisions. At the same time, the Attorney General referred to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 5 June 2005: the Court has repeatedly stressed that its jurisdiction extends to normative acts, but does not include individual and specific acts. In doing so, the Court uses the substantive definition of a normative act, which means that it is an act containing general and abstract standards which are characterised by repetitiveness. They do not have those characteristics of acts addressed to an individual entity concerning a particular case or situations where the application is of a one-off nature. In the light of the above judgment, the Advocate General concludes that the Constitutional Tribunal has no right to rule on judges. So he cannot determine whether the Sejm has legally annulled the election of five... i.e. annulled the election of five candidates for judges or not. It closes in a legal sense the whole storm around the Constitutional Court. And we're talking about the budget... This was about proceding; I answer to Senator Zdrojewska. And I would like to say, to appeal... From this stand, from this point on 12 June 2015, I spoke when we discussed the Constitutional Court, about this famous novel of 25 June, which the Constitutional Tribunal itself ruled unconstitutionally. Questions were raised in this Chamber to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal or to the Article. 137 of this novel is constitutional or not. The President has refused to answer. I will tell you more: at the committee meeting in the Sejm, the amendment formally tabled by Robert Kropiwnicki, Mr Graniecki, head of the Registry of the Constitutional Tribunal. This can be checked in the minutes of the committee meeting. So if we're talking about an assassination attempt on the Constitutional Tribunal, its origins... [[Voice from the room: But now it's a print issue 30!]] ...have taken place at the turn of May and June. And making such a conclusion that the President does not execute the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, bears the marks of a recommendation and an invective. Finally, I hope that next year's army budget will return to a factor of 1.95%. ... [[Voice from the room: And even 2%...]] ...and it'll even be bigger, and that means... [[Voice from the room: 3%.]] ...will be used. I'm not talking about the situations that the Minister mentioned. It is difficult to predict these social security features, because there is some inertia in this, so of course it is difficult. But I am talking here, above all, about the measures that are designed to modernise the army and to increase its fighting capacity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u175	Thank you. Mr. Senator, you've entered another area of discussion. [[No, Mr. Marshal, I answered...]] No, no... [[Senator didn't notice.]] You've gone into another area. We're not discussing the Constitutional Court. But as you read this sentence, it seems there's also a part about not publishing in the Official Journal of the Laws. [[Voice from the room: But he didn't read it anymore.]] Yeah, you didn't read that one anymore. [[I'll read it right away.]] I'd ask you not to enter the tribunal discussion, because we're definitely going to be discussing it again. Next week, Mr. Senator, we're gonna be discussing the Court and the new bill, and then I'm asking you to... Now I'm asking you to stick to the subject. Who's next? [[Voice from the room: Dowhan.]] [[Senator Dowhan.]] Oh, Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u176	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[I'd like you to add to that, senator.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Senator, for bringing forward the case of the Constitutional Court, we have clarity, the prosecutor has said whether it is right or wrong, so let everyone leave it to their assessment. I, too, would like to discuss a point that is currently going on, but we have gone down the road. And speaking of my young colleague, Senator Pekkis, I'm going to say that until now I haven't met with the point of entering the podium and going completely off the case, and asking questions to a marshal who isn't even involved in the procedure at all. In addition to the Rules of Procedure, there is always a good custom, and such a good custom in this House has always been respected, and I can say that because I am a senator of the previous term, although it may not be a long internship. I also want to say that we tried differently then, there was more peace, there was no stress, there was some confidence in each other, we didn't sit at night and this chamber didn't fall over at all, and as for the things that were being discussed, everyone had time to prepare for them: some people read on the Internet quickly, others listened to the committee reports, others could do it in a different way. And I'm not surprised at my friend, who's here for the first term, as long as I know she's worried today and she doesn't like it. I like to work in peace, too. I like to work when it's light. I like to work prepared, not forcefully, as it was last time: until 3.00 or 4.00 a.m. to strangle senators to infinity ask questions, and the outcome of the debate and the result of the vote were already known. And that's just what I'd like to ask, that's all I'd like to suggest. This budget bill, I think, has already been said. I'll vote against it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u177	Thank you, gentlemen of the Senators. I'll pass the appeals to the bureau at the meeting. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska. [[Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u178	Mr. Senator, who said he was young, congratulations. It's really something special to be young. But besides youth, I still have experience, and it's years of experience in self-government. I was already the president of the City Council of Wrocław, and I was also the president of the Provincial Sejm. It was my duty to uphold procedures and good customs. And so I tried to do, performing these important, honorable functions. And that's why I've asked your marshal to follow our rules, for the sake of our common good, our good customs, and especially the procedures under which we sign ourselves, because these are our rules, because these are our procedures. And I don't think you understand me. I don't want to insult anyone. I'm just asking you, I'm addressing you because you can actually vote everything out. As I put it at the committee meeting, you can vote on it and this proposal will be ineffective. But what if I don't get to know the material until after the committee's meeting? Don't tell me about the tablets here. Check it out when it came to the Senate of the Sejm and when it was announced. Let's take each other seriously and take our work seriously. And this is really my huge request. Let us return to the good rule that the projects that are being examined in the Seym come to us and we can refer calmly to them next week and not to them in principle at the same meeting. This whole calendar turns us out to be able to prepare ourselves well, to consult voters. It's not that we don't want to sit here. There you go, we can sit here at night. But I wouldn't want to have this situation like I already had, and I'll have it again next Monday, that I'm dating six people who want to meet the senator, and I'm about to find out that there's a sitting and I have to cancel meetings with the voters. Because it is important for me to be here, to participate in the deliberations and to evaluate the projects that appear. So that's all I'm saying. Can't you even show some basic understanding on this matter? At least let's follow the rules. That's all I'm asking. You can vote us out later, but let's respect each other, because the hastily passed law, the law done on your knees, in an hour, at the last moment, is mostly a bad law. And it doesn't just apply to the current rulers, it applies to everyone at all. The law prepared on the knee is usually a bad law. And as for the Court, Mr. Senator Jackowski, we're about to find out that we won't have anyone to appeal to and... [[To the D.A.'s office.]] ...we're gonna have a lot of bad, bad, illegal laws that will work. I don't want to have this discussion anymore. We'll talk about the Court next week, too. But I would like to say that I hope that in this House good customs and regulations will be respected, as I ask you and your senators, and your marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Member. [[Senator.]] Senator Krzysztof Frost speaks.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm just in addition to my earlier statement... So there's no misunderstanding... Back to the bill we are debating, I would like to say that the current bill is a government submission. It's for the senator's statement. It is natural that some draft laws are government, some are parliamentary. I hope that there will also be our senatorial billings. So it's not like all draft laws are written by parliamentarians. It's just an extension and an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u181	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you, Minister. Oh, no, there's another point. Excuse me. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The third.]] Third? Yes? [[Yes.]] Then I was wrong. I'm sorry. Okay. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 31 and the report of the Commission In print No 31 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Yesterday, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance discussed a law on specific arrangements for implementing the 2016 Budget Act. We have achieved a lot in the country, we continue to achieve a lot, but we still can't afford everything, we can't finance everything in such an obvious way. Sometimes special solutions are needed, so it has been in previous years and this year, and such specific solutions are also needed for 2016. They concern the financial sphere, both continuous processes, which will continue throughout the year and individual events, which also need specific funding. They belong to the first group, for example. financing of professional training of teachers or post-graduate traineeships of doctors and dentists, nursing specializations. In the second area belong e.g. two events we will see next year in Poland. Here I am thinking about the summit of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and World Youth Day which will take place in Krakow. This is why we need such detailed solutions. As I said, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance worked on this at yesterday's meeting and recommended the adoption of a law. Such a position was adopted unanimously by the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u183	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I don't see any such questions. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Majszczyk like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the rapporteur has already said, this around budget law has been an annual act adopted by the High House for the budget for the following financial year for several years. This is due to the reasons mentioned by the senator, i.e. some of us still dealing with restrictions as regards the level of resources that we can have in the state budget in order to achieve the various objectives that are a priority in the implementation of government policy, state policy. On the other hand, it is an opportunity to look for other sources of funding for tasks; their implementation is not postponed or abandoned by such a around budget law, but is financed, instead of from the state budget, also by public funds, but not directly from the budget. In this case, savings are a little bit of savings in quotes, because they allow public finances to be kept under certain conditions, while at the same time fulfilling the tasks of the state and the priorities of social, family or other assumptions that have been adopted for the following financial year, but it is necessary to pursue certain criteria, certain objectives that we want to achieve. And in the case of this around budget law, I can say that, as in the last few years, it is assumed to finance medical traineeships from the Labour Fund, not from the state budget, although since 2015 the state budget has also partially participated in the financing of these traineeships. In 2016, this will be, as in this year, the amount of PLN 835 million from the Labour Fund and nearly PLN 200 million from the state budget, so that all medical university graduates can apply for traineeships and continue their training in the right directions. At this stage, it is not possible to transfer this funding to the state budget, because the removal of these funds from the Labour Fund... There is no financial space in the state budget so that this can be allowed, especially after the High House has adopted also in the current year arrangements for amendments to the Employment Promotion Act, where certain rules have also been introduced and funds have been spent for the purposes of combating unemployment. But these principles, these solutions have brought some findings and rigid rules, which are enshrined in this Act, which, for technical reasons, makes it impossible to remove these funds from the Labour Fund at present and to move them to the budget, because this would require finding almost PLN 1 billion in the budget, and there is no such financial space, especially if different other commitments are taken into account and the fact that, as a rule, the state budget has for many, many years maintained such a structure of expenditure that about 75% expenditure is rigid expenditure and only part, the 25% These are flexible expenditures which can be defined or reduced in any way. So there is little space for such solutions. In addition, there are other constraints such as a stabilizing expenditure rule, but also a 3-percent indicator as a deadline, which next year, as has already been said, will not be exceeded, moreover, is estimated to be 2,8% But this requires the introduction of these different solutions, which I will talk about in a moment. The second major change proposed to the High House in this around budget law is the suspension in 2016 of the implementation of the legislation on biofuels. It's about art. 37a, which refers to the creation of a fund to promote biofuels, a fund which is defined rigidly as a percentage of planned excise revenue. The suspension of the functioning of this provision gives savings in the state budget of PLN 440 million, which will allow for the full allocation of these funds to other priorities, in particular priorities of a social nature, linked inter alia to the planned and also in the assumptions of the draft budget for 2016 showing the basis for the payment of one-off additional benefits to pensioners, but also to the announced reform of the rules on the funding of children's education and the allocation of the amount of PLN 500 per child; of course, the measures will be secured for this, the process of preparing this legal act is still underway. Another amendment which is proposed, the amendment concerning the existing legislation, concerns the basis for the write-down to the social benefit fund. It is proposed to maintain previously used frozen bases in particular professional groups. Savings for this are about PLN 200 million. Employee training expenditure is also made more flexible. Here savings, some possibilities of saving in budgets will appear primarily on the side of local government units, where a little more flexible can be created, not in the form of 1% teacher's salary fund, but from 0.5% up to 1%. Of course, this is also due to the fact that local government units and other beneficiaries, the cell managers, who are obliged to make such write-downs, first benefit from EU funds, but According to statistics and budget implementation from previous years These rigid write-offs were not entirely used, but the obligation to plan for these purposes prevented them from being used for other purposes, including education. Speaking of this around budget law, as regards strictly substantive provisions, it is necessary to draw attention to the reproduced regulation for 2015 in the 2016 Act, a solution which in some way means funds from educational subsidies to local government units from the state budget. This is a certain importance of these measures in such a way that, as in 2015, local authorities are expected to be required to spend at least as much as they were charged in the educational subsidy for the organisation of education for children with disabilities. This is the solution, as I said, for the first time in 2015. In view of the numerous speeches made by associations, various organisations representing carers of disabled children as a necessary, necessary solution, very well assessed this year will be carried over to the following year. There are also a number of technical solutions that help to carry out some of the new tasks that will appear next year, and which the senator has already mentioned. These are solutions related to the possibility of providing funding for the NATO Summit. The Around Budget Act provides the legal basis for financing all these expenditures from the Ministry of National Defence. There is also a legal basis for additional funding of the Polish Press Agency due to additional burden, additional tasks that will accompany the World Youth Day organisations, because this event will also be organized next year. The Around Budget Act establishes a legal basis for the provision of funds to the press agency in general. Of course, in connection with this event additional funds will also be directed to public television, but here there was no need to create a separate legal basis, because it already exists in law. There is also a technical issue here concerning the electronic transmission of certain information to local governments, which will also bring some savings in the part supervised by the Minister of Finance. We are also observing what I was talking about at the beginning, the search for other sources of funding for certain tasks, apart from budgetary resources. I am referring to the financing of contributions to international organisations, those to which the Minister of the Environment is obliged to bear and bring to these organisations. A slightly over 49 million contributions from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management are made possible here. And I think the last change I would like to mention is to allow the budget of the State to advance measures for beneficiaries implementing certain EU programmes. Once these programmes have been verified, the funds that the European Union is returning will already be transferred directly to the state budget. Maybe just one last little thing I'd like to signal for myself. Well, there is a freezing of the basic amount for those who take management positions, so-called. an erki, where this freezing of the base amount is at the level of 2008. Here, the principle has been adopted that, since the basic quotas for the whole budgetary sphere are to be frozen, such a freezing of quotas should also apply to managers. Except that both in the first and in the second case, i.e. both for the persons performing these functions and for the staff of the budgetary sphere, although these base amounts are being frozen, the 2016 budget allocates funds to raises. The absence of an increase in the base amount is due to the assumption that an increase in the base amount would result in an equal increase in all these salaries, and after these few years of freezing of the remuneration fund... Those decisions should be left to unit managers so that they can channel adequate money streams for increases where this is necessary for the proper performance of tasks, where the persons to whom these funds will be directed have the highest qualifications, are the most committed to carrying out these tasks. The aim is also to adapt these measures accordingly to the groups of persons for whom this remuneration is the lowest in the professional group concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u185	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see... [[Voice in the O.R.: There's a call.]] Senator Blackbay, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We've already asked some questions at the committee meeting, but if I may ask... It's about art. 9 on pension benefits available to the President of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. What's the sum of something like that? What events would have to occur in order to be able to run this amount? That's the first question. And the second, concerning the article. 10. I'm sorry, but I didn't ask that question at the committee meeting. Why are we funding... Why the proposal to finance the European Space Agency from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management? [[These are contributions.]] I know it's contributions. But why not from the budget, just from this fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u187	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u188	As far as these measures are concerned, they will only come from the budget... It's about funds to the KRUS. Here's the legal option. In the case of the Social Insurance Institution and the financing of the Social Insurance Fund, it appears from the laws relating to that institution that they may receive subsidies from the State budget, while in the case of... I mean, KRUS also gets grants For next year it will amount to more than PLN 17 billion. As I pointed out in my statements at the committee's meeting, this is rather a tool proposed as a solution in case of an accident which, theoretically, could be applied if the number of these pensioners... In particular, the transition from EU pensions I don't remember how they are precisely defined according to the nomenclature for agricultural KRUS. If it's more people than it's been calculated, then just so it doesn't... pensions are guaranteed by the state and there's no way they're not paid. As there would be no procedures to power the KRUS, such a tool is introduced. Like I said, it's a safety net. It is about PLN 300 million, but we hope that there will be no need for funding of this size. As far as the space agency is concerned, this is because of the limitations I mentioned. Please note that there is a stabilising expenditure rule that imposes a limit on expenditure from the state budget, which is defined as an accident of certain other expenditures. You'll be discussing this rule in a moment. The procedure for setting a limit on expenditure that can be spent at the level of the state budget depends on the estimated expenditure, among other things, in local governments, which expenditure results from the National Health Fund plan, the Labour Fund. Finally, after taking into account the various elements referred to in the Finance Act, there is a pool of funds that can be spent directly from the state budget that we have now discussed. The envelope of these funds is insufficient to reconcile all the priorities and objectives that we would like you to pursue from the budget, and yet find about PLN 50 million for the budget of the Minister of the Environment to cover commitments that, in total, not his but the state. And here is the possibility of moving these expenditures to the National Environmental Fund, which solves these previous problems and at the same time allows them to carry out their duties.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u189	Minister, I have questions for you. The spending rule imposed a muzzle on expenses and it seemed to me that it was appropriate from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance. I understand that the Ministry of Finance... I have a question: does the Ministry of Finance support changes in this expenditure rule or not? That's the first question. And the other. These changes in indicators and the increase in... the change in index, the conversion of the forecasted price growth rate to the inflation target indicator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: This is the next point.]] [[This is the next bill, Mr. Marshal.]] Oh, I'm so sorry, I'm so sorry. I took legal opinions... It's on the front page. These legal opinions are very thin right now... I'll get back to you on that next bill. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Thank you.]] Are there any more questions? There's no... [[Voices from the O.R.: They're here.]] They're here. Good. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you about the write-off to the Social Benefits Department. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 is referred to as the frozen threshold, the base amount of 2012. I have a question as to whether this applies to other employees as well. The question is to freeze this threshold. If we're talking about counting a social fund. And when is it possible to expect this threshold to be frostbite? I'm not hiding that teachers or employees are waiting for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u191	Thank you. You asked Senator Andrzej Kaminski a question. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u192	Thank you. First of all, it must be pointed out that the obligation to make write-offs to the Social Benefits Fund is actually on the budgetary sphere. Of course, such opportunities exist throughout the economic sphere, including in the case of operators who may, under certain conditions, create such write-offs. This is what the laws say, but there is no obligation here, there is some optionality. Therefore, this restriction proposed by this law is general in nature, for all. The rules are general in nature and we are referring to these general provisions. But, as I have pointed out, they have a dimension that translates directly into a budget, because it is the legislation that results in an obligation. As regards the frostbite of the underlying amounts from which it is counted... Please note that this around budget bill does not prohibit the creation of... It sort of sets the level, the ceiling from which these calculations are based, depending on which group it concerns, whether from 2010 or 2012. Yesterday at the committee meeting I explained that those differences arising from the years from which these base amounts are accepted for different groups are due to the fact that these freezes were made in a certain order. In the beginning, this concerned a small group of budgetary actors, and later it was extended to the other ones, to teachers, to uniformed services. And that's why these years are different, and that's the only reason. When's the frostbite coming? Well, I think, when we budgetly can afford to finance higher write-downs, because it's, above all, as I said, an extra expense in the state budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u193	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Hanna Majszczyk: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 26 and the report of the Commission In print 26 A. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, one of the items on the agenda was the review of the Law on amending the Public Finance Act. What does this change concern? The amendment to the Act concerns two issues. The first point is the change mentioned here by your marshal that stabilizes the expenditure rule. It's an art. 112aa paragraph. 1 and 2 laws. To date, this rule was based on the price index of CPI goods and services. The government's proposal, specifically the Ministry of Finance as an applicant, is to change this indicator to the NBP's medium-term inflation target. The second point, the second objective of this law, is the possible increase of the expenditure limit for the expected implementation of significant one-off and temporary actions in the financial year. That's the mouth. This Regulation shall enter into force on the First of all, I would like to point out that the applicants, i.e. the representatives of the Minister of Finance, at the committee meeting drew attention to the determination of the indicator that the adoption of the law in its current form was preceded by a rather long discussion and reflection on the methods that could be used as regards this indicator, on what indicator to adopt. The CPI was then adopted. The proposed modification of the expenditure rule aims, as the applicants justify, to provide more precise forecasting of future expenditure and to make it more flexible, to adapt it to dynamic changes in the macroeconomic environment and to its cyclicality. In the view of the applicants, this change in the expenditure rule will be a better option in a situation of persistent low inflation or deflation. The Legislative Office did not make any significant comments on the project. There were no votes against in the vote, five senators were in favour, two abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u195	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Augustine, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u196	Mr. Senator, this bill allows us to loosen the rule for one-off and temporary events. Have these so - called events been defined? Has it been specified what is happening? Or is this matter left to be interpreted freely, such as language?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u197	Thank you. [[May I?]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u198	I mean... During the committee's deliberations, a representative of the Ministry of Finance did not hide that one such possible event was the conclusion of the LTE auction. And the amount of PLN 9 billion 500 thousand or PLN 9 billion 200 thousand, which appeared today during the meeting, was presented by the Ministry of Finance... It's going to be a row of magnitude, about that amount.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u199	Thank you very much. I don't see any more questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was introduced by Members. The Ministry of Finance was obliged to present the position of the government. Is the Undersecretary of the State of Leszek Skiba willing to speak? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Gladly, Mr. Marshal, if you have any questions.]] Good. I suspect there will be questions, Minister, so please go to the podium. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u200	I would like to ask the Minister the same question as the rapporteur's senator, because actually what he said brought me into confusion. Additional measures are of course good news for the budget, they improve its situation and do not require loosening the rules, but on the contrary They allow themselves to be maintained in these rules. So this cannot be considered a one-off or temporary adverse event that would result in the need to move away from the strict rule. I repeat, therefore, the question: what one-off and temporary situations are involved, which would exempt the government from the application of the spending rule so far?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u201	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! It is so that the introduction of this element into the expenditure rule, i.e. the inclusion of one-off and temporary expenses on the income side, is not a kind of deletion of the operation of the rule in this area, but it is just taking into account that such one-off and temporary revenues appear once in a while, once every several years. And this mechanism, the one-off income mechanism, is used, for example, in the European methodology. And here, even this passage is based on an appropriate understanding of one-off income in the way it is applied in the Council Regulation on fiscal matters. So there's a certain degree of compliance with European law here. So that's what... What's the point? We are dealing with one-off revenues, which at the same time allow to cover expenditure increased at a given time, temporarily. And that's neutral for the deficit. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. In fact, this is neutral for the deficit. Therefore, the introduction of these one-off income seems justified precisely because the principle of expenditure... Because there is a foundation, a fundamental principle and a basis for the spending rule, so that spending in the longer term is maintained in a certain proportion to GDP, so that we do not have to deal with some sudden increase in public spending so that these public finances are in a healthy state. And the introduction of this mechanism is part of this rule, which allows for the inclusion of these disposable income, since they are, but are no longer, in the following year, only temporarily affect the possibility of increasing the expenditure limit. And that's the goal. This does not affect the basis, the basic principle of the expenditure rule On sustainability of public finances, predictability of expenditure policy But this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to use these revenues, and here this change allows to take account of these one-off revenues. That's how I'd talk about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u203	Thank you, Minister. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In this proposal, we replace actual inflation with an inflation target, right? Because this year we have a problem. ♪ Or happiness ♪ That there's a deflation. And replacing this situation, this situation of actual inflation or even deflation with an inflation target also has some effects in the context of investment programmes and in general the rules. What do you think will be the effect of introducing this element, the inflation target, in investment expenditure next year?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u205	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u206	Thank you. This switch... Exactly: what was the purpose of the change in expenditure regulation, including the inflation target of the National Bank of Poland instead of forecast inflation and correction of inflation forecasts from previous years. Previously these elements, i.e. inflation forecast and correction of errors... The spending rule was very, procyclically, that is, reducing the rate of increase in public spending in years when inflation was very low, and particularly adversely affected the change in expenditure limit at a time when we were dealing with a downward trend in inflation, as in previous years, and in addition we had a number of forecasts... I mean, the prognosis errors were negative, so we were surprised by the capacity of this inflation. Therefore, this correction of previous years' forecasts had to take account of the fact that we were dealing with a number of such forecasts at a minus in the sense that it was surprisingly low inflation. And that was because... There has been a fall in inflation due to the fall in oil prices, the surprising decline in oil prices, greater than anyone could have expected. Thus, this element caused that the expenditure rule was very weak to increase the limits in the period of low inflation. At a time when inflation would be higher, e.g. over 2,5% ,the spending rule would allow for a strong increase in expenditure, which seems somewhat contrary to the main objective of fiscal policy as regards the countercyclicality of fiscal policy, because fiscal policy should aim to promote economic growth at times when there is a certain cyclical hole, and at a time when the economy is warmed up, it develops very quickly and at the same time inflation is high, precisely correcting the expenditure limit. Therefore, the introduction of an inflation target, i.e. the flattening of inflation, is precisely what is supposed to act countercyclically. The expenditure rule only works on the total limit of public expenditure, not just investment, but all. Therefore, this spending limit actually allows for an increase in... But what I can say... In the public debate, this change is treated as one that somehow changes the rules of the game. What I can say is that expenditure in the 2016 draft budget is much less than PLN 1 billion higher than the expenditure limit that applies today. I mean, it's not like you could say it's some kind of jumping height. It is much less than 1 billion, it is even less than 0.5 billion PLN. This is the amount by which this expenditure limit exceeded the expenditure rule that applies today.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u207	Thank you, Minister. Senator Blackbay. There you go. [[Minister...]] [[I can't hear you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u208	Can you hear it now? Oh, that's good. Minister, what you have now said is, I think, a good step, because it makes things more realistic and more flexible to respond to the situation of genuine inflation decline compared to projected. But tell me... I'm sorry, I didn't ask that at the committee meeting, and now I'm here. I am now talking about increasing expenditure according to the expenditure rule when it comes to one-off and temporary measures. As far as spending related to these one-off activities is concerned, is this in some way quantified, defined, or is there complete freedom when it comes to shaping this size?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u209	I mean, we're talking about disposable income, right? Which disposable income is included? The criterion is that they must be in line with the interpretation in the 1997 Council Regulation, this Regulation is in force. And this value must be at least 0.03% ... [[So she's referred to there as a cyclical correction?]] Yes, it is set out in the Council Regulation, which disposable income is treated as such and this is compatible, with how the European Commission approaches Polish finance and calculates the so-called. structural deficit, which is the difference between structural deficit and cyclically adjusted deficit. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u210	You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u211	Minister, I have three questions. First of all. This is a revision of the Public Finance Act and I believe that such laws should change the government, not the parliament, that is, it should not be a parliamentary initiative. Hence my question: why is this a parliamentary initiative, not a government initiative, specifically the Ministry of Finance, and do you support it? That's the first question. Two. Explain to me: does this bill loosen expenses or not? Here's the change in the indicator. The forecast price growth rate was replaced by the inflation target set by the Monetary Policy Council. The second objective of this law is to reduce the amount of expenditure calculated on the basis of the expenditure rule. I mean, about the other rule, it's clear. It's increasing... Does it increase, lower... You say she stabilizes or smoothes the hills, but I think she's increasing the spending. If you don't, you're gonna have to get me out of the way. And the third question. Will the amount of 9 billion of LTE be able to be spent on the basis of this change? Because you said that the limit, when it comes to some change and loosening, is basically 1 billion. As a result of what we have heard, I have this third question: can this amount of 9 billion from LTE be spent in accordance with this loosely spent rule?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u212	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u213	Thank you very much. The first question is whether the Ministry of Finance supports this project. Yes, the Ministry of Finance supports this bill. Indeed, this is a parliamentary project, but this is not the first time when changes to the expenditure rule are introduced under the parliamentary initiative, because, for example, the last amendment of the law, from June, introducing the Bank Guarantee Fund into the expenditure rule, was also introduced under the parliamentary initiative. Well, that's just the way it is, and I can't comment on it any differently than this. The Ministry of Finance supports this bill. As far as the second point is concerned, it is important that... I have the impression that it is worth reminding here what the cost rule is different from the budget. In fact, the expenditure rule is a certain budget framework in the sense that it sets a limit, i.e. it can be said that the expenditure rule is the context in which the budget functions. Korean money, e.g. with LTE's budget and because they are income, they can be spent, because as is income, there is expense... there is no expense, then the deficit is reduced. Expenditure rule in this context only and only determines whether this limit is increased by one-off influence, let alone what the government is going to do with this money. I think we're saying... And it's worth looking at it that way. The real question is, what's gonna happen to the LTE money... The best answer to this question is Minister Majszczyk, who spoke about the 2016 budget, can so that this question should be addressed to her. I can only say that this money will certainly raise the spending limit. These expenditures will appear or not in a specific budget law, and this will be the right time to say how this will affect the deficit. I'm sure... Is this a loosening of expenses? This is the same situation, this is talking about a framework that allows us to maintain the basic principle of the spending rule, which is precisely stability and predictability in the longer horizon, because it is... Please note that in the longer term, in a few years we will have to think more and more about public finance management in the long term. It's already happening. Of course there are many instruments, such as the convergence programme, which is prepared within the framework of the so-called. the European Semester, in the framework of public finance management in the European Union. But the important thing is that if we have these elements of forecasting inflation and correction of forecasts that have been so far, then, you can say, such instability in the expenditure rule does not allow us to easily set spending limits for the following years in the horizon not only one year, but two, three, four. Therefore, if we have an inflation target of 2,5% and we know this element, we are able to predict better or worse economic growth, it is thanks to this change that it is also easier to shape, anticipate this expenditure limit and design public budgeting in the horizon of several years. And is that about it? I'll answer the question. Is there a loosening of expenses? It all depends... The true content of fiscal policy is in budgets, the expenditure rule is precisely this context and therefore does not prejudge that this money will be spent. In the declaration of the Ministry of Finance is to maintain the fundamental principle of not exceeding the 3% threshold in the coming year GDP and deficit reduction in the following years. Therefore, there is no contradiction here, and if there is no contradiction, this rule actually allows this purpose to be maintained. And I think... I don't know if I've answered all your Marshal's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u214	Mr. Marshal? [[Yes, thank you very much.]] Do any of you want to ask any more questions? Thank you very much, then. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Thank you very much. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Leszek Skiba: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Tax Administration Act and the Act amending the Tax Order and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print no. 32 and the committee's report In print No 32 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Yesterday, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance gave its opinion on the amendment of the Tax Administration Act and the Act on the amendment of the Tax Order and some other laws. The Commission, by a majority of 6 votes in favour, with 2 abstentions, adopted a favourable opinion and recommended that this law be adopted without amendment. This is a bill tabled by a group of Members. At a committee meeting, the Legislative Bureau orally raised some objections to it. They were two areas... But maybe a few more words about what this bill is about. That's where I should start. It concerns two cases. Its main element is the transfer of the entry into force of the Tax Administration Act of 1 January 2016 to 1 July 2016. It's kind of the clou of this bill. Consequently, also in Article. The tax ruling on tax interpretations is being amended. She introduces one more element, namely that it allows the heads of tax offices to make certain agreements with local government units. This is mainly about the possibility of tax enforcement by tax authorities for garbage charges, as enforcement by tax authorities is more effective than execution by municipalities. Like I said, the Legislative Bureau raised some kind of objection to this bill. They're kind of two areas. One is a reservation concerning the date of entry into force. That is, once again, the term for the Senate to review this law is being shortened and the deadline for the President is being reduced, because in order for this law to enter into force, it must be published by 31 December 2015. Another condition raised by the Legislative Office was that the laws should not be changed during the vacathio legis period. Some kind of substantive objection has also been raised. They also covered two areas. Following the transfer of the entry into force of the Tax Administration Act of 1 January to 1 July, these comments concluded that there may be some kind of inaccuracies in the issuance of interpretations, individual tax interpretations. The legislators in the Sejm, the applicants in the Sejm, tried to solve this problem in the article. Two of these laws. The Minister stated that these records sufficiently secure the interests of the Ministry of Finance, but the legislators had a slightly different opinion. So much for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u216	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Marian Banaś: If you don't mind...]] The Ministry of Finance represents Minister Marian Banaś. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Ministry of Finance and the Government, I would like to stress that there is a need to amend this law for obvious reasons. Well, the signals we received from the tax offices are clear and clear, and it turns out that at this stage these offices are not prepared to carry out the tasks that have been set out in this law. It was therefore necessary to postpone this deadline. The main task of the Ministry is to ensure the collection of budgetary claims. Therefore, we could not afford that, in a situation where there could actually be a misorganization of work, mainly in IT systems, because they play a very important role here, it was first decided by Members who had received such information from the tax offices, and then we... All the legislation, the whole procedure took place in accordance with the rules in force. The comments made by the legislators are merely comments, they themselves stressed that this does not stop the law and that this does not mean that it should not be adopted. It was simply their comments, also in the case of vacathio legis in the case of the date on which the President signed the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u218	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Minister, thank you very much. [[Undersecretaries of State in the Ministry of Finance Marian Banas: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. There are no conclusions either. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 33 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 33 A and 33 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jack Włosowicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Infrastructure Commission yesterday discussed the draft amendments to the This is a dozen changes, one is fundamental. It is intended to move the introduction of the Central Vehicle and Driver Registration system to 1 January 2017. This is due to the fact that the activity of changes to this law took place in two areas. The first is typically IT, i.e. changing the entire application, and the second is legal. As far as the first area is concerned, the application is still at the test stage, but in the second area, there are dozens of regulations missing. Therefore, it appears to be completely unrealistic for this application to operate correctly from 1 January 2016. And maybe two words about this application, i.e. the CEPiK 2.0 system: which main elements changes, what new ones brings. Firstly, it improves the quality of the data collected. This improvement will be based on the fact that the elders who collect such data will directly and without delay pass them on to this system, which means the system will operate online. Secondly, the new application will contain more information than the current one. In particular, when it comes to vehicles, there will be more data on damage; this information will be obtained from both insurers and diagnostics. Thirdly, the data acquisition mode will be introduced only in electronic form, not as it is now, that written mode is also acceptable. Fourthly, there will be such an important change in the species of those that will be introduced and which are already being introduced, namely e-services for citizens, for entrepreneurs. They're here now, but it's going to be extended. It's gonna be like this. such a service as a safe bus saw since the beginning of this application was more than 0.5 million access to this site. If you consider that these works are not completed and that they are significantly delayed, it is perfectly justified to postpone the introduction of this application. And the proposed deadline is 1 January 2017. The Infrastructure Commission also gave this draft opinion. The vote was unanimous.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u220	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, which discussed the Law amending the Law on Road Traffic and certain other laws, took place today. The Commission unanimously supported the proposal to adopt the proposed law without amendment. In the Sejm it was also adopted unanimously, 441 Members were in favour, 1 against. As my esteemed predecessor has already informed, this law concerns the Central Registration of Vehicles and Drivers. The implementation of this system, the preparation of it, has been going on for many years. It is a large, complex undertaking and unfortunately the system is not yet ready to function. It follows from this conclusion This is a parliamentary request. In order to postpone the introduction of the scheme by one year. On behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I ask the honourable House to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u222	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u223	Senators of the rapporteur! Of course, it is necessary to extend the time for the change in question by one year, there is no doubt. You just said that the technical site... You said that not all regulations were issued. We know that they could theoretically be issued, but in general the most important are technical issues. Because these works have been going on for a long time, and they concern 380 counties, how many vehicle control stations, driver training centers, so that we have many partners here. I have a question for you... Because what I'm saying is that in a couple of months, we don't have to have that problem again, we're gonna have to move. I'd like to ask what's going on in the county. I mean integration tests, piloting. Do we have any idea that there are already some counties in the region that are well prepared, so that it would be possible to introduce this system? During the implementation of such changes there are always some districts or municipalities that are a little apart from the others and cannot keep up. Therefore, my question is: do we know what this situation looks like today? And possibly Are integration tests already carried out?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u224	Please, which one of you wants to answer? [[I think you're the senator, because it was said at the committee meeting...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u225	Mr Senator, as regards the question asked, there was no detailed information at the meeting of the council committee so that you could answer your question. So I would ask you to redirect this question to the representatives of the government who will be reporting on the subject in a moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u226	Thank you very much. Are there any questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? No. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Come on in. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is represented by Minister Tomasz Zdzikot. Welcome. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Well, we have already discussed the project discussed here, the meeting of the Senate Committee on Infrastructure. I would like to extend this statement slightly, in response to Senator Flork's question, and say that the integration tests of applications enabling the CepiK 2.0 system to be started The current legal situation is that the CEPiK 2.0 system is still in place. should act on 4 January, so that the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration is obliged to carry out any work which, in the event of Parliament's failure to adopt this law as a parliamentary request, could lead to this system working. Part of the integration tests didn't start until December. An example of December 15, 9 December Or November. The project raises great concerns from the social partners, especially from the local government. As for the implementation of the system in the counties... Like the senator said, this applies to 380 counties. Our intention as the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, though... In the Seym at the moment, a draft law on amendments to the Government Administration Departments Act is being examined at first reading, according to which the administrator of state registers will be a minister competent for informationization. So why don't I just say a little bit in this context... The intention is not only to formally carry out these integration tests, but to be able to value them so that the results of these tests can be the basis for possible improvements and improvements. The software provider, which supports both powiats and WORD, is PWPW, i.e. Polska Wytwórnia Papierów Wartościowych. These tests are underway right now. I, of course, can't tell you about the results of these tests yet, but it seems clear that in the event of a delay in the entry into force of the CEPiK 2.0 project by 12 months, these tests will be valid and we will be able to implement corrective solutions if necessary. Various proposals were made in the public domain to postpone this deadline. Mr. Senator pointed out, asked if there would be any need for another shift... Various proposals were made in the public domain to change the date of entry into force of the CEPiK 2.0 project. . I know the proposals for a three-month shift, five-month, six-month... It seems that the proposal contained in the parliamentary draft law concerning the twelve-month shift of entry into force of this project is a safe proposal. She will guarantee that the project will be prepared correctly and in consultation with the social partners, which has been repeatedly requested by the Polish County Association in recent writings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u228	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators wish to ask such questions? I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. He informs us that Senator Dowhan has made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of point seven... [[Why don't we take a break?]] Now? [[Now which point? How long is it gonna be?]] Seven, short... [[Voice from the hall: There is no Minister because he is in the Seym.]] [[There isn't?]] There isn't. [[Then we'll have to take a break.]] How long? [[Well, an hour.]] I'm calling an hour off until 5:00. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 59 to 16 minutes 59]] I'm reopening the session. In view of the ongoing meeting of the Legislative Commission, I am extending the period until 5.30 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 59 to 17 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u229	I'm reopening the session. I'm extending my break until 6:00 p.m. The committee is still in session. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 31 to 18 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system. The text of the Act is contained in print No 34 and the committee's report in print No 34 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to report on the Law on the amendment of the Law on the shaping of the agricultural system adopted by the Sejm on 16 December 2015. The committee was sitting today. There's been a discussion. The law is very short. It contains two articles. First, concerning the article. 26, states that the Act enters into force on 1 May 2016. This is a delay... The second, also very short, says that the law, this amendment, enters into force on 31 December 2015. I think the discussion that took place confirmed the unanimous agreement of the committee on the adoption of the law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u231	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Zbigniew Babalski is with us. Minister? Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u232	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! High Senate! The bill is actually extremely simple, uncomplicated. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, I have the honour to present his position. This position is in line with the position of the Sejm and the Senate Committee, which was held today. This time until 1 May is needed only so that the law, which is to enter into force on 1 January 2016, can be modified so that we can make it to 1 May. During this four-month period, there will be consultations, meetings with the ladies and senators on the committee. Please accept the position of the Government and postpone this deadline to 1 May, supporting the entry into force of this Law on 31 December. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u233	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the law amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 39 and the committee's report in print No 39 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Waldemar Kraska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. High Senate! On behalf of the Senate Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report on the committee meeting which took place today on the law amending the Law on the amendment of the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Commission proposes that the High Senate adopt the draft resolution contained in Senate printing No 39 A. Ms. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the bill is to postpone the contractual period for medical services to 30 June 2017. This shift will not take place automatically, it requires the action of interested parties, i.e. on the one hand, the proposals of the directors of the voivodship's departments of the National Health Fund, and on the other hand the consent of the healthcare providers. Why is this bill so important, and why are we introducing it? Firstly, the so-called ones are not yet developed. maps of health needs, which, according to our opinion, are intended to rationalise and make health care more effective in Poland and lead to effective public spending for health protection. It is clear that the new contracting process should be carried out after the adoption of such maps of health needs. The second condition is that there is a need for critical verification as regards the valuation of medical procedures, which in the current state are criticised by many environments and are, according to them, inadequate to the needs. The third reason why this law needs to be introduced is that the contracting process should provide steering and good organisation and good preparation of this process. In addition, the draft contains a deadline of 1 July 2016 for new contracting rules, contracting methods and scope. During the meeting of the Committee on Health, the majority of the committee decided to vote on the proposal that the High Senate should adopt this resolution without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u235	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Piotr Gryza is with us. Minister, are you... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: Yes, if...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u236	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! (PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, From the point of view of the Minister of Health, this bill is valid and necessary. In fact, you have already said all the important things to the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u237	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator. Minister, I would like to invite you very cordially because there are questions for the Minister. Mr. Senator, wait a minute. Mr. Tomasz Grodzki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have a brief question for the Minister. Whether this date, to which the period of de facto annexation of contracts is extended, i.e. half of 2017, is the date chosen arbitraryly, whether there is any calendar of actions that requires choosing this date, not e.g. January, February, October or December?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u239	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a year's shift. This is the time to prepare in a competent manner the things mentioned by the President, in particular to draw up regulations on the criterion for assessing offers and to deal with maps of health needs, a process which is linked to these maps. So to answer directly, I can say that if we moved this term e.g. about six months, if after the adoption of the new law this deadline was postponed only by six months, we would just miss it because the matter is very serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u240	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you like to ask a question? You're welcome, Senator. Senator Piotr Florek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u241	Minister, I'd like to ask. Always the best contracting date is January 1, because the least problems are when we start from the new year. You were talking about a map of health needs. As I recall, this map of health needs is being prepared by the Ministry of Health. There, when it comes to the first map, I think it's set, if I remember correctly, on April 1st next year. Given that there's still a lot of time until December, I don't know if we should consider... Because the deadline set for 1 January in connection with the settlement of the whole year is always more secure and better, like starting a contract in the middle of the year. I understand. This is the result of the Minister's statement. The concern is that it is simply not possible because it will not be made until 1 January, and that is why I believe that this is a worse term set in the middle of the year. But all I meant was to confirm whether these maps of health needs are also an obstacle so that this deadline is not set for January 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u242	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It just so happens that I acted at the beginning of the system of universal health insurance and was among others the organizer and the first director of the Mazovian health insurance fund, and also managed such a body governing the system, i.e. the Health Insurance Authority. So that I can also say from my own experience that the date of contracting benefits at the end of the year is the worst date. It is much better if this date falls within a year, because it is the end of the year that is the uproar of all possible matters to be dealt with. So it's okay for the contract to take place within a year. It's like an answer from a practical position. The map is supposed to be a basis for contracting health services, and this is something that we all need to learn, because it needs to be developed in a competent way, and then it needs to be applied in life. And, ladies and gentlemen, the situation here is that the root of the problem of health maps or of the thing that is often said, which is the national network of hospitals that we are not talking about here in the legal system, is that someone is not going to be there, that one of the medicinal products is not going to be there. Therefore, the responsibility for the preparation of such regulatory instruments is very high and this should be done in a balanced and responsible manner.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u244	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of you like to ask the Minister another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Thank you, Minister. Senator Tomasz Grodzki, please take the floor. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! These concerns, which the Minister was seeking to articulate, are, of course, to a large extent justified, but let us look at them from the sick side. The joke is, they're not healthy, they're just poorly diagnosed. And many of us, if not everyone, will use the health system sooner or later. I share the opinion of Minister Radziwiłł that our work is by Mr. President, Mr. Marshal This is the service of the sick. And sick people can't wait forever. And here we have to say that since 2013 agreements with health professionals have not been negotiated, there is only a negotiation of the financial annex, and this Petrifies the system, which is very dynamic, because medicine is very dynamic, medicine is developing. Since then, new troops have appeared, some hospitals have expanded, others have decreased, new procedures have appeared in the POZ, the whole system is moving forward dynamically, and we are continuing to petrify it forever. We are aware of all, regardless of party colors, because sick of these party colors There isn't. The fact that this system is not perfect and we all want to improve it, while we are freezing the system de facto for the next year and a half, because it will only be an annexation of the financial annex. Theoretically, it is possible to contract new entities, but as for what it looks like in practice, you will allow me to read a letter which is normally sent by NFZ troops in many places in the country. Until now, the date of freezing of the contract was 30 June 2016, but now we want to extend this time by another year. When as a hospital that grew out of public money This was not the case for profitable areas, but for areas needed: pulmonology, treatment of tuberculosis, treatment of pathological obesity. We apply for a new contract, we get a standard letter, I quote it in a nutshell: The NFZ informs that it does not provide for the possibility of increasing the contract, and the proposal sent is a final proposal for the period until 30 June 2016. Now they're just gonna change the date and send us letters back to 2017. So, I appeal to you, I realise that this is the work that the Minister was talking about, it is not an easy matter, because there is no perfect health system in the world. That putting some time pressure on yourself... Here I declare, for my part, on the part of probably all doctors, any help to make the health system better faster. And this small step, the new contracting of benefits, is one of the elements of making this system better. And I call on everyone to impose a fast pace of work and finish this work by the end of 2016. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the whole year of God! That is why I allowed myself, Mrs Marshal, to propose an amendment to change the date of the amendment: from 30 June 2017 to 31 December 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u246	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Tomasz Grodzki. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on... Uh-huh. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Piotr Gryza: If possible, yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u247	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Senator, We have already had the pleasure of discussing this at the Senate Committee meeting. To show you a class of problem, I would like to say that if the criteria for evaluating offers are poorly prepared and we announce a competition for offers, it may be that your hospital, Mr. Senator, is not on this list. It's not like the competitions... Of course, it's individual. When we announce a contest, we know it's... I mean, the National Health Fund is announcing a contest. The idea is to satisfy this or give patients the possibility of securing a certain amount of benefits. But a competition in a full system is such a risk. Yes? Well, it may be that if the criteria are poorly developed, this hospital will not be included in the list of entities to be selected. This is, unfortunately, the risk of such a system. And we need to be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u248	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Riposta.]] But, Senator, the discussion is already closed. [[Excuse me...]] [[Voice in the room: In the committee.]] [[There's no such thing. There's no return.]] [[Go over to the minister and talk to him.]] Senator, come to the Minister and ask... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice in the room: In the committee.]] You were already discussing this at the committee meeting. The discussion is closed. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code. The text of the Act is contained in print No 35 and the Commission's reports in print No 35 A and 35 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Grzegorz Pekkis, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u249	The purpose of the law adopted by the Sejm on 16 December amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code is to extend until 31 December 2017 the period within which the municipality is required to provide rent-payers with a regulated replacement space and to cover the removal costs due to the need for renovation or demolition of the building, which requires emptying. I couldn't have put it better. That's why I read it. Following sound and substantive deliberations and, in principle, a very low discussion, the committee calls for a vote in favour of the law without amendments. I'll give you a heads-up on where these dates come from, and why we're only extending the protection period by two years. Because the problem that is being considered, the problem of protecting tenants, is complicated. Originally, there was a proposal to extend this period to 10 years. This period is reduced to 2 years, because this problem will have to be dealt with. The legislator is of the opinion that two years will be enough to offer a solution. The situation is that the tenants are transferred to the municipality, that is, we charge the municipality costs and do not give it the means to do so. This is because the municipalities receive a tenant to whom they are supposed to provide a replacement place, an apartment, but there are no means to do so. And the entity that owns the apartment for renovation or demolition, e.g. After the renovation of these residents, he does not accept the return because there is no obligation. About the cost... At the committee meeting it was said that significant costs, e.g. removals, are currently on the side of the commune. In view of these doubts, the legislator is of the opinion that two years will be enough to propose a solution. That's basically it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u250	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour, on behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, to present the position of the committee reached at its meeting today. As regards the substantive issues and the purpose of amending this law, my esteemed previous speaker presented them. As far as the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration is concerned, the committee has decided to adopt this law without amendments, but by 6:3. Because, at this committee meeting, it was also proposed to amend and extend the period envisaged by the law from 2 years to 5 years... This proposal was rejected by the committee, hence my proposal, which I make on behalf of the committee, to adopt this law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u252	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Augustine. Which one of you gentlemen? [[Both gentlemen.]] Both, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u253	I am interested in whether there were representatives of the municipal authorities concerned during the committee's deliberations and whether the committees had opinions, for example. Association of Polish Cities or associations of municipalities, local corporations in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u254	As regards the local government committee, firstly, there were no representatives of the local government, and secondly, there were no such votes or requests from other institutions in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u255	Thank you very much. Any of you... Yes? Please. [[Similarly, the Committee on Infrastructure...]] You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u256	In that case, I would like to know if the committee's meeting presented an estimate of the costs that local authorities would have to bear as a result of the extension of this period. Because as we know, if the government can't guarantee people who are evicted, who aren't paying rent, it has to pay for rent, for example. in an apartment rented in a cooperative or in developers, so the extension of this state means that local authorities continue to bear the costs. Was the amount of these costs notified to the members of the committee? And how much is that?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u257	It's exactly what the senator said, except, Mr. Senator, a representative of the ministry sitting there, under the chandelier, I'm sorry that so... a representative of the ministry pointed out... That question arose, that is a logical question. You're right, senator, that's a logical question. That question was answered and it was answered that local governments have no obligation... to divide the people they grant the apartments to due to the reasons for granting the apartment. In other words, for this reason, the purpose of the building e.g. to renovate and check out or get the residents out... Self-governments do not conduct classifications in this way, so they are unable to estimate costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u258	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of you like to ask the senators of the rapporteurs another question? No. Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Construction, is in the Chamber. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Maybe some historical information first. In 2001, the Act on the protection of tenants introduced a five-year period as regards the obligation for municipalities to provide replacement premises in the situations described in Article. 32. This was extended by 10 years in 2005, until 2015. In August of this year, the Civic Platform Club in the Sejm applied for an extension of this obligation for an indefinite period of time. The justification was a number of tasks, which indicated that this did not have any financial implications for the state budget, but that the costs which would arise or could arise on the part of local governments could not be estimated. From the information I obtained in the Ministry, it appeared that the Polish Districts Association was negative about this and there was no other correspondence. Since Members of the Civic Platform withdrew this request from the Sejm at the end of September, he was not considered and the current Sejm faced a dilemma, whether he really left it so that this obligation would end on 31 December or try to do so. The members of the Law and Justice Club have requested that this be extended for another 10 years, assuming that this problem will actually be resolved within the next 10 years. During the debate in committees and in the sitting room, an auto-correction was made to reduce this period to 2 years. I, on behalf of the government, have made a declaration that at this time we will conduct a detailed consultation of local governments and try to determine possible costs that would be on the part of local governments. Because there are really no instruments today, local governments do not have a separate record of the costs associated with the provision of replacement premises. But it has to be admitted that during these 15 years this problem has been radically reduced. From the information we received by phone during the debate from local governments, it appeared that, for example, 5 or 7 premises were delivered in Gdańsk in the last year, in Warsaw it was 40 replacement locations, in Łódź probably dozens, and in some cities no replacement premises were delivered at all. But the fact that we know there were 50 or 5 locations... These are replacement premises delivered by the municipality, but as a result of various responsibilities, among others. arising from Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2013 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. So I have declared and continue to declare that we will do this work. We will also turn to the committee of the common government and the local government to begin work on the amendment of this law. Because I am aware that the government is aware that in connection with the functioning of this law there are some pathologies, irregularities, e.g. on the part of the owners who intentionally cause degradation of their substance of a building or apartment In order to obtain a demolition or repair order, the tenant is disposed of and the municipality must provide a replacement, but the situation is that the replacement is supplied permanently. So after the building has been renovated or after the new owner has been built, it remains without these tenants. So we want to try to prepare a legal solution that says that the owner would be obliged not to accept tenants but to offer a place after renovation to his former tenants, because it is known that this place already has a different standard. It is known that higher, it is not the slightest doubt, because it is e.g. new home So the rent will be higher. But I think there should be a solution that these tenants have the right to go back to where they were evicted. The question to consider is whether the costs that the municipality must bear in connection with the move should be borne by the municipality or the owner. As this problem had not arisen until November, there was no way that the government could solve it in the form of a government submission. We were warned by the Members who made such a request. Therefore, there was not even an attempt to examine what these costs were, and even if they were, it would not be possible. That's why we agreed as a government and supported the proposal to make it two years. During these two years, we will propose a revision of the bill, but we also do not want only and exclusively If I may, Mrs Marshal, I will say two more sentences, but I will limit myself to this one amendment, because there are also several other amendments related to this law. We would like to propose new solutions for this law and among others. submit a solution to this problem as well. I'm sure in two years this problem won't go away, we're aware of that. As long as we do not have an average European number of apartments, this problem will exist. We're assuming he'll be gone in the next 10 years. And whether it's two years or five years now, the problem isn't going to go away. I would have brought it to the High House, but I would have kept this 2-year period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u260	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Piotr Florek has signed up. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It is important that the law is stable so that it is not changed too often. I remember. There's a lot of self-government in the room. As it was with the Municipalization Act. You remember how this wealth of the state was transferred to the local government, it was going to last a year, two or three, and until today, at the request of us, we are still communalizing the wealth of the state, it is going on for many, many years. Similarly, as the Minister said, with the 2001 Act. First for 5 years, then an extension for 10 years, and, as it turns out, in the previous term of the Sejm, there was a proposal to extend this indefinitely. As we now have a new term of office for the Sejm, the proposal has been made to postpone this deadline by 10 years. During the work in the Seym, it turned out that it was changed to 2 years. So we now have a revised law on the protection of the rights of tenants, the housing stock of the municipality and the amendment of the Civil Code, which shows that this date is 31 December 2017. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we need to look a little bit at the fact that we have, like, three entities to reconcile. Someone pays the rent regulated, we have the owner of the property and we still have a local government that also has to bear certain costs in case we are dealing with the renovation or demolition of a given premises. And, of course, the government would be interested not to bear the costs. Not every government has the spare premises at its disposal, but the scale of this is not as large as the Minister just explained to us. In turn we have tenants who pay the regulated rent, therefore the owner is in some way limited Because the tenant pays a certain amount of rent And not so much and can't always invest. And we also have real estate owners. There are a lot of cases where, as part of a separate procedure, they recover the property and find the condition they find. It's been a little loud lately, cleaning the tenements... And that's my point. I, at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, tabled an amendment to reconsider whether this 2-year period... the Minister himself just said that this problem will not be resolved for two years. You could possibly try it some way, like you said... So that when the tenant was renovated, he could go back to where he used to live. Well, there are various proposals that can, of course, be considered and considered. But a period of 2 years is a rather short period. And I'm afraid that especially property owners in a situation where they have a clear... To date, it was rather certain that this law would be extended either indefinitely or for a long time. Now that we have clear information, there's a record of 2 years in the bill, it could cause property owners to want e.g. use this time and speed up these renovations, and you may find that these replacements will need much more. And so it is worth wondering whether the term 2 years first we said that without time, then 10 years, now 2 years However, it is not too short because the work related to the amendment of the law on the protection of the rights of tenants will continue. If not 10 years, because it's too long, then change that term. I've tabled such an amendment. For a period of 5 years, i.e. until 31 December 2020. I think it would be such a deadline that there wouldn't be any big rush, the owners of the premises wouldn't have to rush, and in the meantime we could change the bill. Acting like this, not the other way around, as the Minister said... Because if we extend it for two years, and it is still known that there will be no change in time, then we will have to regulate the issues discussed here for the following years in some other way. It seems to me that this longer period is safer and better, as at this time you will be able to think and make these changes. I'm so... Since, at the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, this amendment did not pass, I again submit, in writing, an amendment to the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants and the Housing Resources of the Municipality and on the Change of the Civil Code. The amendment concerns the fact that in the article. 1 replace by "31 December 2020." ♪ Resume ♪ To extend for a period of 5 years... This is the kind of middle-up between the local government, which is not interested, would prefer to end this as soon as possible, tenants who can sometimes be evicted on the pavement, may be different situations, and owners who on the one hand have an interest in improving the housing stock, and on the other hand have regulated rents that are not affected. So, in my opinion, it would be a middle-up. And over the five years, this could lead to the right solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u262	The senator has this amendment in writing, right? [[Yeah, yeah, I'll make it.]] I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. [[There you go.]] I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Piotr Florek. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u263	If it's okay, it's okay. However, I maintain that the duration of this solution should be 2 years, because if we assume that it will be 5 years, the local authorities will not receive any compensation for any costs incurred for 5 years. And at that time there will be no need to amend this law. Well, we're assuming that in five years' time, the problem here will be gone. So I believe that this 2-year period should, however, be sustained. And in those two years, we're going to make a proposal. Either the problem discussed here will be solved, that is to say, a lot of housing will be built, or local authorities will have to be compensated for the costs they incur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u264	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: a law amending the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 38 and the report of the Commission In print No 38 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u265	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on the Environment a report on the Act amending the Act amending the Act on the provision of environmental information and its protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments and certain other laws. At its meeting on 16 December, the Environment Commission adopted, with two abstentions, a proposal to adopt a law without amendment. My previous speaker said that it would be good for the adopted law to be stable and not often changed. In this case, if the Sejm had not changed this law, it would have led to very far-reaching negative effects. Negative effects on the State Forests and negative effects on farmers who have their farms within the area of Nature 2000. It so happens that the law adopted at the end of the previous term of office resulted in the fact that both the foresight and the farmers I mentioned earlier would have to obtain decisions from the regional environmental directorate, agreements on all the measures taken in its area. This would lead to paralysis of activities in these two areas, because the foresight in our country is 430 and imagine that each of these foresights would lead to a request to the regional directorate of the State Forests to agree on their decisions. And these decisions are made a few thousand a year. Therefore, Members have tabled a bill which we, as the Committee on the Environment... The bill was passed by the 16th Seym... oh, my God, what month is it? [[Voice from the room: December.]] December 16th. And the committee also proposes that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u266	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski from the Ministry of Environment is with us. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of the Environment strongly supports the amendment of this law, namely the extension of the vacathio legis of the provisions on the need to obtain derogations and derogations from the prohibition in relation to activities carried out in national forests in relation to protected species. As the senator said, if this proposed amendment of the law is not adopted, from the new year practically the entire forest economy will be The Regional Environment Directorates will be blocked by thousands of requests for derogation from bans and derogations. And this is because this law in its previous term of office was in such a hurry that no procedures or implementing acts were created. The regulation was not adopted and signed by the Minister, in accordance with those provisions which we are now talking about amending here, the amending regulation on the protection of species of birds and animals. Vacatio legis will allow such a regulation to be issued, adapted to the rules that will apply if adopted, from 2017. And we also need to establish appropriate procedures in the regional environmental directorates and in the State Forests to ensure that all of this becomes operational in accordance with the new rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u268	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: Thank you.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. Please, Minister, please come to the podium. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u269	Minister, please inform us whether this project is compatible with EU law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u270	This project is compatible with European Union law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u271	I will allow myself, Minister, to recall your opinion, which is in the sejm materials, and the conclusion is: it is incompatible with European Union law. What's the truth?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u272	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u273	It is true that this law is compatible with European Union law. Why? When the draft of this law was proceded in the previous term, in its original version all the provisions, including those we are talking about today, were to enter into force on 1 January 2017. It was only during the second reading in the committee that an amendment was tabled, according to which only the three provisions on which we are leaning today enter into force on 1 January 2016. And then There's documents for that, we've been analyzing it. It was consistent, wasn't it? If this was originally compatible with Union law, why should it be incompatible now? We do not introduce rules that are incompatible with EU law, but we introduce vacathio legis for rules that are compatible with European Union law. As the European Union has requested, Because we are unable to prepare procedures and to proceed within such a short period of time with the regulation I mentioned earlier. Moreover, there is another very important issue, since the European Commission has pointed out to us that we have these provisions not adapted to the Birds and Habitats Directive, it has indicated that we have to adapt them, but it has not set a deadline for this adjustment. And that's how it looks. As I say, originally all the provisions of this law, all articles were to enter into force on 1 January 2017. At the time, the opinion of the legislators in the Sejm was that the law was compatible with European law. So why would she be incompatible now? [[The contents of the Act have not changed, only the date of entry into force has changed.]] Yeah, just the date of entry into force.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u274	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u275	The Minister says that the original text of the bill was in line with European law, and I read the opinion signed by the head of the Sejm Office and its conclusion, which is simply the opposite, so please excuse me... [[What is the date of this opinion?]] ...but I would like to know if this opinion, which I have read, concerns another draft, other legislation. Has the provisions been amended and it can be said today that this conclusion from the opinion of the head of the Sejm Office is inappropriate? I'm trying to understand. This opinion refers to the original draft. The Minister just said that this original project was in line with EU law, but the opinion is about the original project... [[But he's the same.]] ...and clearly determines that it's incompatible, and it's hard for me to understand. [[Mr. Senator, you'll be so kind as to state the date of this document if you have...]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, you'll be able to ask a question in a moment.]] I would very much ask for a clear explanation of the situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u276	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u277	In our view, this law is in line with European Union law. As I say, with this amendment, we are returning to the original version of this law, which was examined in the previous term of office... [[Government flooring.]] And she was in line with EU law. [[If I understand the minister well, your marshal will allow me to ask you a question, then there have been changes that...]] [[Date of entry into force. Excuse me, Miss Marshal.]] This is merely a change of the date of entry into force, and the content of this law, which is now being processed, is in line with the original content of the Act which was being examined in the previous term of office.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u278	Mrs Marshal, this opinion does indeed question the provision on the deadline. Does the Minister therefore have an opinion on this matter? [[Oh, Jesus!]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Environment Andrzej Schweda-Lewandowski: I do not understand.]] As regards the compatibility of the law with European Union law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u279	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u280	As I say, we have analyzed this in the Ministry and in our opinion it is compatible.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u281	Thank you. The Minister has already answered the question. Do any of you have any more questions for the Minister? You're welcome. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u282	Short question, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I understand that the document you were talking about is known to you. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u283	Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u284	Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. Do any of you have another question for the Minister? Thank you. I don't see any calls. I'm opening a discussion. Would any of you like to speak in the discussion? I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to inform you that tomorrow we will resume the session at 10 a.m. after the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the establishment of 2016 by Henryk Sienkiewicz. If no amendments are tabled to the draft resolution, we shall proceed to the vote on this matter immediately after consideration. And now I'm announcing a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u285	The meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law amending the Law on the provision of public-funded health care and certain other laws, Senate Printing No 39, will take place today immediately after the end of the sitting in room 182. The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of proposals submitted in the course of the debate on the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the revision of the Civil Code, No. 35, will take place tomorrow, i.e. 18 December 2015, at 8.30 a.m. in room No. 183.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-senat-05-1.u286	Thank you very much. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 18 minutes 57]]
