ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u1	I open the seventh sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland IX term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] I will appoint Senator Marek Pęk and Senator Waldemar Sługocki as the Secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Waldemar Sługocki. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. I would like to inform you that the Sejm at its seventh meeting on 29 December 2015 adopted all the amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Energy Efficiency Act and the only amendment of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources and the Act on Energy Law. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the second meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the third Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider point one of the draft agenda, although the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the Act on Tax on Certain Financial Institutions was submitted at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that there was a law on amending the Civil Service Act and some other laws which had not been adopted by the Sejm on the draft agenda sent to you. If it is adopted by the Sejm at this sitting and a committee report is prepared on this matter, the agenda will be supplemented by this law. In addition, the agenda may be supplemented by a law amending the Radio and Television Act in the event of its adoption by the Sejm at its present meeting. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Law on the Education System and some other laws, and to consider it as a point of the second agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask you to consider the Act on Tax on Certain Financial Institutions as item two of the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u3	First, we have to approve the agenda. [[I'm sorry, I hurried...]] Is there an objection to my motion? Senator Klich, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, after Christmas. Mr Marshal proposed to include on the agenda a law which is of great importance for the education system in Poland, for the education of our children, for their upbringing and competition, which they will have to meet on the European Union market and even wider. However, the committee, as Mr Wind informed me, received no expertise, no opinions and did not carry out any From the moment of the transmission of the bill from the Sejm No consultations on this matter. I mark, there were no opinions, no expertise, no analyses in connection with the law in such a fundamental matter as the upbringing of our children and in some cases also grandchildren. Meanwhile, various institutions are calling us Some of them were represented today during the committee's deliberations, some spoke in writing with requests, and in such a clear tone, to consult this draft law. I mean here, among other things. letter from the Polish Districts Association or the position of the Polish Teachers Association. I am convinced that these and other opinions, if there were enough time to get acquainted with them, would either verify the opinion of the Senate majority or would lead to a change in the opinion of the Senate minority, would in any case allow a rational debate on this subject. And that's why I'm asking you not to bring this item into the Senate's session, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u5	Thank you very much. [[About the corrigendum, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Senator Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u6	Because my name has been mentioned here, I would like to correct Senator Klich's statement. I would like to say that Senator Klich, at the meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, asked me for my opinion and my full answer was that the committee does not normally ask for such opinions and expertise. According to many years of practice, the only opinion used by the committee is the opinion of the Legal Office of the Senate Office. And such an opinion was not delivered. And when it comes to other expertise and analysis, as the senator said, there is no such practice or practice. We rely on what the Sejm is gathering, and we analyze it. So that's the full answer to Senator Klich's question I gave at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. [[I'd like to complete...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u8	I would also like to express my views on the same issue, namely not putting this item on the agenda. It's about the bill... [[Mr. Senator, there was my motion, there was an objection by Senator Klich, so we will settle this in the vote.]] Yeah, except I was chair of the local government committee, and I'd like to say just... [[Yeah, but this isn't a discussion...]] It's not a discussion, it's just a matter, I think, of a formal nature. It's a formal matter. [[But what's your formal conclusion, Senator?]] It's a formal conclusion not to put this point in order.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u9	Good. And we'll settle this in the form of a vote. It was my motion... [[But I would like to justify in two sentences, Mr. Marshal...]] Mr Senator, but you do not have to make this formal request because I have applied for an extension of the agenda and you have previously objected, so we will vote on this proposal. [[Yeah, but I'd like to...]] Thank you very much. We're coming... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm very sorry, but I'd like to add, because the chairman of the education committee has said...]] [[This was the correction of my misquoted statement.]] Yes, but Senator Wind spoke in correction mode. Senator Klich referred to his statement. [[I would like to take the floor, as chairman, on the addition of...]] But to supplement what? [[Complement Senator Klich's request...]] But this is my conclusion. [[No, Senator Klich's objection...]] Senator Klich was objecting to my motion. This is my conclusion... [[But opposition can also be justified.]] That objection has already been justified by Senator Klich. We proceed with the vote, Mr. Senator... [[Why, you can't?]] Senator Rulewski, please. [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] [[Voice from the room: After all, we are voting.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I accuse the Marshal that you have put a motion for the higher chamber of parliament, the Senate to put on the agenda for a change, a fundamental amendment to the law on the education system, which mainly includes local authorities. The charge is that you have presented your proposal to the High House without consulting the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. This is a formal requirement, which I believe you have ignored. That's why I'm asking you to introduce this point, you can... [[Voice from the hall: This concerns government projects.]] The aim is to discuss this only after obtaining the opinion of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. [[Voice from the room: On what grounds?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I see, Mr President, Mr Wind, that your nerves are getting cold feet. I want to reassure you. The fact that the project is parliamentary or even senate does not exempt from the obligation to notice that there is a local government in this country.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u11	Senator, I take your statement as a voice of objection to my motion. We are voting on my proposal. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: There is a formal conclusion...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice in the hall: There's a vote...]] We are voting on my proposal to extend the agenda. Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: The vote is on.]] The vote is on. Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: Well, that's the problem.]] Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 54 senators voted against, 24 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] The motion's been passed. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? [[Me.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u12	Mr. Marshal, I raised my hand before the vote, but you didn't want to look this way. I have a question about whether the committee's report has been submitted. That is what I would like to ask: has the committee's report been submitted? We can proceed with the inclusion on the agenda of the Senate of the Act when we have a committee report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] In my opinion... I'm informing you...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u13	I have been informed that the report has been delivered. [[It's still there?]] Yes. [[Voices from the hall: Where? There isn't.]] [[We're checking the Internet right now.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] [[So I'm asking for a five-minute break and a check...]] The reports are in prints 63 A and 63 B, Mr. Marshal. I'm asking you to check it out. Senator Bierecki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u14	Mr Marshal, I would like to make a formal request for consideration as point two of our agenda: the Act on Tax on Certain Financial Institutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u15	Is there any objection to Senator Bierecki's motion? [[Voice from the hall: What?]] To change the order: second point to look as the first point and the first point as the second point. [[Voice from the Chamber: But there is no report.]] But what report doesn't exist? There are reports in prints 63 A and 63 B.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u16	No one showed the report and therefore the opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u17	But it's on the Internet, really. You all have an iPad just to look at it. [[We're in the sitting room, not on the Internet, Mr. Marshal.]] But we all have iPads, Senator. And that's how prints are served, Senator. Is there any other vote on the agenda? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Rulewski is against Senator Bierecki's motion. [[Your interpretation, young and good marshal, indicates a lack of knowledge, because according to the Rules of Procedure, the report must be in writing.]] [[Voices from the hall: It doesn't have to, it doesn't have to.]] He doesn't have to. [[Not on the Internet.]] He doesn't have to, Senator. Okay, are you against Senator Bierecki's motion? [[Until the report is received.]] Good. We are voting on Senator Bierecki's motion. Who's in favor of Senator Bierecki's motion? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Fedorovich hasn't voted yet. [[I didn't vote out of my nerves.]] [[To the theater, Jurek.]] Oh, nervous. Please state the results of the vote. 54 senators voted against, 25 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] Senator Bierecki's motion has been accepted. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u18	On a formal matter, Mr. Marshal. We voted on a change of order... [[Yes.]] Have we voted on the introduction to this item? [[Voices from the hall: Yes! Yes!]] We did. Yes? If that's the case, that's good.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u19	I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland IX term. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate. High Izbo, I would like to remind you that at the previous meeting the Senate Marshal did not take into account the request of Senator Jan Rulewski to complete the agenda of the sixth Senate meeting to inform the President of the Council of Ministers of staff changes. The Senate Marshal addressed this request to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. This will be the subject of the committee's work. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 63 and the Commission's reports In prints No 63 A and 63 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Invited guests! I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the committee on which the law on the revision of the education system and certain other laws was discussed. The law was a parliamentary project which was adopted by the Sejm: 269 Members voted in favour, 17 abstained, 156 opposed. As far as this law is concerned, it contains the two most important solutions. The first solution, basic, fundamental, is to restore school duty for children aged 7 years. The second solution, the second most important substantive change, the second part of this law concerns pedagogical supervision, strengthens pedagogical supervision by educational authorities; I am referring here to the curator of education. As far as the first issue is concerned, this law, first of all, restores the school obligation for children aged 7 years. Secondly, the Act introduces an obligation to conduct annual pre-school pre-school preparation in the pre-school ward, called zerzeczka, for a child aged 6 years. Another right that is written is the right of a child at the age of 3 and 5 to benefit from preschool education. This law does not prohibit a child at the age of 6 from going to school. It assumes that only such conditions must be met, that before going to school at the age of 6 children must be one year in kindergarten or there must be a request from parents and an opinion from psychological and pedagogical counsellor on the possibility of starting school. Another provision, which is in the Act, gives the possibility that, at the request of parents, a child who went to school at the age of 6 will continue to study in the first grade in the following school year, provided that the application is submitted by 30 March next year. Another provision, which is very important, introduces the possibility of deferring the school obligation in the case of children who have a ruling on the need for special education up to the age of nine. One more very important issue is that the deadline for the conversion of pre-school units in primary schools into kindergarten from 1 September 2016 to 1 September 2019 should be postponed. As far as the second part of this law is concerned, it concerns pedagogical supervision. This is where the probation officer's position is restored and strengthened. The project assumes the responsibility of the State for education, expressed in the restoration of the curator's veto on the liquidation of schools. Another issue that concerns the curator is the opinion of the school network and the opinion of the work plans of teachers' institutions. These are the main issues, the main solutions that this law introduces. But the most important thing is that when sending children to school, parents decide, not the state, not the ministry, not even the highest rank official. At the same time, this bill does not eliminate what was before. After all, we remember how it was said, what great progress it would be, that so to speak, salvation for children when they started education at the age of 6. This bill does not eliminate it, but the decision whether a child is to start education at the age of 6 or 7 is a parent's choice. And that is the main message of this law. As far as the council committee is concerned, the committee is asking for a law without amendment. However, the decision was taken as a result of a vote which was not clear, since 6 senators were in favour of the bill, 5 were against. Besides, there will be a separate proposal, but this is another issue. On behalf of the committee of the local government, I request that this law be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Senator, I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration, Senator Piotr Ziientarski, to present a proposal for a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the council committee, which I have the honour of chairing, I argued that we were not prepared to carry out a serious examination and establish a proper position, an in-depth position, as would be expected from the Senate. Let me remind you, it was the opposition who fought... Although there have been cases But not that much, ladies and gentlemen. Without an opinion, not just a senate opinion, Senator... In fact, there was a practice that... although there were situations that we often invited to the committee's meeting. And it was basic practice. Interested parties. There was no time for that here. We got the footage a few hours before the committee meeting. So far, at least at the Seym stage, there have been expertise that we could appeal to. And here we have nothing. We do not have practically an opinion from the Sejm and we do not have an opinion from the Legislative Office, which always has been the way it would have had to have some time to prepare an opinion in writing. It wasn't a possibility here. Therefore, from this point of view, for the sake of respect for ourselves, for the Senate... Because either we're a sham of the Senate, or we're a House that's supposed to make a real reflection in the form of corrections. After all, we boasted that 86% Senate amendments were accepted by the Sejm, that in terms of terms of office... that 4 and 5 thousand of our Senate amendments were accepted by the Sejm just as a result of listening to the public, listening to the voices of the authorities, often in the case of our initiatives, changes to the original concepts because of respect for ourselves, the point being that our opinion should be serious. We didn't get that chance here. That's why I filed a motion for rejection... But I also submitted this request for substantive reasons, which we were able to get acquainted with, despite the lack of an opinion. At the meeting of the committee there was a representative of the county union and his opinion was definitely negative. I would stress that this is a committee of self-government. Here in my speech I would like to focus on the elements that are related to the essence of local government, both local government and government government. The assumptions for this change were included in the project of 4 December. And that is the substantive justification of our proposal. There have been many arguments of a social, organisational and financial nature against returning to the obligation for 7 years. The abolition of the 6-year-old child training obligation, which for the last two years has started on such a large scale in primary school for the first time, and leaving them in pre-school facilities will result in a significant reduction in the next school year and, in many cases, the access of 3-year-old children to pre-school education is completely prevented. Thus, local government units will not be able to fulfil their statutory task, which says that since September 2017 all parents of three-year-olds have the right to send these children to kindergarten. But my parents are doing this right now, and I know that about kindergarten, where... I have grandchildren at the age of six, and I know what the situation is, and I have contacts with kindergartens. Indeed, today at the committee meeting, we said that it was difficult to give precise figures regarding how many of these three-year-olds would not fit in kindergartens, but, for example, in my territory, in Koszalin, the heads of kindergartens, knowing what kindergartens they had already reported such a problem that there would be no room for three-year-olds, there would be no place for everyone, definitely not for everyone. And that's not an argument... I don't want thousands here. or specific numbers... The problem is undoubtedly, and it cannot be ignored. The reason is simple: the return of the entire year of six-year-olds to kindergarten is a lack of space for three-year-olds, as I said, and in rural areas and large agglomerations Also for the part of four-year-olds. Therefore, a large protest of the parents' environments is expected. My parents were still worried about the announcements, because in fact such announcements were... My parents were already talking to me at that time. It is therefore expected, as I said, that there is a large protest of parents' environments, especially those active in the profession, who plan to enroll children in public preschool facilities when they reach the age of 3. Leaving six-year-olds in pre-school education it is also a huge threat in terms of further employment of early-school teachers. Since the next school year, i.e. 1 September 2016, 7-year-olds will be sent to the first classes, which have been postponed in respect of the implementation of the school obligation in the 2015/2016 school year. On a national scale, it is a dozen percent of children of this age, and also an inestimable number, as I said, of six-year-old children whose parents decide to start their education at that age. Such a drastic reduction in first class recruitment is the loss of work by thousands of teachers in the country and this problem is also raised by teachers. It is not so simple that these teachers from schools can automatically be retrained as teachers in kindergartens, it is not the same, it is not a question of the same qualifications. I'm not talking about the big organizational fuss anymore. Today, teachers who have a third grade in primary school under their care are not sure that they will have a new first class to attend after their children have completed their studies in grade 1 and 3 from 1 September. So it is wrong to assume that early school teachers who are exempt will find employment in kindergartens. Only a few kindergartens will be able to increase the number of branches after leaving six-year-olds in them, because unfortunately, kindergartens are limited, so to speak, capacity, reception opportunities. They will not expand overnight, they operate in local governments in specific environments, close to, in settlements, etc. After all, all this is related to the issue of local governments, which are to deal with this problem. It's not a problem sucked out of your finger. The restoration of the school obligation by seven-year-olds is also a threat to the organisation of primary school work in 2016/2017. In the light of the current rules on admission to the secondary school, it is up to the municipality to establish first classes for pupils residing in the school circuits, despite a very small number of people. This is a serious problem. In rural communities it can be 1- or 2-person classes, and in cities, for example. Five, six people. That's what the self-governments have been investigating. They've already taken care of it, and competent people have taken care of it. It should also be noted that the disorganizing element in determining school work for the new school year is leaving parents the decision to save a 6-year-old child to the first grade until 31 August 2016. What is causing this? What does the late deadline lead to? After all, school heads are obliged to design the organisation of school work for the following school year by the end of April. They're supposed to be planning until the end of April, and parents are supposed to decide by the end of August. Yes? Ladies and gentlemen, how can this be seriously planned? These are very important issues. In a situation of ignorance of the number of 6-year-olds whose parents will be able to decide on their entry into the first class by the end of summer holidays, directors will not determine as important matters as the number of branches, the number of first classes and the employment of teachers in these branches. Another very important aspect is the financial impact. The return of 6-year-olds to kindergartens and the resulting lack of space for 3-year-old and partially 4-year-old children will force municipalities to announce competitions addressed to non-public institutions in order to provide seats for all those willing. At the committee meeting, there was a clear trend to limit the number of non-public schools, schools and kindergartens, but mainly schools were mentioned. Besides, I don't know why, after all... there were even comparisons that it's like hospitals and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps in the interests and interests of the child and the parents, it is in the interest of the school to be able to choose such a school as will ensure optimal development, to guarantee an appropriate level. I know that for example. At our place, in Koszalin, the social Catholic school works perfectly. This is a non-public school. Then why is it said that this sector is an undesirable sector, to put it mildly? As I said, the adoption of such a solution in the light of the rules in force will generate further expenditure in local governments on carrying out their own task, which is to provide pre-school education to local residents. Of course, there were and still are problems of local governments. We're seeing it. With the maintenance of education, there is a question of pay, but this situation will undoubtedly deepen this problem. There's no doubt about that. Self-governments aren't a bottomless sack. Self-governments will have to accumulate schools. And it may prevent, as was mentioned at the committee's meeting, a decision by a de facto bonding curator who will not allow it. There were questions about who's gonna pay the extra, then who's gonna pay the extra... [[Voice from the room: Adds the budget.]] Speaking of which, Mr. Senator, the bill doesn't say he's gonna pay the budget. That's not in this bill. There was talk of it all the time, the Deputy Minister said about good cooperation between the government and the government. This is a great idea, but this cooperation should be manifested in a specific increase in grants or in complementing grants in such situations. After all, these schools or kindergartens, especially schools, because there will be shortcomings, have fixed costs. Not to mention, ladies and gentlemen, I do not really imagine that comfortable for parents is a situation in which the child will be, as it is said, wintering, repeating the class. Well, it's always... I don't know, maybe there are new habits now, but no matter what the circumstances, it's always been that repeating the class has been stigmatizing the child for practically a very long time. Well, he kept repeating his class! And for what reason, that's not what anybody's asking. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the situation seems completely incomprehensible. I'm not gonna... There was no speech at the committee meeting, or at least there was no in-depth discussion on why this age was increasing, while all of Europe, twenty-four countries, lowered it and it worked perfectly there. There's a tendency to decrease... This is a matter of the minority proposal of the education commission. We in our committee focused on the problems of the local government. It should be recalled that the projects of local government budgets for the next year have already been submitted and have not taken into account the assumption of losing part of the subsidy since one year may not start education in the first class, except for children deferred in connection with the implementation of the obligation in the current school year. These budgets also do not provide for the creation of new pre-school branches. I repeat: it's not in the budgets. It is also worth noting that there are no substantive indications which would clearly indicate that starting school education at the age of 6 is detrimental from the point of view of child development. I'm signaling this problem, very important. The perceived acceleration of development indicates that the vast majority of six-year-olds are ready to learn at this age and are successful in learning. It is not that the law has so far prevented parents from choosing. Oh, come on. After all, parents, if they saw that the child couldn't handle it, could apply for a continuance and did it. Here's the inverse... [[They had to go to the psychologist.]] This is the other way around. Okay, and right now, the situation is that those kids who are supposed to go early have to try to... I mean, their parents... [[Voices from the hall: They don't have to.]] What if they don't have to? How? If they want to... I mean, these kids aren't gonna be admitted. Their parents have to... [[Voice from the room: But the parents didn't...]] No, no, no, no, no. Yeah, they do. Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to discuss whether additional opinions are needed And I agree with you here. Is it enough for your parents to do what you want? Yes, this is where I would agree if you changed it in such a way that you eliminated only the need for a psychologist's opinion and left your parents a decision. Then it would actually be the will of the parents without, so to speak, presenting any additional documents. The introduction of the above-mentioned amendment as a parliamentary project is of great concern due to the lack of extensive public consultation, as I mentioned at the outset, and the failure to take into account the opinion of local authorities on this important issue. If even in some part of the opinion was noticed, I was talking about the position of the districts It's just being ignored. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u23	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Jan Zarin, to submit a report to the committee. [[Science authority... now you're gonna hear it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission for Science, Education and Sports passed today at 10:00 a.m. a law amending the education system law and some other laws. I do not want to repeat here in favour of my previous speaker, but as far as the scope of these statutory amendments is concerned, it is known that it is about restoring the school obligation for 7-year-olds, the de facto preschool obligation for six-year-olds, the right of children of 3 and 5 years of age to stay in kindergartens. The second part of the law concerns what has already been underlined here, i.e. the increase of the competences of the education curatorium in the form of inter alia. pedagogical supervision of the responsibilities of the local government regarding the running of schools. It is primarily about the impact on the course of cases, the decision-making process for the liquidation of schools. It is also a question of improving teachers, and here the Curatorium also acquires more competence. Discussions and proceedings of the committee were subject to inter alia. The fact that we had visitors. Former, of course, Mrs Marzena Machalek, rapporteur of this law for the Sejm, Minister Wargock, also present here with a team of people from the Ministry of National Education, as well as guests who came as, so to speak, a social, civic factor, representatives of the Polish Teachers' Association, the Federation of Educational Initiatives and the Foundation for Education. Judging by the number of people sitting on the guest benches, representatives of all these organizational structures are also here with us and will probably listen to our senator's meeting to the end. I mention this because representatives, among others. These are the organisations that have spoken. It is not possible to describe here in detail all the votes that fell during this committee meeting, but maybe it is worth articulating some. Representatives, among others. The Federation of Educational Initiatives asked with real concern important questions about the impact this law will have on the functioning of rural communities, not large agglomerations, cities where the possibility of consummating this law will probably be much greater, but precisely those rural communities or rural communities. In their case, the Ministry provides for the return of the school obligation for 7-year-olds. E.g. The Polish Teachers' Association raised, in accordance with its own perspective of looking at school reality, the problem of teachers, which under this legislative path was somewhat overlooked in view of the clear increase in the importance of parents, whose legislators took first into account. Also representatives of the Foundation for Education, expressing among others. light jealousy, in a good sense, towards the Ministry of National Education reminded about the existence of the Institute of Educational Research, which works very intensively and many interesting research and testing initiatives provide evaluation to the Ministry. Of course, there were many more such voices, both charges and questions. Among other things, Mrs Machalek and Minister Wargock responded. It can be said that these answers, like the votes of the senators of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, can be ranked in three thematic groups. The first level is the general level. It can be said that this is an idea-worldview case, i.e. the level concerning the general, but falling within the educational context, the reason for the return to school obligation for 7-year-olds. And at this first, highest level of reference, it is undoubtedly the most important thing to listen to the authors of the law in the voice of the most important actors, i.e. parents and children. It is a voice that was not appreciated, heard and considered at a time when compulsoryly the age of school duty was reduced by one year. Of course, both the gesture of the previous authorities and the gesture of the present authorities, there is undoubtedly a profound ideological difference between us sitting here, between the Senators of Law and Justice and the Civic Platform. In the words that flowed from the Minister's mouth, as well as some senators. Among other things, my voice was in this direction, and it was stated and confirmed that for us both parents and children are entities that parenting is the most important and that the state is a supporting entity, and not as if it were in the name of its interests, mainly economic, educational and educational path of the child, so that it would be as fast as possible, regardless of the degree of its development. Parents have the greatest idea about the degree of child development, and hence our choice to start school later By seven-year-olds, not six-year-olds. The second level was undoubtedly about the discussion on the risks and disadvantages of the system that is currently in force. The conclusion was as follows: the changes proposed by Law and Justice and the government of Mrs. Beata Szydło must be carried out as soon as possible, because without a doubt the process which was incorporated into the educational bloodstream a year and a half ago is still to be stopped, i.e. everything that we see is wrong, we are able to reverse. The later the proposed changes will be... If there is a loss of another year or a year and a half, if we continue all this by eating various legal threads, the proposed changes will become more difficult to carry out. As far as the third level is concerned, such as the most relevant facts I chose only some of the arguments that were raised especially often... Several senators, practitioners, former school heads said that one of the most important problems, something that was very difficult for parents to bear, was two shifts in primary schools. Of course, it touched and especially affected parents who had more than one child. Such a two - shift at a time when there are three or four parents in school, will completely disorganize professional and family life, while the smallest, youngest child often requires even greater educational care. I would say as rapporteur Only the Committee on Science, Education and Sport for the time being In fact, all these three levels of expression that have been present are part of the basic difference in the philosophy of approach to education. You have to realize that this ruling team has a different educational vision than the Civic Platform. For this government, it is not the most important argument that more or less countries in the European Union have adopted the age of 5, 6 or 7 with regard to school obligations. In general, the bidding on the existence of countries that are supposed to be better or worse due to this factor is beyond that, so to speak. And I hope so. The higher level we presented in the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. Therefore, I suggest that the Senators of the Civic Platform no longer introduce this factor into the discussion, because it is quite derogatory to the Polish state and our nation. [[But what offends the Polish state?]] [[Why?]] We have our own experience and our own ability to test how the development of a young man based on the most important structure, or family, is presented. And we do not need, as a nation with more than a thousand years of tradition, to look for the strength of patterns in selected countries that are supposedly leading. I repeat this point because I think it is important to stress that in the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, these are all three levels From the general, broadly understood, the educational philosophy of the State's role in supporting the family rather than the state as sovereign, up to the level of detailed examples, has been discussed. And without a doubt these detailed examples were a function of what we consider to be a space of fundamental dispute. The proposal of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport was that the bill should be passed by the Senate without amendment. But there have also been minority conclusions, and I'm sure Senator Wach will be talking about them in a moment. In short: no doubt these proposals are de facto about abolishing the entire law, in this direction they have gone to which, of course, the minority has always the right. Therefore, these proposals were not merely an improvement of the provisions and the idea of the law, but rather were proposals aimed at eliminating the law. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, in corrigendum mode...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Klich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u26	On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to correct what the rapporteur mentioned. Indeed, the rapporteur is right in speaking of the difference in the approach to education between Law and Justice and the Civic Platform, but we do not wish, yes, that our vision, which we consider to be modern, to meet the needs of the modern world, should be called an insult to anything. And the senator used that term. I might as well tell you about the sturdy vision you're presenting, the sturdy, archaic, nineteenth-century vision, but I didn't do it at the committee meeting. So I don't want you to say that on behalf of the Civic Platform Club, to use words like that to us. I'm asking you to apologize. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u27	Mr. Senator, I just want to point out that it wasn't a correction, it was a polemic. [[May I?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u28	Of course, I'm sorry if that's how I've been understood... [[I accept your apology.]] Clearly, I should not use such words in this sense, but I have only said about one country's argument that it seems to me to be an argument that is not limited to the level of our discussion, i.e. to refer to external examples as supposedly better just because they are external. And it's insulting to us, not to you or the Civic Platform as a party. So that the word "derogatory" was directed at me rather than at me, that is to say, I am the one who is affected. But if it's understood the other way around, I'm very sorry, I'm sure I'll try to avoid this kind of non-essential irritation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Piotr Wacha, to present a proposal from the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, I am presenting a minority proposal to reject the law, so it is radical. I would also like to thank Professor Żaryn in a way for his speech, because I very much disagree with him, but he very clearly outlined the differences, outlined what we are arguing about, in addition to the legislative and practical details. These legislative and practical details should also be mentioned, but actually, as to say, this difference, this dispute is much further going. Namely, I would make a proposal to reject the law in its essential form in such a way that this amendment withdraws the important educational achievement which it has proposed and started to implement, partly runs the Civic Platform, reducing the age of the school obligation of children from 7 years to 6 years old. On this occasion, I would like to say that it is not taking children away from the family, it is not taking over the young generation, because the school duty still exists. This is a one-year reduction in this age. Of course, it matters because the younger the child That's what everyone agrees with. The greater it should be under the care of parents, and we do not argue about it. But many sources, both scientific and practical, show that children at the age of 6 are able to work within the school regime, properly prepared, and that this gives good results. We are not bidding on any European countries, we are only saying this: a law that is currently in force and which we now want to change by this amendment, we have not introduced something new, we are not doing an experiment that would be a world experiment on children. We are rather, to be very careful, in the tail of the countries that make such a change. We have a rich base when it comes to comparing how a number of other countries with a culture similar to Poland faced this problem, and what the results have been. And this is undoubtedly a positive result, i.e. where there is a school obligation for six-year-olds, both the education system is harmonious, giving good results, also at universities the results are very good... Of course, the problem is more complex, it's not just about this one year, but, in short, and maybe a little rude... I'd say so. From our country with a thousand-year tradition and extensive educational experience and significant achievements, many young people go to a country where the school obligation starts at the age of 5 because the culture of life and the organization of social life attracts them. Of course, this is not just a matter of school duty alone. There are many, many more factors, including the fact that the history, course of the war, and what happened after the war, in many other countries gave these countries a much better chance. You have to tell yourself this isn't just about education. Our education was flawed for many reasons. After this great tightening of war there may have been an even worse process of many years of erosion of education and distortions in the socialist system, even though in substance the value of this education has often been significant, especially in the field of natural sciences and science. So it's very complicated. But we're the country that decided to do it thanks to the Civic Platform Act, after testing it in other countries... Well, we're convinced it's a step... that it was a step... not that it's a step... that the bill is still in force, but it's to be abolished. It is beneficial and beneficial for development. Especially since it was introduced in a situation of great difficulty. The fact is that a large part of the parents protested against these solutions. The fact is that a referendum on this issue has not been held. However, a very large proportion of parents supported this kind of step and the existence of the so-called one must also be taken into account. A silent majority. A lot of people accepted it. The following should also be considered. Well, the change in starting school duty from 7 years to 6 years actually family and practice... this change was thrown out by both educational institutions and, above all, families from comfortable railroads. In short, people were used to it. It was the experience of older sisters, brothers, as well as personal experiences, to the fact that it was so. It started at the age of 7 and it was actually known what to do, and here there was a problem and a need for change. Of course, it was prepared. It was prepared by the preschool obligation, which will be maintained one way or another, and it was also prepared for several years of voluntary entry of six-year-olds into schools. So that we also have our own positive results of training six-year-olds who were generally younger than others in the class. Why do we take this step and take it back as destruction? 'Cause I'd even... You call it a good change, and I believe in good intentions, but in my opinion it's destruction, and it's on several levels. First of all, this solution lowers, spoils... It hits families and children the most neglected. And it's not even because of the first class, it's because preschool duty actually starts at the age of 6. After all, it is not until the school that shows various neglects and shortcomings of children from families who are not families. That's what we're gonna call them. Intelligent, urban, but they are families in which educational difficulties and difficulties in caring for children in which these children are not so closely observed, because they are not observed as they speak, how they function. In the event of a decrease in the age of compulsory schooling and the age of preschool duty, these families have actually had the most chance to benefit from this. Because families where children read Sometimes parents pride themselves on reading at a young age, etc. They are not neglected. So this change is gonna hurt. Of course, until recently this injury existed, because all this time there was a duty for seven-year-olds, for many, many years since we remember. Nevertheless, our law, despite great difficulties, fixed this issue. So what I'm saying is that I think it's the biggest problem. I would also say that the problem is that important preparatory and implementation work is being withdrawn. They may not have been ideally conducted, but the consultations were wide, the trials were wide, the preparation in schools too. Of course, we have heard of some shortcomings in this area, but it was rather necessary to move towards a continuation, improvement and strengthening of these elements, which we have already seen, that they do not work very well with regard to preparation. So that we're actually dealing with a waste of some work here, with some retreat. And I'm pretty sure that after a while, there's gonna be another shift that's gonna bring back the six-year-olds' school responsibilities. And these years and efforts will be considered wasted. Some specific issues that have been and will be discussed here... It's all going to be wasted. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult not to mention here also the chaos caused by all this chaos in the educational system. There are minor and more important consequences of the situation in question. The most important effect I'd consider is that first-graders actually... In the system after the change of class, the first ones will be the boxes. The desire to fill these first classes results in the possibility of voluntary repetition of the first class, without evaluation, without classification. This is an experiment that no one has actually done before. And that's what we'll be proud of. I am only afraid that the effect will be negative, because the connotation of possible repetition of the class, even after any translations and even without classification, will leave a trace. We don't know exactly what it is, but I'm pretty sure it's gonna be negative. So it's not worth doing what we're talking about. I'd also say that a serious piece of work stays here, on this occasion... The possible introduction of the law, and it seems to me that they are the best chances, the chances of my proposal are not very high, but I am trying to convince you to do so. It'll cause us to just go back, we'll lose the next few years. I will not mention the fact that money and organizational effort will be lost by the way. Perhaps it's also staffing matters when it comes to teachers... Such doubts were expressed, and they are well discussed, such as representatives of the Polish Teachers' Association or other institutions. I'm not gonna dwell on this because this isn't about bochalteria. I agree with Mr. Żaryn that this is about a certain principle. In the opinion of the Civic Platform, also in my personal opinion... I speak on the basis of the experience I have as a professor, as a person who has dealt with students and knows that today our students, in all age groups, in situations where there is an exchange, when they work in international teams, stay old and feel uncomfortable, feel too old. It turns out they're two years older. And that's two years old at 18 or 21 years old. I will no longer talk about my grandson, who was already after college at the age of 20 and went to Tanzania as a volunteer, a volunteer teacher. Our students are just too old. They're wasted. There's a loss at the very beginning because you neglect those weak and you waste those who could do something. They're shortening their time horizon. Well, they're longer under mommy's care, but this trend exists in the world for other reasons. And it's actually caricatureal. We absolutely shouldn't support such a thing. I am defending here, above all, the concept as well as the implementation of this concept. But not 100%. As the realizations in such difficult matters are never perfect That was introduced by the Civic Platform. I believe that the change proposed by you, although probably sincere, is due to ideology as well as promises It is here, as everywhere, that the political element will not do any good and will only require further changes. I therefore call on the Ministry to reject it so that, in the event that the proposed amendment enters into force, it will change its approach and instead of talking about a great achievement... We have fulfilled our electoral promise, but this change is not a great achievement. This would have to be done: we will try to encourage parents to send their children to school on a voluntary basis at the age of 6. Let this be done, with promotion from the Ministry, gradually, and as it will be 90%, and probably a few years later, it will be possible to restore this duty calmly in a more soft way. If we don't, we're gonna have to do this radically, and maybe we're gonna discuss it again after losing five years, six years, I don't know how many... Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u31	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. [[I volunteered first, but I don't think anyone noticed me.]] Senator Fedorovich was indeed the first. [[I'll resign to the marshal for the sake of respect.]] [[No, I don't want the senator to have to...]] Senator Secretary informs me that the first one was Marshal Borusewicz. So Marshal Borusewicz and then Senator Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u32	I have a question for the rapporteur of the PiS majority, Senator Zarin. As a result of what PiS is going to do This is about withdrawing the reform. There will undoubtedly be fewer pupils not only in the first class but also in the second class, because students will also be left in the second class. Well, back in my day, when I was in elementary school, it was left in a class of losers. How many teachers will therefore be fired? How many people won't have a job? I'm gonna ask for some respect, some respect in this case. A dozen, several thousand, several dozen... That's the first question. Question two. I was not offended by your Senator Zarin. I am not offended by the fact that we are comparing our solutions to solutions in the European Union. But I would like to ask what countries in Europe this obligation is for seven-year-olds. I know this duty is in Russia. However, I would rather compare myself to the countries of the European Union than to Russia. Please answer the question, in which European countries, not just the European Union...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u33	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u34	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer the first question first. According to the Ministry of National Education's assurances, I think that the Minister will be able to confirm or correct this... The Ministry does not assume at all the need for redundancies or the need for redundancies. Time will, of course, show, because it is impossible to predict everything, but... I understand that one of the safety valves in this area will be the possibility of switching initial teachers to preschool education in one or the other version of this teaching, which can, of course, cause some human problems, perturbations associated with changing jobs, but this does not change the pool of teachers who would be still present in education, employed. At least that's the idea, and if practice shows... Well, of course, then we'll have to go back to that. I don't quite know why you, Senator, claim... In addition to the first class, which, of course, will be such, one can say, the place where the introduction will be reflected and then the exit of the previous reform, because here is an obvious cost... In the second grade, I don't see that threat anymore. It may be, but it is not as clear as it is in the case of the first class. I don't know how the senator knows what parents and children are gonna do. [[Voice from the room: Art. 11 of this bill.]] He gives us an opportunity, but we don't know the scope of this possibility, so rather calmly... That's gonna be noticed. And as for those countries where it is mandatory to start education at the age of 7, I know about Russia and Finland. There's a third country... I mean, it was because Turkey changed... [[And Romania.]] And Romania, right? Four, then. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I know about these... [[Romania has already changed that.]] Oh, she did, too. Well, I guess that leaves Russia and Finland. [[Voice from the room: I Poland.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But just so you know, it doesn't affect the assessment of that decision in that sense... I'm pointing it out again. And thank you, Senator Wach, for considering this to be a leading argument between us. That we certainly have a different attitude towards the Polish family. That's the difference between us. Otherwise we define her needs, otherwise we define her meaning. We know, of course, that he's hiding behind it, too. It's just not in this law anymore. Other understanding of the school's obligation. We are clearly in favour of a Polish school And that's what the public told us. The tradition prevailed, i.e. a certain uniqueness of our, unique as any other European nation, educational path of Polish children and young people. This vision is internally coherent. And we will learn about it in the framework of further educational laws, concerning e.g. matters of whether or not middle school is going to continue to exist. This will turn into a logic that will undoubtedly talk about the fact that we have our own Polish system solutions, the importance of which is above all such that it is precisely that the good flowing from family education and raising children is not too drasticly opposed by the school, which, in our opinion, has the potential to influence, in my personal opinion, dangerous, resulting, of course, also from the fact that the European Union is a provider of very dangerous educational projects. It's all connected. You know that, of course, and so do we. So we are in favour of two different, widely understood systems of child and youth protection in Poland, in our opinion. You are in favour of protecting the possibility of promotion of Polish children and young people in the context of changing European challenges, in which we believe that these challenges dominate the very far-reaching danger of destroying the family. And there's no compromise or... [[By science?]] No, not by science. You know perfectly well that it's not because of science, it's because of content. [[By knowledge?]] No, knowledge in itself is not bad, it is the scope of this knowledge, the way of presenting this knowledge, which, as you know, It's based on axiology, like everything in life. If the set of values is so different that internally incompatible, there is no compromise. As I said at the committee meeting in the discussion with you, this is a zero-one system. [[Then let's get out of the Union.]] [[And why should we leave the Union?]] No, we need to change the Union because we are the subject, not the subject of the Union. We're going to change the Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Fedorovich. [[A voice from the hall: From poverty he will ask, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have no questions for you, but I completely disagree with you because, you know, Krakow was founded on German law, Środa Śląska etc., there would be no Slovak without Shakespeare. You say there's nothing to follow. Okay, let's just stick with each other. I don't want to lose the thread. I ask the reply of the rapporteur, Senator Spider, if I may, because Senator Spider is a local governmentman, and the mayor of the city, which I very much like. I'm gonna ask you a quick question, maybe I'll develop it later, but we don't really have much to talk about. I saw kids who went to school when they were six, now they're in second grade, but their parents didn't send them to school. Now those little girls who went to first class early are in second grade, and those guys are embarrassed because they're in first grade. So it's not always parents... If they were as smart as us, they'd be senators. Parents don't always know what's good for their children, that's why we're here, teachers, I can say that about me because I take care of children. Mr. Senator, I have an opinion here that came out yesterday, and she's not official. It turns out that if you implement this law, there will be 360 thousand places in kindergartens throughout Poland. This is a document... actually it's not a document, it's a synthesis that was presented yesterday in the media. Tell me, because there's a very serious problem in Krakow. And I'm a Senator from Krakow. The kindergarten directors know that they can't handle how you're gonna provide room for kids, for three-year-olds who want to go to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u37	Mr. Senator, I asked the Minister as a former governor and a former governor. For more than 21 years, I have met with such problems and at the elementary school stage, and at the same time, having eight children and sending them to school every 3 and 4 years, I realise when it was good to send them to school. As far as financial affairs are concerned, I am sure that the pain of pain is that local governments always receive little money. There's no question about that. At the committee meeting I asked the Minister, among others. about what will happen in the case of schools that are small and in which the number of children falls because it is natural. Is there a chance of funding these schools, possibly including them outside the subsidy? The Minister replied that this would be discussed in the context of the issue of education funding. When it comes to kindergarten, it's hard for me to answer. The answer to this question is, as I say, to the Minister, I will ask for it. I'm just gonna say that there were a lot of places in kindergartens that were prepared, every year the number of children is falling, so I don't know why they're gonna be missing right now. Another question that was raised here was the issue of funding for kindergartens. According to what the Minister said at the committee meeting, are there additionally 74 million ready for kindergarten support. So much for what we talked about at the committee meeting. And I'll ask the Minister to fill in the answers later.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u38	Thank you. Senator Szymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u39	My question is to Senator Wach, but it could also be addressed to Senator Ziientarski or to a professor who had just reported. I feel like we're not giving up what's in the bill here. The senator kept talking about the fact that children's education would be postponed in relation to what was written in the bill for one year. We say all the time that education starts at the age of seven, but in the act nothing like that is written. I'd like to read my lips. Article 3 14. He is the following: a child at the age of six is required to have an annual preschool preparation in kindergarten or in another form of preschool education. Thus, there is no record in the Act that children are only starting education and upbringing outside the family from the age of seven, there is no information that there is a change here. In fact, children receive education outside their home. I've quoted the right recipe here. My question is this: was this the subject of the committee's deliberations, or was this item noticed? You said, for example, that the greatest damage would be suffered by children from marginalised, difficult environments, where parents could not cope with their upbringing, that these children would not go to school and would not be cared for by teachers, which would be a huge loss. But it is clearly stated in this law that there is an obligation to bring up preschool education, so there will be no such loss. Not much, they will have better care in kindergartens than in schools, because they will be provided with meals, that there will be a standard of rooms, etc., etc. Did the committee consider it? This isn't a bill that's going to get kids to start education away from home when they're seven years old. Nothing like that in this bill is written. In fact, this is about six years of age, and education and upbringing will simply take place in other forms than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u40	Thank you very much. Does the senator want to answer? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u41	I'll answer that question briefly. This is a very, very meaningful and important question. Firstly, the committee did not actually deal directly with this problem. I raised the case, justifying the damage resulting from the amendment. The loss is borne by children, especially children from the environments I mentioned, in which children are more difficult in such a sense of the intellectual environment. This is because the pre-school obligation exists and is explicite for children aged six years. And when it comes to schooling, children aged six years have a preschool obligation for younger children, i.e. children aged five years. So the child's mandatory entry into the system is delayed by a year. Of course, if I remember the amendment correctly, local authorities should provide the possibility of pre-school education for children aged between three and six. Right? I think that's what it says. But when it comes to hard duty, it's a year late. And that's why it's a loss.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u43	Dear Senators! I have questions for the two rapporteurs, Senator Zarin and Senator Spider. I'm sending Senator Zarin to you first. In the course of the committee's work, did it explain why in the article. The 30-year statute reduces the requirements that a candidate for education needs to meet? According to the law that is in force, a candidate for a probationary education must have at least three years' experience in a position requiring pedagogical supervision. In the present law it has been deleted, it is enough that it has a 7-year internship as a teacher. Was this case brought up? Because this is a very important element. Theoretically, someone who wasn't even a school vice principal can become a probation officer, all he had to do was teach somewhere in a school for seven years. Of course, I'm not talking about other requirements, for example, that he needs to have a college degree. That's the first question. And the second question is to Senator Spider. Whether it was explained during the committee meeting or whether it was raised, why in the article. 30, when it comes to the composition of the contest committee of the determining curator of education, were two representatives of the sejm of the voivodship excluded? So we have only three representatives of the minister, two representatives of the voivodship and trade union representatives. The representatives of the sejm of the voivodship were excluded, which means it is as if the local government were alienated from the possibility of... Because here, of course, there's no way that the representatives of the Sejm will even be able to determine the outcome of this competition, because the government... There is a minister and a voivode, so they have a vast majority on the competition committee. Is this so that representatives of the local government do not have the opportunity to see the course of the competition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u44	Thank you very much. Does Senator Lightning want to answer? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, this time very briefly. This issue was raised only as a matter of concern. It has been claimed that the requirements of the education curator have actually been amended in the Act and that there is no longer a record of a three-year traineeship in such a supervisory job. But there were no voices in the discussion, either supporting or polemicizing... So that was the case, but not the consequences.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u46	Thank you very much. Does Senator Spider want to answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u47	Mr Senator, as far as the Committee on Local Government and State Administration is concerned, it was said very briefly at the committee meeting that the Minister was appointed and dismissed at the request of the voivodships. As regards issues relating to the composition of the committee or to the conduct of the competition, this issue was not addressed at the committee meeting at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u48	Thank you. Senator Augustyn has been asked to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u49	I have a question for Senator Spider and Senator Zientarski about the costs. In the company of the Ombudsman and in the company of the Ombudsman, I visited many schools because there were many complaints, there was a referendum, etc. And I went to all the trouble to just go to these schools and see how they're prepared... if they're even prepared. And there the accompanying self-governments talked about the large charges they made to prepare special troops with a separate entrance, with a separate playground, with a separate field for these little ones. Have the costs of these unnecessary investments been estimated now or mostly unnecessary? It was public money. In the government part, in the local government part, which has been spent on investments which will be largely or entirely useless now. For those of you to say, going through the old seven-year-old mode, these investments were not necessary. The question is: did local governments indicate these costs? And the second point, the question is more to Senator Ziientarski. Did the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration discuss how much it could really cost for local authorities to check in for teachers who would not find employment? My knowledge is it takes a year and a half to get educated to get retrained. It's impossible to do that at the time this bill comes into force. It is not possible to simply move these teachers, it is not to any extent guaranteed by the law. Many teachers will therefore lose their jobs I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. And it's going to cost, and it's going to cost money not only from the subsidies that local governments are getting, but also from the huge part that city governments in particular are paying for. Is the cost of this operation known?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u50	Thank you. Does Senator Spider want to answer the question? [[The Komorowski referendum went to 80 million PLN.]] [[President of Komorowski.]] [[What about 80 million...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u51	Mr. Senator, I think as regards the details of what has been prepared, what has been invested, I'll ask you to supplement the Minister. But I don't think all this is going to be lost anywhere. For example, if I look at a school in the municipality of Zawoja, I see that they have joined two schools and in one school they are now learning children, and from the other school they have made a beautiful kindergarten. And they're even gonna have to pay for it to work. But here is also the transformation of preschool branches in primary schools into kindergartens and the deadline for this transformation was shifted from 1 September 2016 to 1 September 2019. So if these classes are prepared, if everything is there, why can't preschool units be used there or can't it be used? I don't think that's gonna be a big loss. As regards matters relating to dismissals, Although I doubt they'll be I will not answer you, because firstly, this subject was not discussed at the committee meeting, and secondly, I would like to ask the Minister, if she has any data on this matter, to answer this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u52	Thank you. Does Senator Zientarski want to answer the question? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, when it comes to these questions, there is no way to answer them, which is the consequence of the lack of possibility. I was talking about this at the beginning as a representative of the minority, preparing an opinion, even asking for the opinion of local governments, not to mention analyses. All I said was that the county council was against this reform. Undoubtedly you will not be able to use these, you can say, places that were specifically meant for six-year-olds in schools, and you will certainly not be able to combine them everywhere and create separate kindergartens at schools. These will be rare situations, certainly in cities, perhaps in smaller ones, such a possibility could be realised to some extent. So no doubt some of these specially prepared objects will not be used. As regards the issue of teachers' dismissals, we have heard the opinion of the applicants that teachers will be shifted to preschool education. As a minority representative, I also said that there are other qualifications at stake here. Therefore, when it comes to other qualifications, there must be at least some training and appropriate preparation. So that, of course, not only the number of redundancies was estimated, but also, which is the consequence of these redundancies or retrainings, the costs associated with this transfer. In addition, it is difficult to imagine that it will be possible, especially in cities, to transfer teachers from schools to kindergartens, because kindergartens have limited local opportunities which are currently being used to the maximum extent. There are as many kindergarten teachers as there are local opportunities. And now all of a sudden you'd have to build new kindergartens, and there's no time for that. [[It's been eight years.]] Please? [[Eight years was for that.]] But we think they've developed these kids. Mr. Senator, both schools and kindergartens... We're talking about moving... [[From kindergarten to daycare.]] ...from kindergarten schools. We talked about there being no room for three-year-olds in kindergarten. The question was about teachers, their re-training, their possible transition to... This is not a simple and easy process, and certainly expensive and, so to speak, not in a wide range of ways that can be met in the near future.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u54	Thank you very much. [[Correct, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Dowhan. [[And this corrigendum, Mr. Marshal?]] [[In corrigendum mode, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to...]] But does the senator know that the correction procedure concerns a misunderstood or misconstrued statement? [[Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u55	I would like to correct the words of Senator Ziientarski, who said that re-training a teacher requires completion of a course by this teacher. Unfortunately, Mr. Senator, but...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u56	Mr. Senator, this is polemic. [[Please?]] It's polemic. Did Senator Zientarski talk about your statement? [[It's not polemic. I just want to correct it and say it's a mistake.]] But that's not a correction, Senator. The corrigendum concerns a misunderstood or misunderstood statement, your statement. Is that what happened? [[Sort of.]] I don't think so. [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u57	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for both the rapporteurs, Senator Spider and Senator Zarin. You said that the committees were by a majority of votes, yes. I'd like to know the committee's composition and find out who voted how. This is definitely important. This is the first case. Second question. Why, once again, is there no consultation in the case of such an important law, and why has the Senate Legislative Office been rejected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u58	Thank you. Are you Senator Żaryn... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u59	The vote, Mr Senator, was predictable: the Senators of Law and Justice voted in favour of this law without amendments; one Senator, Mr Wach, was against; one Senator, also from the Civic Platform, abstained. If I remember correctly, that was the outcome of the vote. Mr President, Professor Kazimierz Wind, in accordance with the procedure, gave the floor to a representative of the Legislative Office. The lady representing this office has informed us that there is no structured opinion, which we have accepted. Almost all the speakers of the Minister, the rapporteur and we who spoke at the meeting stressed that the consultation took place in Poland almost all the time when, during the time of the Civic Platform's rule, reform was being implemented today and having its effects. These two years were undoubtedly a very good time to figure out what the voice is, first of all, the parenting voice and how these accents are decomposed, and now they are not about the project, but about the bill. During the committee meeting, this was repeatedly recalled, precisely in connection with the question of a place for consultation. It's been two years.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Tight. Senator Spider wants to answer again? Good. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u61	Mr Senator, with regard to the vote, the vote, and the opposition, it sort of followed the PiS and PO lines: 6 members of the PiS committee voted in favour and 5 opposed. As far as consultations are concerned, the subject at some point was... The answer to this question was that, for example. The parents'"Save the little ones'action, which collected over 1 million signatures, was organized to restore the age of 7 as the age of children starting school at school. As far as the Legal Bureau is concerned, that wasn't the opinion. It's not an accusation that I'm going to say this to the office, but objectively it didn't have time to prepare such an opinion. There was no opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u62	The Senators, because at 4 p.m., the vote begins and Minister Wargock will have to go to the Sejm, I propose that the questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs be interrupted for a moment and that the Minister be put to the floor. You're welcome, Minister. [[I have a question for the Minister.]] [[Mr. Marshal, we won't be able to make it in ten minutes.]] But there are votes in the Seym. [[How about a break?]] [[But if the Minister doesn't have time...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u63	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. Maybe I can... It has not yet been decided whether the vote will be soon or later, and I would very much like to answer the questions that have already been asked and, above all, to dispel your doubts. Of course, every change raises some concerns, overinterpretations, I think even resistance in this situation. I would like to make it very clear at the outset that the issue of reducing school age to the age of 6 was raised in the public debate and in the parliamentary work in 2009. And really this very long period, until 2014, when all 6-year-olds regardless of the opinion of parents and certain environments, also scientific and expert... [[Some parents.]] ...they were sent to school mandatory, that time was a time of debate, consultation and some dispute. And in such a situation, as you know, there have been some demands in the election campaign. You also know that when important social problems arise, citizens are looking for contact with politicians. We didn't hide the fact that for six years the debate on six-year-olds in school was on the side of law and justice. I think we all remember that, and that's what we agree on. This law is a consequence of this attitude of Law and Justice. I do not accept here as a charge or some discovery that it is the fulfillment of the promise from the election campaign. Yes, it is the fulfillment of the promise from the campaign, but that is how the democratic state works. Citizens do not talk every four years, we talk to citizens on a continuous basis and listen to arguments. This law is an attempt to create a compromise, to reconcile two opposing ideas of learning and the role of parents in the education of their child. In this bill, we try not to decide, but to give parents a choice. I think she's very smart, very democratic and very thoughtful. It's not forbidden for parents to send a 6-year-old child to school. There are no formal conditions here, such as those in the previous law, that 90,000 parents had to obtain a certificate in the specialist clinic, in the psychological clinic, not to send their child to school. That's not there, there's no compulsion for parents of six-year-olds. And those parents who, for six years in a million years, expressed their opinions... They can leave a 6-year-old child at home. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we've taken a difficult step, because certain events have taken place. Six-year-olds are in school. You could really swing your hand and say, "Oh, it's okay, it's okay. But the truth about the functioning of a 6-year-old in school, the truth about the fact that the Polish school still does not meet the standards of European schools in which younger children learn, must also sound in this room. Of course, local governments have made a great deal of financial effort to prepare, adapt schools, classrooms to the standards of reducing school age, but there is still a lot to do. Only 30% of schools have adapted toilets and in order to get their needs straightened out, children need to get out of the classroom into the hallway. School canteens are not adequately equipped. What is a very big charge And I think it mainly scares the parents away from sending their children to school. It is a fact that only 30% of the branches of Class I.III have their classroom. So, after 5 hours of schooling, children go to a mass retreat in which there are children in the class of I.VI in huge weight and a teacher who often works there within the framework of card hours, because local governments have largely used an additional 2 hours of teaching work in such a way that they have directed them to the classrooms. So please don't really cause any complexes in your parents that they don't understand that the world has moved on. All over the world, conditions are first prepared, and then people, children, are sent there. Unfortunately, with us, this preparation process has not been completed. What do we propose? We propose a state before change, a state very good for the child, i.e. a 6-year preschool preparation with elements, in the form of fun, writing, reading, counting and school duty since the seventh year of age. If the children acquire these skills, they will develop well, the parent of a 6-year-old child will be able to send the child to school. So much for the whole thing. And I'd ask you to stop this discussion because it's embarrassing. It is embarrassing to discuss this type of discussion that Polish children are worse, and Law and Justice are such dark fences and backwards that they do not understand anything. No, reality denies it. A few very important issues, which you are taking on as if with concern, but not with some specific knowledge... The issue of hiring teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, if the number of children in the system does not change, if the number of hours does not change, this work will not run out. When it comes to the compartment, class I.III and six-year-olds in kindergarten, it's really number The kids aren't changing. Therefore, work must not be lacking. And kindergarten, and elementary school, and preschool at primary school, because there's going to be six-year-olds, and there's one lead organ. And really, if six-year-olds stay in kindergarten, I mean, they don't go to school, then there's gonna be more groups in kindergartens. [[Without the Teacher's Card?]] [[Teachers may not work in all kindergartens.]] Why without the Teacher's Card? [[Because there are teachers in all kindergartens with the Teacher's Card.]] [[Mr. Marshal, that's the side that's bothering you.]] Okay... I mean... We'll talk about the details. Second question: the number of pupils in Poland changes every year. She's getting smaller. But for this reason, the number of teachers does not decrease proportionally. Just because there's less kids doesn't mean there's going to be less classes in proportion. Please include this in your calculations and not talk about hundreds or tens of thousands of teachers who will lose their jobs. Teachers will really lose their jobs And we need to prepare for that, too. Just keep in mind that it is not because of the Law and Justice, when an additional yearbook in classes I and III, i.e. six-year-olds from 2013, 2014 and 2015, comes out of the initial teaching stage. That's when you actually... Because 23,000 jobs were created because of this extra yearbook. And remember, two years from now, there's gonna be a problem. And the problem that will arise next year is really to be solved, it will be small, local governments should deal with it. If you don't, you might get laid off. Within 0.4% The educational reserve is the money that compensates the authorities for the checks for the teachers being fired. Really, there won't be a big problem in 2016. There won't be any... We do not anticipate major funding problems, because local governments receive a subsidy calculated according to the status of the students of the previous 30 September year. So in general, there's money in government subsidies for all six-year-olds in schools. And this money should be used by local governments to increase the number of places in preschool and kindergarten branches. Besides, we increase the preschool grant by PLN 65 per place. Really, nothing tragic will happen in 2016. The year 2016 is to be dedicated to... There must be a debate on the arrangements between the government and the local government on how to finance the local government. Because education subsidy is a bad instrument for financing education, and the environment has been raising this issue for several years, but also because the Tax Free Act will cause losses in local government budgets. And the discussion on this subject, in peace and in good cooperation, in 2016 really needs to end with constructive decisions for the local government. Ladies and gentlemen, one sentence for the parole officer. Here, this issue did not sound strongly, perhaps more so in the Seym. But please accept our intention to give the curator a greater influence on the implementation of education policy of the state, because what has happened in recent years has already exceeded all limits of the full freedom of local governments to organize teaching in Poland. What's my point? The most disturbing phenomena that the Ombudsman has been drawing the attention of the Minister of Education for 3 years are the end of schools by eliminating recruitment to further classes, i.e. the end of schools, not through liquidation, but by crawling down the number of pupils and passing on schools to other legal entities. We already know that there is a commune in which the governor passed all his schools to an outside institution. Such, you might say, outsourcing. The Ombudsman described this phenomenon and the scale of this phenomenon as breaking the constitution and fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. This is really a very serious signal, and it needs to be taken care of. Self-governments are in a particularly difficult situation because they are in debt for 74 billion PLN, have a new financial perspective, want to use this money, have to take more loans, look for money everywhere. And this discussion about education, where to add, where to get it, where to get it, will be very serious in the coming years, but we cannot allow other development issues in municipalities to be dealt with by education subsidies. Well, we can't let that happen, and that's what this parole officer is for. The probation officer's decision can be appealed to the Minister and, on behalf of Minister Zalewska, I can guarantee you that no empty school or school in which there are two, five or seven children will be defended by the probation officer. And questions like that, if he doesn't let it go, he's gonna give the money, they're really out of place. We must work together for Poland and for our society. Let us not create such a division of self-government The government. We know that money divides that it is a certain standard that there will be a dispute, but we always have to think that the goal is one: the good functioning of the state. And while we respect the autonomy of local governments and appreciate the many good changes that have taken place in the Polish education world, it must be said that the minister through curators must have an impact on the implementation of the education policy of the state. That's what the bill says, and that's what the constitution says. Non-public education is very often valuable, good, but it has to complement the system. Let it evolve, no one's questioning it. However, this transfer of schools to other entities is precisely a hit on teachers to the greatest extent. The Supreme Audit Chamber concluded that the salaries of non-card-based teachers in non-public institutions run by associations and other entities fall by 40% and that working time increases by 30%. So that really shows that the only motive for liquidation is, so to speak, economic considerations. There won't be mass layoffs. Kindergarten, no place in kindergarten. I'm sure there's a lack of place in kindergartens that can happen. But let's not count on the entire population of six-year-olds staying in kindergarten and not letting any three-year-old in. I received a forecast from our department that we have 200,000 vacant seats in kindergartens...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u64	Minister, I'm sorry, but it's already 4:03. I don't know if you're gonna have to... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Was there a phone call?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: My phone rang?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Secretary of State at Teresa Wargock's Ministry of National Education: Because there was supposed to be information... the decision was made...]] Then why don't we stop now, and the Minister... Could the Minister please come back to us? After the votes? Because we have questions... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: I will return with great pleasure...]] [[Okay, so let's take a break.]] [[But what, there won't be any questions at all?]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Good. I'll explain in a minute...]] Because we still need to get back to the questions... Why don't we just wait until the vote is over in the Seym, and now let's get back to the senators' questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Good. Ladies and gentlemen, please ask long enough so I can come back.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Okay, so we're going back to the senators' questions right now. You signed up for Senator Rulewski. You're welcome... [[I have a formal motion.]] A formal conclusion? Senator Napieralski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u65	Mr. Marshal, we are discussing a very important bill concerning the future of our country, because of our children. Or you will adjust the agenda of today's Senate meeting to what is happening in the Seym... Well, it can't be that the minister is leaving our deliberations, the minister is for us, not us for the minister. I think... [[Mr. Senator, we're at the point of questioning the Senator rapporteurs.]] Well, yes, but you interrupted your questions with the Senators of the rapporteurs, you let the Minister on the stand, and now you're interrupting the questions with her, you're letting the Minister go. I think it's a little ridiculous. Either we take each other seriously, or... well, the government is for us, and we're not for the government. I therefore ask that the proceedings be settled and therefore that the agenda of the Senate be prepared so as not to interfere with the agenda of the Sejm. Well, take us seriously.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u66	We take you seriously. We return to the stage: questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs. Mr. Senator Rulewski. You're welcome. [[Excuse me...]] Senator Zdrojewska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u67	Mr. Marshal, while I share the opinion just now that this is an absolutely frivolous treatment of the Senate by a government representative, I am asking for a recess until the government's representative returns to the courtroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u68	This is a formal conclusion. Let us vote on Mrs Zdrojewska's proposal. Who is in favour of Mrs Zdrojewska's proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 16 senators voted in favour, 34 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] The motion didn't go through. We return to the questions of the rapporteurs' senators. Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am asking my question to the rapporteur of the committee, Professor Zarin. Namely, you mentioned, Professor, some diametric difference in the approach to teaching children. I don't get it. The difference is that representatives of the Platform and other environments 'Cause that's not what the Platform thinks. They believe that school education needs to be accelerated and started early at 6 years of age. You think it should be at the age of seven. I know this isn't a dispute. It's just mathematical. Could you show the reasons why, in your opinion, a Polish child at the age of 6 is immature to start learning? Another question. Would you notice that a child who will then start school will later become mature? Are you in favour of dads and moms, so-called young people with mustaches, sitting in school benches instead of working for bread, helping you or your parents? [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Maria Koc]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u70	You're welcome, Senator Lightning.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u71	I am very sorry, Senator, but these questions certainly go beyond my current role, that is, the role of the rapporteur of the committee. Perhaps I've gone beyond this role myself. I will answer your questions, but not as rapporteur. Okay? That's what we're gonna do. The point is that these issues were undoubtedly not so developed during the committee meeting. [[But the law is about school age...]] I'll answer you, but I'll answer you in a different way as a person who's about to speak. Okay? I think it'll make more sense from a formal point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u72	I thank the rapporteur very much. You're welcome. You're asking Senator Bonisławski a question. [[I have a formal motion.]] Please. Formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u73	Mrs. Marshal, before the Minister entered the podium, the questioning list was Jerzy Wcisła, which is my person. What's changed now that this list is completely different?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u74	Excuse me. I didn't see that. You are indeed a senator on the list. Perhaps at this point, before you speak, Senator Bonisławski... Please, you're on the list. I didn't notice. Senator Wczyła, you're welcome. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm looking at who the rapporteurs are in the courtroom. Why don't I ask Senator Spider my question...]] [[This gentleman's name isn't Tight.]] Excuse me, Mr. Senator, I didn't see it in my notes. Because in the notes of Marshal Bielan you are first Senator Wczyła, you will now speak to Senator Wczyła and then to Senator Bonisławski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u75	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Spider. It said here that you are introducing a vision. Visionaries don't usually talk about money, especially money that doesn't concern them. I'd like to ask you a question that keeps going. here it appears, i.e. measures to make changes in local governments. Has anyone studied the costs associated with these changes, the costs that local governments will incur? It is said here that places in kindergartens will not take much, but for example Wrocław says that they need to prepare 3,000 places in kindergartens for this transitional period. Has anyone tried to count these costs? Has anyone ever talked to local governments and analysed the situation in local governments after the amendment of this law? Where did the amount of 74 million PLN for kindergarten come from? I think from some research... Or is that the result of some kind of vision? I would like to know the answers to these questions. If the answer is that there has been no discussion with local governments, which are the main educational institutions in Poland, I would like to ask why they have not been discussed with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u76	Thank you very much. Is that a question for Senator Zarin? [[Senator Spider.]] You're welcome. Mr. Senator? Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u77	Mr. Senator, I'm certainly not gonna answer that question completely, because we didn't get that information at the committee meeting, because that wasn't the question that was asked. I'm sure there's been a consultation, but were they conducted as you asked, and if such data... I don't know. I'd ask you to redirect this question to the Minister when he gets back. On the other hand, with regard to this sum of 74 million, as the Minister has said, there will be an increase in the subsidy in the future budget. That sum of 74 million fell, and I would say, I repeat, for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Bonisławski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u79	Thank you. Also to Senator Spider, if I may. I see him as the only one left on this team... It's in the article. 15 says that science is mandatory until the age of eighteen, i.e. the completion of middle school. As far as I can remember, one of the ideas tossed is the elimination of junior high. I also remember from the statements of the then vice-marshal of the Senate, and now the marshal, that the program has already been prepared. By PiS, of course, the liquidation of junior high schools. Will this article be amended next year? I don't really understand, because if elementary school lasts eight years, and this is age. Seventeen years... So, when will this study be mandatory?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u80	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u81	Mr Senator, this question goes beyond what was discussed at the committee meeting. This case, this limit number of 18 years has not been discussed. As far as the programme and activities related to the liquidation of junior high schools are concerned, from what Minister Zalewska, as I recall, has said, this proposal will be made and there will be a discussion on this issue. As a self-government officer, I talk to many self-government or teachers... Well, there's a division: some are in favour of eliminating middle school as soon as possible, and some are against. Are most of them... This case isn't settled for today. As I said, the Minister said that this will be reported, the programme will be presented and the discussion will be held. There was nothing at the committee meeting about the subject you were asking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u82	Thank you very much, Senator. The question is, Senator Florek, please. Are you the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u83	Yes, I am. Also for Mr. Spider, although actually for the Minister, but since she's not here... However, I will refer to what the Minister has said. The minister said the schools weren't ready for the six-year-olds' party. Ladies and gentlemen, you like to rely on the NIK protocols for checks. Then read the protocols in this regard. There is talk everywhere about the fact that ninety percent of the schools were prepared in this respect. You don't give the state a chance to check it out next year. After all, it is only the first year of operation of this solution, so it is difficult for us to have accurate data on this subject. I'll have two questions. I'll get back to the teachers' issue in the first one. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland we have 650 thousand teachers and over 5 million students, i.e. 8 students per teacher. Two years ago, I had the opportunity to speak to the Prime Minister of Brandenburg. When we were discussing educational matters, I asked him a similar question. And he told me that they had 14 students per teacher. He added something like this: if you're in Brandenburg, don't repeat how many you have in your home so that our teachers don't know it. I'm sure it's from the penny we have. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm an engineer and I can count. So let me put it this way: if we have 1 year of primary school education, then the question just came up. Also in junior high... This is a consequence. If there's no 1 year in junior high and there's 3 years of school, how many teachers... There are no miracles, you can't presume that... you can't move all teachers to kindergarten because it's impossible. I'm sure there'll be extra... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] I'm almost done. There will certainly be additional health leave for this purpose. Therefore, my question is: how many teachers will lose their jobs? That's the first question. And second question. It's about conflicts that are definitely going to be between local governments and the probation officer, because right now, the probation officer is going to decide to close the school. So far there have been problems with the resolutions on the liquidation of schools, and now there will be a clear issue The probation officer will decide. And if the school is, I don't know, 20, 30 students, it's the government's expense. I am therefore convinced that many cases will be conflicting. So far, we've been able to work this out in terms of closing schools. These non-public schools... There's a lot to discuss. And it's all good, but... [[Question, Mr. Senator.]] ...is obviously a question of conflict. Aren't you afraid of conflicts between local governments and the parole board? 'Cause they're definitely gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u84	As far as the first question is concerned, it's difficult for me to answer specifically. I know the Minister had problems with that question. Especially since, as I say, this question was not at the committee's meeting. On the other hand, this year, which is already coming to an end, some 260 thousand children were born in Poland. Twenty years ago it was exactly 726,000... [[About 540,000...]] Excuse me? [[In 1973 it was 543 thousand.]] Yeah, but I was talking about the number from 20 years ago, then it was 726,000. And over this twenty-year period, the number of children so decreased that almost 100% ... And has the number of schools, teachers been reduced in proportion to this? And so, you can say, half as much money, because if the subsidy is for a child... What are local governments supposed to do now? What are the problems here? Will there be funding? I realize that because in front of these dilemmas... [[But the minister said no schools would be decommissioned.]] [[These will be questions for the Minister. Then we'll ask them.]] But I say... that's the situation, and you have to keep a certain number of schools and teachers, and there's no money. In turn, you mentioned that there would be extra money for teachers, well, for kindergarten. I'm just handing over what I received from the Minister intel.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. You're asking Senator Piotr Zientarski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u86	Mr. Senator, the committee was talking about too much authority, completely unnecessary probation. I have a specific question. Namely in the article. paragraph 1 of that amending law is inserted. 6aa, which says that the establishment by the county or municipality of the unit referred to in paragraph 1. 6a, followed by a positive opinion from the probation officer. I'll remind you what that mouth is all about. 6a. Well, the county and the municipality can establish This means that this is optional. and run public teacher training facilities, teacher training facilities and pedagogical libraries as part of their own tasks. The point is that at the moment local authorities are limited to this possibility, because a positive opinion of the curator is needed to establish a pedagogical library. Right? And that's a binding opinion. What do you say about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u87	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u88	It's so hard for me to say that as a parole officer, I'm sure the parole officer will make the decision. If he says so, the local authorities will certainly be obliged to sanction it. But there seems to be some kind of appeal and possible further action to open such a school, facility or library.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u89	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Antoni Szymanski a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u90	I am directing this question, Mrs. Marshal, to Senator Zientarski, the rapporteur of the committee. Mr. Senator presented this bill, which is presented under the slogan "Opportunity for parents to choose," as if there was no possibility in the other direction. You claimed that the parents of six-year-olds had a difficult opportunity to make the child go to school early, and you said that then it was necessary, the opinion of the guidance counselor is necessary. Has the committee taken into account that it is not necessary to present such an opinion, because I refer to the relevant article "The principal of the school receives a child if the child has received preschool education in the year preceding the school year? So the opinion is only needed in certain exceptional cases. Therefore, the password under which this law goes is entitled. Does the senator, under the influence of this provision that I read, agree that there is a free choice, making the child go to school early, and it does not necessarily require an opinion from the clinic, because it is only necessary in exceptional cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u91	Mr. Senator, there seems to be some kind of misunderstanding. I was talking about a completely opposite situation, namely that in the previous law, this requirement was in force. In my opinion, it could be changed. If this were changed, then this freedom of parents... That's what I'm talking about, and I'm supporting it. After all, we were also talking about the fact that the law could be improved, that the existing law could have been improved in this direction in order to eliminate the obtaining of these additional certificates. That's what I'm talking about. If such a change were to occur, it would be balanced, on the one hand and on the other hand, that the parents' opportunities would be the same without the need for special, additional steps. Yeah, that's what I meant. And I absolutely agree that it was undoubtedly a problem for parents, it was a restriction that I think should be abolished. But we have another law that goes in a different direction and doesn't just apply to school duty.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u92	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the Chamber: Still rapporteur.]] Wait a minute. [[I would like to refer to you, although I know that the question was not addressed to me.]] Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u93	I know that this question was not addressed to me, but it was during the meeting of our committee that the Minister referred to this problem, very clearly stressing that this is the compromise. It follows from this assumption that parents of 6-year-old children who believe that their children can go to the first class will not be hindered by the path of entering school, unlike the current situation, in which, in turn, to save a 6-year-old child from going to school, a lot of formal and substantive activities had to be carried out that caused... And so the balance is very good, these are large numbers, because probably 20% The Minister reported this percentage. 20%, if I remember. 6-year-olds were rescued by their parents' very far-reaching determination. Now it won't be a problem, parents will save their six-year-old son and their six-year-old daughter in a clear, fast way, getting this baby into first class. There is only a pre-school requirement; this 1 year is necessary in kindergarten. This is, of course, a record with consequences, but only that.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u94	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for you. Maybe I can refer it to Professor Zarin. Mr. Senator, you said there would be a choice of parents. But it's art. 16 improved by you states that it will not only be the choice of parents, because the child must, first, benefit from preschool education in advance for a year... And that's reasonable, logical, and there's no objection. But I don't quite understand... Why are you introducing the fact that it must also have an opinion from psychological counseling so that it can start at the age of six... [[Or!]] [[It's either there or there.]] (Vice Marshal Maria Blanket: Quiet, please. Please, the senator will finish the question and then the professor will answer it. Here you go.) Oh, I'm sorry, the word "or" got away from me in the first... Yeah, I'm sorry, actually, one of two. Good. Thank you. No question, I'll withdraw it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u96	You've withdrawn the question. Good. Now you're asking Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Question for the rapporteur, Senator Spider. But by the way, before the senator gets here, I'd like to ask the marshal a question. Until now, there has always been such a practice that when the debate on the bill continued, it always took place in the presence of the Minister. I'll tell you more: the situation was even that if the minister wasn't there, the vending machine was announced by the marshal's break and we were waiting for the minister or the late minister to return. Has the situation changed now, and now we can proceed over laws without a minister? A question for the Senator rapporteur, Senator Spider. Mr. Senator, did you at the committee meeting ask about the problem of how schools will function this next school year when very few children go to first class? For example: in primary school in Łeba And this is the only school in this town. There will be two people who will go to the first class; in the primary school in Cewice, in the same district, Lęborski, in the first class, 7 people will be required to attend school; in other schools in this municipality there will be less than 7 people. How are these schools and the first classes supposed to function? Have you considered this case? Because the intention of the bill, as I understand it, is... As initiators, you are rather dissuading children, the younger six-year-olds, to go to primary school. Yes? Or, rather, the minister and all of you will urge these six-year-olds to go to school to actually have these schools and the first classes function? Have you discussed these issues, or have you wondered how such a school is really going to work? And the second question, also for the senator. The Minister claimed, too, that education subsidies are increasing. Good. But the education subsidy has always, until now, been connected... to take into account various conversions and indicators, and depended on the number of children going to school, and basic, and middle school, and upper secondary school. So here, this subsidy will ultimately decrease because the number of children in primary schools will be less, because it will be reduced by a whole year. Is that so? Has anything changed in the primary school funding system? Did you analyze this at the committee meeting? And this situation will be particularly complicated in 2017, because this conversion will be taken into account during this period, and probably even should be taken into account from this year, because it takes into account how many people go to school according to the system, the central register of pupils, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator... [[Still on the matter of the Minister's absence...]] The Minister promised... [[Because practice has been so... so the practice is changing, right?]] Mr. Senator, nothing changes. [[No, nothing's changed, it's happened before.]] You are now responding to the rapporteur's senators. The Minister promised she'd be back right after the votes. The senator is the last of the senators to sign up for the question, so after that, we will announce a recess and return to the session when the Minister is back in the courtroom. But now I'm asking you to respond to the rapporteur's senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u99	Mr. Senator, in terms of the next year's subsidy and the sum of 74 million, the Minister exchanged it and did not indicate whether it was due to the conversion or not, just this sum for next year Because I would remind you that it is only about next year's budget that will increase by 74 million. As far as the next years are concerned, as indicated by the Minister, there will be an ongoing discussion on how to change funding in the following years. And as for the details you asked me after the committee meeting, I can't answer that, because the minister didn't give us those details.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u100	Thank you very much. High Izbo, because the list of senators who would like to ask the senators of the rapporteurs has run out, and because there is not yet a Minister of Wargocka in the Chamber who participates in the votes in the Seym, I will announce a half-hour break. I hope that, after the break, the Minister will be back with us, and then you can ask her questions... [[But can we have a discussion or not?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: With the consent of the senators, we can have a discussion.]] [[Voice from the room: There is no objection.]] [[Gentlemen, senators, we're listening to your marshal.]] High Izbo, there is a conclusion that we should not interrupt the session, but proceed with the discussion. [[Voice from the room: There is no objection.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, as there is no objection, we are discussing and discussing further. Please take your seats. When the Minister returns, we will stop the discussion and return to the point where you will be able to ask the Minister questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that 18 senators have signed up for the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Senator Żaryn inspired me with his distinction, which generally makes sense, although I do not agree with him on the details of the attitude presented by the Civic Platform in the field of education and presented by Law and Justice. I would have defined it very briefly. There's conservatism on the one hand, and sometimes even ultraconservativeism. As in your case, Senator. On the other hand, the conservative-liberal attitude with great openness to the world and the belief that education is only one element of the process of raising a man throughout his life, but an element of great importance and increasing importance in a modern, globalized world, because it gives man the chance to survive in ever more difficult conditions. Information is spreading at the speed of light today, and threats and challenges are spreading along with it. These challenges will only be met by a man who has been collecting knowledge and developing skills from the very beginning. And I will confess to you, Mr. Senator, that when it comes to the distinction that you have made, I would be delighted by such a romantic vision of returning to a quiet village with a mansion to which you ride in winter sleighs and in the summer with a carriage where governess or governesses teach children, more in French than in English. But it's in the past, and there's just no going back to that idea. At the moment, the American doctors in Boston are ordering an evaluation of the radiographic photo, which, at the time they sleep, is taken in India or China, and they receive a ready description of the photo the next morning. Everything's going fast and easy. These are the effects of globalization processes. Our young people, in order to meet all the challenges I am talking about, should, in my opinion, begin as early as possible. collecting knowledge and developing skills under good management He didn't miss it, and not when parents don't have time for children, with a computer where five-year-olds, six-year-olds, or seven-year-olds jump into whatever stuff, sometimes, and even very often they pull out... find content in the computer that destroys their personality... That's why only in a targeted way... And such an education directed in my opinion is able to give a Polish school. And I say this, of course, on the basis of statistics, but also on the basis of my own personal experience as a father of three children, including the youngest son who currently goes to the second grade of primary school. Of course, a condition for good education is that the school is not excluded from the system of connected vessels, which is European education. I understand it more than education in the European Union. And that we will adapt not only the age of starting initial teaching, but also the teaching methodology and the specific cult of knowledge, knowledge that leads to innovation in behavior. The point is to keep what others have invented before, but perhaps better, and to avoid what others have spoiled, or to collect good experiences, and to reject bad experiences. And in the case of this one particular, fissure issue, in such a section as to start initial teaching, I think that if 19 European Union countries have decided to send six-year-olds to schools, 5 countries, I separate England, Scotland, Wales, I treat them separately, namely England, Scotland, Wales, Malta and the Netherlands have decided to send five-year-olds to schools, and Ireland even four-year-olds, while only 7 other countries, including Bulgaria, Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, i.e. the post-Soviet countries, have remained under the school obligation of seven-year-olds, it is better to adapt the threshold for starting initial education in us to the majority of our experiences and to examine what they are having effects rather than to reverse what has already been done. In addition, I believe On the basis of statistics or on the basis of general knowledge, and also on the basis of his own experience, the kindergarten continues to entertain, and the school teaches and that this is the difference. And here it is not only about the fact that in school you sit in benches, and in kindergarten very often in cuckoos, but also about the fact that the purpose of preschool education is different, and another is the purpose of school education. Studies show that 6-year-olds are psychophysically prepared in gremio already for initial education offered by the Polish school. Studies also show that if six-year-olds and seven-year-olds are in the same classes, the effect is the same, i.e. six-year-olds are able and ready to achieve similar learning outcomes. Therefore, I believe that the counterreform proposed by the PiS or... [[Counter-reformation.]] ...change is a bad change, not a good change. I think it introduces chaos into the education system, chaos that is completely unnecessary at the moment. It is worth mentioning the data here, even if I bore you a little bit. In recent years, a great deal of work has been done on technicians, i.e. ninety-seven percent have been able to adapt our schools to the requirements that result from the fact that they are six-year-olds and not seven-year-olds. And so: 91% facilities have playgrounds prepared for the youngest, 98% facilities have suitable teaching aids in the rooms for the youngest, 93% of rooms have games and toys, 82% there are well-prepared libraries, 90% of the rooms have adequate furniture, and the children's classrooms have 97% of the children's children's classrooms. facilities, 97% schools also gave their students the opportunity to eat in the cafeteria, etc. Well, then, Minister Wargock. With all due respect to her The argument raised here about a toilet which is not in the classroom, but is in the corridor, is used by such a Heglow method of not seeing the facts, it is that if the facts do not confirm our theories, in this case your theories, the worse for the facts. The facts confirm that Polish schools have prepared infrastructure for initial teaching, starting with six-year-olds, in the main majority, in ninety-six percent. Mrs. Marshal, not to prolong... I also believe that the state, on the basis of the opinion of some parents, is consciously unaware of the opinion of the latter part, and the latter part is those who are in favour of six-year-olds going to school. I also believe that there will be a problem with the empty classrooms, that there will be a problem with this absent yearbook, which will follow us all the time in elementary school and through middle school, through high school and finally through college, and that these estimated 10 I read that in the estimates of the Ministry of National Education, who would leave their children, for fear, in the previous class, and those 10 and 15% Parents, as you estimate at MEN, who decide to send their children to school earlier in relation to this bill... It will not fill this empty yearbook and it will be a big problem when it comes to the continuity of education, such a generational education in Poland. In conclusion, here's what I'm going to say. I believe that you are offering us here, in this room, and because of us Poles all over Poland, a swimming pool where you have not checked for water. You're not sure if there's water in this pool, and by the majority of you want to decide that society is going to jump, you want to force the public to make a head jump into a pool where there may be no water. This is due to the fact that you have not prepared, even for us, senators, no analyses, no expertise, no opinions, except for the one you mentioned, ordered, and there was no report from the Legal Office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u102	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u103	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am particularly concerned about one thing that no one has been able to explain to me so far. I tried shy at the committee meeting, and now I repeat my question... We're all worried about these generations, everyone leaning down on this case with concern. For me, it's incomprehensible to be in such a hurry to... I can't understand it. I'm even trying to understand what we're going to be discussing today, which is a tax on certain financial institutions. As an entrepreneur, I can understand why we are going to debate this today. I am also able to understand that we will be here in a moment to discuss and debate the media law, and I am able to understand why you are in such a hurry. Even the Court... But I don't understand why we're in such a hurry in this case. In fact, at the committee meeting today, the Minister could not answer directly why we are in such a hurry. I went to the trouble and reached the document which recently entered the Sejm from the Polish Teachers' Association. I wish you'd invited... Mr President, thank you very much for allowing the representative today, even though he was not invited, to present his comments. These comments are very, very substantive. I want to repeat some of them here. As far as the school obligation of a seven-year-old is concerned, the Polish Teachers' Association has a negative assessment of the increase in the age of the school obligation. It points out that such regulation reduces the chances of Polish children to make fuller use of their potential and educational success comparable to the achievements of students from most European Union countries, where the age of starting school is Five or six years. The relationship does not share the view that 6-year-olds in Poland do not show willingness to study at school. It's hard to deny that most of them are ready for this. No doubt civilization changes have an impact on this. An increase in the level of education of society, as well as the progressive dissemination of pre-school education. According to the Polish Teachers Association, the withdrawal of the reform of the school obligation for six-year-olds will disorganize the education system. They have the right, ladies and gentlemen, to make such a claim, because they have examined this very gradually and effectively. Successfully in primary school, middle school, upper secondary school and in college, there will be a shortage of one year of students. The bill does not provide for a situation where only a few parents decide to send six-year-olds to the first class in a given village. Thus, the question arises as to whether the local government will have an obligation to form a branch regardless of the number of students. The practice suggests that local self-government units will begin to combine classes or open collective classes in a given area. It's hard to say in a situation like this. to ensure that parents have the right to choose and that pupils have the right to study at their place of residence. Combined classes will result in a reduction in the quality of education. According to the association, the changes will result in a significant number of early-school teachers being fired in the first phase. What a number it will be, it is difficult to determine now, but it is extremely worrying that this issue has not been raised in the explanatory memorandum to the bill at all. I repeat: this issue has not been raised at all. The legislator silently assumes that things will resolve themselves down there. That's not gonna happen. For example, in Małopolska there are currently 2,000 495 branches of the first classes; the number of third classes is similar. No one is able to determine the number of first class branches to be opened in September 2016. It would be worth checking in the ministerial educational information system how many third-class branches currently operate on a national scale. This will help estimate the number of teachers at risk of losing their jobs. The release of such changes cannot be avoided, and the declarations of the Minister of National Education are extremely shortsighted in this respect, are not supported by any calculations. It is also not known how many parents will decide to leave their child for one more year in the first class. It can't even be estimated how many parents will choose to send six-year-olds to the first class. There is only a certain number of about 90 000 pupils who were granted a deferral of their school obligation in the 2015/2016 school year. I will finish presenting this opinion with one more question, and I have chosen only a few. In the event of the return of six-year-olds to kindergarten, it will be practically impossible to promote pre-school education for three-year-olds. Contrary to their parents' expectations, the right of the youngest children to preschool education in practice will become illusory. The idea of leaving the child in first class for the second year also raises serious doubts. We would like to point out that, in the opinion of experts, the introduction of the possibility of continuing to study in the first grade of primary school in the 2016/2017 school year, of course at the request of parents, by 7-year-olds who started their first year of school in 2015/2016 as six-year-olds, does not really serve the proper development of the child. The child will remain on the same level of teaching as he was, while the other children will go to the second grade, may cause him to feel failure. And, ladies and gentlemen, the second document I've been in possession of for a dozen days is the Polish County Union... This is a serious document. I'm not gonna put it all together. He was sent to the head of the Sejm Office. I think the senators will be so kind as to read this document. From this document I'll comment on it. There's one concern. Just like the Minister didn't answer at the committee meeting, or at the moment, in the first part of her speech, to the question of where this poor government is going to take the money... I appeal to the words of the Minister who fell here, from this stand, that the debate between the government and the local government will be only after the law in question has entered into force. You know, I'm an entrepreneur, and I can't imagine making decisions without knowing anything about economics. This is a rare reversal. I'm saying all this today, in front of you because... I've traveled around in my district of several local government officials. And the colors weren't important. They said as it was written in the document, It is done in haste, written on the knee. We're not making money now, and I think we're gonna lose the money for every extra cost. Your grandfather speaks to four grandchildren, some of whom have gone to school since the age of six, and some of them from the seventh. I'll vote against it. And I urge you to consider whether it is still worth a little time for a fair, partnership debate. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Adam Gawada to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One can say that we are all participants in the bill discussed here in the sense that either now or earlier, in the future... Either we are educators, or in our families or among our friends and acquaintances, the youngest are raised. The future of Poland, our country, depends on the future of the youngest generation. So I think we all want this period to be very important... For everything to be done on the basis of the best standards. I will return here in one sentence to Senator Klich's statement. I think that in some ways we should answer the question of the concept, as defined, of the ultra-conservative right side of Law and Justice... [[Conservative.]] But the senator said so. [[Conservative.]] It doesn't matter. Conservative and liberal... I have always been associated with the phrase "liberal Platform" that the Platform gives its voters a choice. It gives the choice of entrepreneurs in a situation where they decide about the company's fate, gives the choice of taxpayers when it comes to the way of taxation, but also gives the choice of the most important issue, the one we are discussing today, i.e. the generations that are to be about our development in the future, about Poland's sovereignty. And I think that defining this is also the essence of the matter discussed here. And I think my statement somehow explains our attitude. Well, in my opinion, if we were to reason like that... This handshake of parents or the possibility of co-decision on the future of the young generation through parents is, by definition, a defined liberal approach. And in my opinion, it is not a wall or a second league of the European Union. Let us try to set these new standards for the formation of the young generation, based on the highest values in Europe, that is, on what results... from our families. I'm a simple engineer, but before I decided that I wanted to be a miner and a geologist, I took some values out of the house. It's about raising. Of course, knowledge and science are very important, but it's really what allowed me to make the right choice, which I'm happy about today. And I think that all of us, as we are here, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators... none of us, maybe one person... We all started education at the age of 7. And it's not like that either. Of course, I would not like to develop the subject of these threats that you have been talking about as a result of the ease of access to the Internet, although they are very serious, but I think that when it comes to the debate about the return to the duty of seven-year-olds and leaving this obligation for six-year-olds... At this point, we should give up, that is, not at all, but at this point. It seems to me that the best decision is the decision of the family, the parents, supported by the opinions of the grandparents in terms of whether such a six-year-old and earlier five-year-old who reaches the age of school duty is already prepared. It's best to talk about examples. The best examples are examples from our surroundings, friends, families, etc. I myself am the godfather of Mai, a very bright and intelligent girl who develops through fun, and I would not want any parent in Poland to be stressed that he will have to apply for an opinion on the possibility of going to school for his child at the age of 7 and not for 6 years, as he is now. We're just changing optics. We look at the child from the perspective of the concern of the parent and possible decision-making, not possible, through the parents. Because no one else knows their child better than their parents. Even if they're eating And that's very good. The opinion of grandparents or relatives, this decision is the best and no decision of officials can replace it. And we're really debating this today. And if we say... If I hear in this courtroom that this bill is to discourage Poles from going to school at the age of six... That's not true. It's not like we're dissuading. Every parent, if he sees that his child is developing well, that he is developing well primarily emotionally, in the sense that he is already prepared to learn... After all, nothing prevents a child at the age of 5 from sending to kindergarten to prepare for this school period by playing, and at the age of 6 without any additional requirements can start education. Today we are talking about the fact that... in the opinion of the Platform we should not change this law, because after all, a parent can submit an application, he can ask for an opinion. But the parent first of all has to go this way, and on this road he will seriously wonder if someone will make a decision for him that will be bad. And that's what we want to sort out. It's not really a matter of us causing any kind of mess. In fact, today we are making a decision that sounded out loud four years ago, when, unfortunately, you did not listen to the voices of the citizens who demanded that the parent be able to decide, you did not take into account a million signatures collected. Today, I think... My voice in this discussion is also directed at giving this bill a chance and, above all, trusting parents who certainly do not wish their children harm. Surely the role of every parent is to bring them right into adult life. I don't know if one argument is being held from the side and hidden in some way. Although in this room he sounded quite strong. It's really about bringing an 18-year-old to the labour market. If we go back to school duty for seven-year-olds today, then We know that very well. The young man will be ready to enter the labour market only at the age of 19. And I don't know if that's what the Civic Platform was all about before. I think that the countries of the European Union did not sweep this argument under the carpet. I firmly believe that parents always make the best decision, and that's why I'll be behind the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll admit, I don't really understand why all the excitement about the bill. This law is nothing more than ensuring normal standards and respecting the right of parents to send their children to schools when parents themselves consider it appropriate. I will remind you that even in the times of the Polish People's Republic there was a possibility. I actually went to elementary school in 1964 when I was six years old. That's what my parents decided. There was a psychologist's permission to do that, and I started school early. It was also a possibility then, and no one crushed a copy of it. It's even better now because you don't have to have mandatory consent from a psychologist, a school counselor. Or a so-called specialist. It is enough that parents, if they want to, decide not to use their child to go to school at the age of seven. Of course, it will have to pass a zero at the age of five. Then automatically, after submitting the relevant documents, it will be possible for the child to go to school a year earlier. And even if for some reason it didn't finish a zero, it would still be possible. Then, after consulting a specialist, he can begin to carry out his school duties earlier, at the age of six. All this fuss and saying it's some kind of unknown thing and going back to the past... These are, in my deep conviction, unjustified allegations. They have a political context, of course, because the project of six-year-olds to schools was consistently promoted by the previous government team. It was implemented in such a way that parents' wide gaming was effectively discouraged from this idea. Instead of choosing which would be rational and where a parent could decide whether a six-year-old... That's what we're proposing right now. If the parent thinks it should be sooner, then go ahead, it will be possible. And that's the realization of modern politics, not some vavnivnilovka. Six years and the end, i.e. supposed progress and modernity. That's how somebody made it up some years ago. I don't want to imply, and I don't want to get what kind of consideration was behind all of this. Nature considerations, I would say, much deeper, economic, and not only that, so to speak, the argument concerning the way children are educated. Please note how this reform was carried out. The action started. Rescue the little ones. Hundreds of thousands of entries were recorded on her website. There's been a whole movement. Few of this has been prepared a draft referendum on this matter that is important to the public and has collected nearly a million signatures which the supposedly democratic and civic Civic Platform has thrown into space in one vote, that is to say it knows better than its parents that state officials know better than their parents It smells a little bit of the past to me. And that they will decide for their parents. And now please note that at the moment you are trying to make smoke, you are trying to cause social confusion, because it is supposed that you do not know what is wrong in Poland, since PiS has come to power. First of all, I would like to thank those who have prepared this bill very warmly. I am glad that this is one of the first projects, because it is actually one of the first projects. It was announced during the election campaign, we implement our demands, the voters trust us, give us a mandate to just make these changes. And as for this reform, which was prepared by the Civic Platform, I will no longer complain and remind you of further reports by NIK and other institutions about what happened with six-year-olds in schools: that schools were not prepared that the children were on the second shift and would come home from school at night because they went to school at 14:00 or 15:00. Finally, Minister Simonides in this House was asked about this reform, notabene by Professor Chybicka, then Senator of the Civic Platform, now Member of the Civic Platform. Professor Chybicka asked Minister Simonides, who referred to this reform, a simple question: 'And has this reform been consulted with the Polish Paediatric Society?'. And Minister Simonides here, from this tribune, replied: "Yes, of course." And another question: was she consulted in writing? Answer: Yes, of course. This is what Professor Chybicka stood up to and said: "I happen to be the President of the Polish Paediatric Society since 2006, and I can say to you that no letter has been sent to us from MEN. And that's pretty much what the six-year-old reform looked like. That is why I would like to say from this stand that I strongly support this project. I hope that the current government will finally finish the phase of ideological experiments and others at the Polish school and that finally the Polish school will not be stressful for children, but even more stressful for Polish parents. Because these constant changes that are taking place have led to the situation that at the moment it is a really very serious segment of our public and social life, which requires a deep repair to lead to some simple Polish education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Wind's next vote in the discussion. You're welcome, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have a speech in front of the High House from the time when this reform was introduced, when compulsory school age was reduced to six years. It's actually fully up-to-date. I could read it here. From what has already happened in this House today, it is clear that these are two different visions of society, as I am about to say. I am very pleased that the issue of restoring the school's starting age has been taken up so quickly. This is based on the basic right of parents to raise their children. And the parents have repeatedly and unambiguously expressed their views on this matter and their voice is as if to answer questions raised at the committee meeting and in the Senate about the opinions of experts. But parents are denied competence in this area. I heard this at the meeting of today's Committee on Science, Education and Sport. It's worth reading the constitution here, but it's still worth it. A million signatures were collected under a referendum request on this issue, but the Sejm and the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL rejected all such initiatives at first reading. Today, only the government of the PO is spoken of, forgetting the coalition. Yes, I had the opportunity to hear, personally, how Minister Shumilas in the Seym Hall from the Seymary's Speaker said with great determination that the government would be determined to implement this reform. That was an answer to my parents' request. For the second time, parents spoke in parliamentary elections, voting for the Law and Justice, which openly as one of the important points was the restoration of school age. It also said that this would take place during the first 100 days of the government. Therefore, the argument that there is no opinion is unfounded here. This is a simple restoration of the previous state. There are opinions on competitiveness in the labour market in the European Union and in the world. Well, I am convinced that it is exactly the other way around, let us consider the successes of our plumbers in Ireland, in the European Union, but also professors in the United States and Germany. Maybe this order should be the other way around, but we respect all competitions. Just a good broad education brings fruit. Perhaps some suffer from family upbringing, in a traditional, Catholic, Christian and patriotic family, where values are passed on, as we have learned today in this Chamber, unmodern. They're state-of-the-art. Some people get hurt. Some people used to say that they were ashamed of Poland, that patriotism was superstition. I do not point out the authors of these statements so that they may not arouse unnecessary emotions here, but we know these statements and we know their authors. Good education is not only a message of knowledge, but a skill building, also analyzing and synthesising skills, creativity. The information society and the knowledge-based economy are currently being built around the world. The key is the ability to create and process knowledge. These skills will decide on the success of the development of societies, including, and perhaps above all, the economy, the innovation of the economy. We know that IT and communication and information technology are today one of the specialties of Poland, that we have great successes and scientific and economic. Well, first-class school education is about building knowledge structures. It is not that the child learns only simple knowledge, it is supposed to build an orderly vision of this knowledge from the beginning, and this ordering is more important than that knowledge. In the literature of the subject, age 7 is considered appropriate for the proper, full start of education. If there's fun in first grade, let's not call it school. That's when the question arises at all when this science begins. If there's fun in first grade, maybe there's fun in second grade too. Based on the opinion of many teachers and parents, we know that these deficits of six-year-olds are only revealed in the third and fourth classes. But if ideology or other superstition dominates, then these facts are less significant. It's like a critical view of the facts... Anyway, that's not what you see. Of course, the most important thing is the emotional immatureness of these children. Children support the computer and remote TV very well, but they are completely defenseless against emotions that are the basis for building human relationships. You are referring, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, to other countries, which is probably a weak argument, because there was an example of Finland, where children start school at the age of seven, and when it comes to the successes of Finland, we would like to get close to them. I'm not talking about stigmatizing entire societies anymore. I would like to quote this statement from the committee's meeting: an ungrateful group of states. Well, I don't know if you should ask the author for an apology, as it was today in this House. There's something that when a person stigmatizes someone, it's okay, and when someone else does it, it's okay. That's bad. Well, there's an expression here today that's threatening... What's the argument? They're emotions, aren't they? Let's talk about facts, not emotions. I think it's extremely important... Because the fact that there are two visions, I think we understand a little. And perhaps the greatest advantage of this law is that it restores freedom and restores parents to the right to decide. And there was a compulsion. So that this issue is extremely, extremely important. I have to say, we're rubbing a little bit on the social engineering problem here. We read a little at Orwell's, in 1984 and others... The question arises: who in the state has the right to stimulate changes in the mentality and system of values of the whole nation? Is there such an instance in a democratic state and in a state of law? Because if you do something like this against your parents' will, is it a rule of law and is it a democracy? And yet we are talking about the auxiliary role of the state. It is the opinion of the Ombudsman of May 2014, which states that the limitation of the influence of parents on the education of children at school and in kindergarten is acceptable. The Constitutional Tribunal held in April 2014 that it was consistent with the constitution, family and parental rights... And the constitution in the article. 48 states that parents have the right to raise their children according to their own beliefs. So what? So where's the constitution? Where are we? Previously, there was talk of the labour market, about contributions to the Social Security Office. And we know that there is unemployment, that at the same time the retirement age has been increased, so, you can say, unemployment has been increased even more... I have to say that... there were also assessments of stigmatization in the context of repetition of the class. Well, we're about to figure out that taking negative grades is also going to be stigmatizing. And somebody's gonna go to court because they gave him a negative grade, and he's less capable. And he's gonna say it's not fair. I mean, that's the kind of thinking that's gonna lead to a collapse. And civilized, and social, and economic, and any other. I have to say this: my diplomats went on scholarships, mainly to Portugal, but even more often to the UK, and there in 10 months they did Master of Philosophy. The English did it in 3 years, the Poles did it in 10 months. So maybe we shouldn't be so obsessed with... and so on our knees. Because university rectors are alerting you that college candidates are getting weaker by now. We can't give in to the mods, we can't ruin the good. And above all, there's always been a choice. My previous speaker has already talked about this. You could always send six-year-olds to school. It's the parents who know best what's good for their children. And besides, this law provides them with a constitution. Let's leave them the choice. That is why I fully support the adoption of the law without amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u110	Thank you, Senator. Senator Łukasz Mikołajczyk, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u111	Dear Marshal! High Senate! I will address a few issues here as a parent, but also as a longtime principal of primary school. I'll start with the water in the pool, Mr. Senator Klich. I'm convinced that the Civic Platform didn't check if there was water in the pool when she introduced a bill on six-year-olds. [[She checked, she checked.]] We checked. The project abolishing the school obligation for six-year-olds is the result of a public consultation of more than one million citizens who signed a referendum in the case under discussion in 2013, but also of citizens who signed up to a citizens' bill restoring the school obligation from the age of seven. In 2012, there were 347 thousand people and in 2015 there were 287 000 430 people. I often talked to the parents of 6-year-old children and they raised the question that if they had the opportunity, they certainly wouldn't have let a 6-year-old child go to school. I am very pleased that Senator Zientarski noticed the problem that the Civic Platform has caused parents about this difficult path to postpone this obligation for 6-year-olds. Many parents, despite this difficult path, decided to go to the psych-pedagogical clinic and the child was delayed. Today we have a lot of these kids with a delay. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder what Senator Zientarski meant by saying that by 31 August we will not know the number of children to go to the first class. We will know this number, and that is because the criteria for recruitment to schools determine local governments together with the directors. So it's a matter of setting up a recruitment schedule. It never happened that the school principal didn't know the number of children the day before the organizational worksheet was created. He knew the estimated number. She could've turned one way or the other, but hardly significant... It's quoted here... We were talking about countries where seven-year-olds have to go to school. This may not be so important, but I will remind you of Finland, which is for us, educational people, a certain determinant in the field of education. There has been a school duty since the age of seven. Since six-year-olds are in schools, very many schools have had the problem of two shifts mentioned by the Minister. This problem was often raised today. As has been said here, the double number of students and the local base did not allow for one change. I would like to remind you that the amendment to the Act on the Education System is to postpone the deadline for the transformation of preschool branches into preschools in kindergartens From 1 September 2016 to 1 September 2019, the lead authorities are very pleased about this. That was a huge problem, too. Transformation, doing so by 1 September 2016... Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to extend I could do some things again, but I absolutely don't want to do it. I just want to point out that one of the studies that Stanford University scientists carried out, in which they discovered that children who went to school at 7 years of age instead of 6 years of age, were 73%. more attentive in class and less hyperactive. I am very happy as a parent, the principal of the school, the representative of the parents of the school where I was the principal, that today we are discussing this law and that again... that the parent will be able to decide when to send his child to school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u112	Thank you very much, Senator. I'd like to speak with Senator Robert Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'll tell you right away that I don't have any grandchildren yet, but I have three sons. I took two to Warsaw yesterday. We were at the stadium where there's a Lego exhibition, in the Old Town, and in a few other places. One is 6 years old and the other is 8 years old. One went to school as a seven-year-old and the other as a six-year-old. I often ask this six-year-old, "Michael, what's your status at this school?" Maybe you'd rather go back to kindergarten because it was better there, and have more fun than sitting in a bench? And he says, "No, Dad." I just want to go to school. When I ask you: "Bear, don't lie, I'm sure you prefer to be in kindergarten, he always answers: "No, I want to be in school." I'm not going to kindergarten. I want to be in school. And this confirms to me that what we did, what the Platform did, is right. Of course, just as we are divided here, just as many people have another idea for training their children, perhaps it is different for them, but I, as a parent, did not notice it. I'm even glad the baby went to school early because I have three children. I sent him to school in the United States and he made a high school in a year. It shows that our kids and they are capable, and they have opportunities, and today the world has changed so much that we must strive for better... If all Europe except Finland and, of course, Russia... Perhaps in Finland because the sun is little and older children braver go to school as it is darker, and they come back from school as it is darker, this higher school age is maintained, and for Russia I will not speak. But what are we worse at than Germany, Austria, Italy and all the other countries? Well, I can't understand that. Tonight, looking at this discussion... I really didn't like the words of the Minister who wasn't there. Because the first thing she said was that the Senate discussion was embarrassing. I don't think it's embarrassing that it's on a very good substantive level. No one here has offended anyone, no one here is going to insult anyone, and such words transferred from the Seym Chamber do not fit into this House, because for the last four years when I was a senator, no one here has had an embarrassing discussion, nor today, I think, we are not having such a discussion. It's a pity there isn't a minister. It's a pity there's been chaos again today. Because we ask the rapporteurs questions, the minister comes in, then he leaves, because there are votes somewhere. And the fact that we are discussing this so quickly today is also surprising, because we have time, because the school year starts in September. Unless there's a change we don't know about, and the school year will start another month. And we can talk about these things, and, as you can see after the discussion and after the number of people who speak or ask questions, this is important. I, on my profile, when this discussion started today, threw in the topic we were discussing, and it turned out that of course the votes were divided. But there are people's voices, and mostly they're... For example, my child went to school as a six-year-old. I'm in. It's not children who have a problem, and parents and teachers who find it hard to adapt. In addition, the system of teaching in classes IV-VI... etc. should be amended. Another voice: Our Michael His name is like my son, and this year he went as a mandatory six-year-old to school and should stay that way, not change. Listening to the State on the right, I feel that it is more about politics than about the welfare of children, it is more about showing who is in charge today, and that everything that the Platform has done is wrong. Today, no one has proved that schools are not equipped with classrooms, toilets, teaching rooms. We have beautiful schools. As reported here, in most cases, in more than 90% cases are adapted, and where they are not, it happens for various reasons: maybe because of bad self-government, maybe bad director, maybe for some other reason. But in general, our schools today are really adapted to people with disabilities, and to six-year-olds, and this isn't just about toilets, which maybe in one case are somewhere in the hallway. It's true that 1 million signatures have been collected. But what about the others? I didn't sign my name. And I think that today, for every bill that is being introduced, there will be a group of millions or more who will sign a referendum request. I think it wouldn't be difficult to collect a million signatures under the motion to revoke this government, which in turn does what we do, and not just us, but also people, we criticize so much. So, of course, you have to take it. That's part of it. But do I know that it is such a sound of reason that we must automatically stop this reform that we are dragging behind other countries? There's no consultation, there's no opinion of the Legal Bureau... Is this what the bill is supposed to be like? No expertise, no analysis... In conclusion, I'd like to, because I know that we're being chased by a law to amend the Civil Service Act... I haven't had a chance to ask the Minister, and since the situation is reversed, I'd like to make an amendment... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 30 is entered the provision that the candidate for the post of guardian of education emerges by means of a competition. If the competitions are to be closed, I would like to add the words "only and exclusively." Here it is described in detail, in a factual and wise way, and I will sign under it, but I would not want another bill to abolish this article tomorrow, if it is voted out today. So I'm putting this amendment in your hands, Marshal. [[Thank you very much.]] Again, I appeal for reason. I'm an example of this. Me and my baby. That you can reconcile all of this. Our children are neither stupid nor less developed, and today they need what has already been done so as not to take a step backwards. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u114	Thank you very much. The next written speaker is Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, but I don't see your senator. So please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Undoubtedly, with regard to today's discussion, the views of the state, ladies and senators, at least in this Chamber are divided, and if we add the Minister's speech, It's a shame she's not here, because I want to thank her for some factuality. They are even more divided, because they are contained in the space that Professor Żaryn, as it were, started using a reference to the Polish tradition in his argument. It's not the only one, is it? Well, Mr. Senator, I would like to point out to you that I am a Pole who is as old as he is, and this entitles him to talk about Polish tradition. The tradition of Jan Rulewski in the field of science was preceded by the attitude of his mother, who graduated from the 4th grade of elementary school. Recently, still in the Second Republic. Was it a tradition? Was it a tradition to only go to elementary school for four years? But she was reasonable enough to say to Jasi, "You learn more than I do, so you don't feed cows like I do." Or is this tradition what happened after that, that the young people were graduating? I'm talking about the infamous Polish People's Republic. In very pioneering conditions, not to say "cut off" to escape this evil, prewar past? Or is this tradition the current momentum of young people to stay in schools and universities? So I don't know which tradition you're referring to. The Minister, who did not speak about tradition, did not mention and did not stress the importance of your speech, did not say that school should be started at the age of 6 but talked about reality. I think what she said is the essence of today's discussion. It is true that there are more and more limited The concern of parents whether to go to a poorly prepared school will not cause a false start and that young people will not develop complexes for this reason. That's the truth. After this premature start, the Civic Platform actually drew conclusions and the investigation process until the age of 6 years, referred to here as basic, but not absolute, but made it necessary to spread it to age instalments. Today in a region where at least I had the opportunity to check progress in this area, just a few percent, just 6% or 8% Parents feel that children are not prepared for this kind of revolution. Nevertheless, local authorities confirm very good preparation for the implementation of this law. You are still using the argument: the voters have decided so. It has already been said here that out of the 27 million potential voters actually a million plus, let's say, their supporters, or family, so maybe two?3 million people signed that they see this problem differently. You have to respect that, too. Maybe it is the experience of some schools, the failure to prepare some local authorities or the inability to prepare them that caused such reactions. That's right. But whether it's the basis for accusing us of seeing another family to separate us from Europe, Professor Żaryn, or even forging a constitution that, for example, imposes. another condition for learning in the form of an obligation for 18 years? No one asks their parents and there is no discussion about how long the child should stay in school. Exactly. To be honest, there has been a lack of discussion in this discussion for many years about the time management of children and young people; it is such an ugly term. The Elbanowskis have spoken to me in a completely different argument than you, Professor, that is, that earlier going to school is taking childhood. Absolutely, it's taking your childhood, this free time of joy with your mother and father. I'm dreaming... I'd love to, too. Contrary to what my mother said, which I respected. Play soccer as long as possible, not go to school. Only I don't create the civilization conditions and I wouldn't be able to do to my children other beliefs than my mother did. Children and young people are not used in Poland. The state in your proposal speaks and focuses your attention on the age of beginning learning, but you do not wonder Professor Żaryn promised me an answer to that question. Why Polish young people have been in school benches for so long. According to you, according to your solution, young people at the age of 19 will get the status... I would like to say prom, but it turns out that this is just a testimonial of maturity. It used to mean a certain status, today it's just a documentary. Plus five more years of college... And that means fathers, mothers, mature people who explode with ingenuity. It's a Polish feature, an invention, even I would say such a far-reaching improvisation, a naive approach to life, how necessary to charge against various obstacles... These young people are forced to sit in benches. And according to your choice, with your indication, she'll be on the bench longer, she'll be on the bench a year longer. And that means a loss to these young people, because they won't be able to be mature, they won't be able to use their maturity practically in life, in income or family life, including perhaps in their travels, to conquer the world... It doesn't work either. And it's not just my assessment of a child's stay in schools. It turns out that if you take into account the calendar year, actually half this period of stay in schools 'Cause the school lasts all year long. It is intended for classes other than science. And let's talk about them. Of course there are holidays, of course there are retreats Despite the fact that the teaching of religion is weekly Of course there are days of cleaning up the Earth, there are trips... I don't mind the trips, but they're just here to keep the school quiet, because there, if they're connected schools, thirteen of them from middle school are taking a test. Of course, Christmas is celebrated. I don't mention here any more not to alienate the teaching community... And, of course, the school year ends, but not as the regulation, which has already been tried, but ends much before the official end of the school year. And little attention is paid to the fact that all of this is stealing from young people and children from their maturity and their childhood. But that's the kind of reflection I don't see in you. I see a strong philosophy: we carry out the electoral message. The arguments were: Poland, parents, those who were behind And those who were against it, but mostly those who were behind them. And also schools, local governments, I would even say that the whole Polish community, all of them brought in a lot of capital, so that the school would start with six-year-olds, although there was tension. And you want to cross it with one law, almost with one record. Therefore, while respecting parents' doubts, taking into account perhaps not the best preparation of schools, and seeking a compromise, I propose that this law under consideration today, which is now almost the final one, or almost 90%. children will take this responsibility, so we will have the opportunity to practice it in all aspects, not just on a small sample. It didn't come into force until next year. And I ask for this reflection, reflection not only on the electoral programme, but also on the children and young people, as well as on the majority who sent their children to school and now expects their child to finish his studies in the bench as needed, which is still as a girl or a boy, not as a mature daddy with a belly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u116	There are adjustments, right? [[Yes.]] Okay, thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! One could express the joy of discussing Polish education, because it is one of the key topics, one of the most important. If we really are to establish competition, competition with other communities, other nations, and if almost all countries see the chance to build the future 'Cause the only thing that matters is the perspective of the future. On the basis of knowledge, it is clear that a national debate on Polish education is needed, clear objectives are needed, what we want to achieve. This would not be easy, but it would allow the methods to adapt to the undoubtedly changing potential of the next generation, the potential of children 'Cause I think we can all agree that they're not the same kids we used to be, they're much smarter, they're growing faster, under different conditions, better than we had. Run it as soon as possible to use it. We all know. It's enough to lick even a little bit of development psychology that the sooner you start investing... Every grandmother knows that, every grandpa who wants to invest. I've got them all around me. They learn how to teach themselves. If we wanted a real debate, I'm sure there would be an agreement here. Perhaps we would differ in methods of reaching the goal, in what should be a priority, but we would come to an agreement. In the meantime, you are proposing something out of context, completely detached from reality. And, worst of all, your decision isn't based on facts at all. There was a lot of emotional talk here. And where are the numbers, where are the percentages, where are the tests, where are the professionals? Has anyone here presented at least one scientific proof that this is what's best for children? Was this about what we want to give them? All that was said was to bring it back, undo it, eliminate it. This is ridiculous. That should not be the case in this House. It's sad that even the Minister didn't quote the results of such research, she didn't say how she could be so sure it was good. The reference to parents who reminded me of the referendum and did not tell me how it was supposed to be, reminds me, as a man who works in different environments, also in the social assistance system, to say that the place of the child, I said this when the spokesperson for the rights of the child was here. It is as long as possible in the family, but in a good family, conscious family, not in everyone and not always. I think we should postpone any decisions about education until the state holding the rudder today presents a comprehensive program, prove that you know what you want to achieve, that you know why you want to lead children and middle school students, that you know how to do it. Then this debate would have its weight and seriousness and would not have been like a debate at a table about education that everyone knows about, because either he went to school or his kids go to school. It's the wrong level. I would like to tell you that I would be completely ridiculous if, knowing what you are preparing, I myself did not do something to find out what it was like. I thought the minister would come here with something like this. And in the form of a survey, I asked the professionals, those who run the schools, those who administer them, members of the pedagogical councils and representatives of all the interested communities what they thought about the changes you were proposing. I was right to fear that you would not care at all. I got a lot of answers. If you asked me if there was one opinion from the local government, from schools or from parents who would support what you are proposing, I would disappoint you: I received no such opinion, and I received all these answers. Moreover, the movement of collecting signatures under a petition was spontaneously born on this canvas, so as to keep, as far as possible, what you propose. Many shortcomings in this solution have been pointed out. These most balanced statements showed that the children, who are to be most important in all of this, will lose school in a very systematic way, as Professor Wach said here, starts this first stage of education, and indicate how important it is. It was pointed out how much effort the schools put into preparing the teachers responsible for teaching the amount of money they spent on it. Really, those people who wrote me in my head can't believe that somebody just didn't want to do it without the referendum they asked for, and which one of you was right in front of us right now... that you wanted to do it without asking anybody's opinion. Here many times at my address, you personally spoke about the shoe, the pride of power. Really? It seems to me that you should ask yourselves the trouble, the ministry, too, in the form of reasonable, good questions... to ask all interested environments about this matter, to find out what professionals, scientists think. There you go, this room could give hospitality to such a debate, Mrs. Marshal. Yes, it would be a beautiful and important event in this House. But flattering populist postulates without checking... I don't judge what's good, even on the basis of these polls, but without checking the effects of this decision... This seems really irresponsible to me, which is probably the best word you can stick to this project. And finally, a few words about local governments. When I read this bill... It is said that there will be some money that the local government will be able to use, but it is not known in what formula, it is not known what it will be possible to use it for. Let me be clear: all the local governments that I liked said they wouldn't do without firing. So, since the Minister is leaving and says that there will be no layoffs, I want to ask her on what grounds She's saying it. Did she carry out a survey like I did, only on a national scale? Did she ask the local authorities if they were gonna be there or not? What's the chance to retrain, which requires a year and a half in six months... What is the ability to carry... Ladies and gentlemen, at the Pile I'm from, kindergarten No. 1 can accept if 90% parents decide to leave their six-year-old children in kindergarten, seven new children, instead of the hundreds they're waiting for. Is this responsible?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u118	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Piotr Florek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I came with a card, I scored a few points, because at 2:00 p.m., I found out what we're going to be discussing today. Just in case, I've already prepared these 3 cards for myself tomorrow, they're still empty, but I promise you, by 24.00 today, I'll be following on the Internet, or any of the laws that will be processed tomorrow, and we're talking about the media bill, the police bill and a few other important laws that are currently being voted on in the Sejm... [[Voice from the room: No, it won't...]] So as much as I've had time to prepare, with no opinion, of course, any expertise, using only the knowledge that I've been able to reach in the meantime... I am a little surprised by the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice that you do not follow the example of Mr.John Maria Jackowski, who here said nicely that he went to school at the age of 6. And here's the man he grew up to be. [[Voice from the room: Nice guy.]] Such an eloquent, cool guy. Unfortunately, I went to school at the age of 7, so it was fifty years ago... [[And a nice guy too...]] I'm just a humble engineer and I don't want to compare myself with Mr. Jan Maria Jackowski. But that's an example to you. He's showing us where he's going. You have to go. You have spoken here several times about the fact that it doesn't really matter, because at the moment you will be going to school at the age of seven, but a six-year-old will also be able to go. We'll have to report to the clinic, see if the six-year-old can go too. So far it was the opposite, that at the age of 6, but it could be postponed and could go at the age of 7. So what's this all about? 'Cause anyway... The point is, gentlemen, we're turning this bill upside down. I think that this is only due to the promises of the election campaign, because you said the same thing, that it could be done anyway, and that it doesn't matter much. Although I'm sure those students are gonna be missing. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking at my card, where I wrote: leveling the playing field for rural children. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that six-year-olds are to go to school... This is primarily about equalizing opportunities, mainly in the countryside, in the small schools that are there. I'm about to move on to the question of the liquidation of rural schools, because that's another problem. So this was a great opportunity you're trying to throw away. There's probably gonna be classes together, 'cause if two or three students go to school now, seven-year-olds go to school, then... It is to be expected that there will certainly be combined classes. So it's going to be a very difficult situation in the country. The Minister said this debate was embarrassing. Already a friend I'm not gonna tell you again... Well, it's really embarrassing to say. The Minister also spoke of educational subsidies that local governments use this subsidy for other purposes as well. Ladies and gentlemen, I was a self-government officer, too. All local government officials in Poland, as they heard what the Minister said... They're storming at the moment, because we all know that every government adds to education and, no miracles, will add. There's a Teacher's Card that binds local governments. So how can it be said that local governments use this subsidy for other purposes? Well, ladies and gentlemen, I will no longer comment on this statement. Now, a very important matter is what happens after the change when it comes to the probation officer's powers. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt about the conflict between the government and the parole board. Currently, the resolution on the liquidation of the school Not to mention the liquidation of rural schools, where these pupils are sometimes very few, where they need to be combined, where they need to be transported, etc. It was the responsibility of the local government, i.e. the local government passed a resolution, until the end of February, then a second resolution. It was the government that decided this because he was the one who was paying the financing costs, and it was his responsibility. If he met all the requirements, the voivode did not repeal the resolution and therefore something could be done. And in this situation, when the probation officer decides, for example, to merge, to liquidate schools, ladies and gentlemen... If I give this example It's going to be some small country school where, I don't know, 30 students, and there are schools like that, and if your parole officer says no, this school isn't allowed to go, then the municipality will have to keep this school. You also said that there are fewer students in schools. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, fewer students are in classes, less is in school, but schools need to be maintained, warmed up. So the subsidy that is passed on to these schools, the local government will spend it anyway, if it gets it, because it gets properly on every student. Here is the whole problem that I think will be publicised and difficult to solve in a situation where a probation officer and self-government. There's still a problem on all of this that I mentioned, the teacher's problem. Ladies and gentlemen, there's no way. We have 650,000 teachers, over 5 million students, which is 1 teacher per 14 students. When we compare this with the situation across Europe, in other countries, it turns out that this is a very different relationship, there it is somewhere at level 8, 9, 10, we have 14. If we now impose the fact that we will have 1 year of primary school, which means there will be no 1 year in primary school, then there will be no 1 year in junior high, then there are no miracles, there is no other option, you must clearly tell the teachers that after these changes some of them will be fired from work. There's no question about that. Self-government will do it because they'll have no other choice. They won't endlessly add up because their capabilities are limited. I mean, it's 50%. the budget of municipal authorities goes to education, usually so, and in some municipalities even more. So, ladies and gentlemen, this change doesn't bring anything, it only complicates things. And last but not least, one more point. Ladies and gentlemen, we're also scaring a little bit of kids, because the kids hear it too, they hear what we were talking about, you can tell the class that you can be in first class twice. Ladies and gentlemen, ideas from the moon. I'm curious who invented it. You'd have to give him some kind of reward, because to come up with something like that, you'd have to think really hard. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm going to say. I believe that if this change is introduced, it will not do any good, but more problems and conflicts. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u120	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! So many words have been said about this law, that we almost do not want to talk, but I must respond to at least 2 articles of the Act, because we are talking in general about how we feel about the problem of amending this law, we are not talking about concreteities, and this is our duty. We shouldn't be here just for the discussion. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm paying attention to Art. 9 and Article 9 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 11 Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws contained in print No. 63, which states that, according to the parents' will, the child may remain in the first class without the obligation to assess and move to second class and also the child who attend second class may remain in second class, also by the will of parents. This applies to 2 year olds, those who started school in 2015/2016 and second year children who started school at the same time, but who belong to the year 2008 are from the second half of 2008, i.e. slightly younger than full seven-year-olds. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a catwalk that I don't know what it's supposed to do, unless it's filling a gap in school benches, because if a 6-year-old child so far could have gone to school, but had to have the opinion of a psychologist or didactic psychologist, then I say that a child who is left in first class or second grade should also be subject to an opinion by a psychologist. I don't see a reason why it can't, as if it were a promotion, go to the upper class. A child who has been a year or two in a group of his peers, a child who has been close with these young people, who is already socially developed in this class, at the same time the will of parents is left in the same class. Will it not feel hurt? Wouldn't it feel like a worse kid? We're hurting these kids. Parents may be doing this to protect their beloved child. But do all parents look the same and have the same opinions? what about the time of the start of education? I don't want to say that the same knowledge, because all parents love their children and want what's best for them. But is the model of our education supposed to be that old horses I'm gonna use those words. Will they stay on their parents' pot? How long? If the parent can decide if the child will go to school at the age of six, maybe we can give him free will when he says no, my child will go to school when he's eight, because I think it's still unprepared? The problem, in my opinion, is that for almost 70 years we have been used to the fact that the school's obligation was for seven-year-olds. But the world is moving forward, society is changing, knowledge is growing. The preparation of children to absorb knowledge is enormous. Our grandchildren, I'm not even talking about our children anymore, often from multimedia information, can extract more from electronic information than we can. We learn from them slowly. Why are we taking away their opportunity to start early? Not necessarily professional, professional, but self-education. And with the conviction that it is worth investing in a young generation, not necessarily in children who are 7 years old, but in those who are 6 years old or maybe 5 years old, because this is our future, but in a school that is getting better and better prepared... And the preparation of schools is progressing, local governments are trying. Not everything has been perfect since the first moment, but it's getting better. My grandson goes to a rural school, which is located within a large urban agglomeration. There are 17 students in the classroom, there are fantastic conditions. 'Cause when the government tries and the parents help, it might be okay. Therefore, in the interest of the psychics of young people who are to be enlightened citizens of our homeland in the future, I would like to ask that art. 9 and Article 9 11 have been removed from the bill. And that's the amendment I'm making. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u122	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am performing for the second time, this time completely individually, because before that I have referred to the minority proposals of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. In fact, I have said a lot in the context of the proposal to reject the law and I will try not to repeat it, but rather to refer to what happened during this debate. Finally, I would like to make amendments, which include an amendment on the deletion of the Article. Nine, which is what Senator Rotnicka has been asking for lately. I'd say so. The debate and opinion have been raised here many times. We are accusing, we have accused, it has been accused by colleagues from the Civic Platform that we are actually feeling a lack of opinion, and the debate is very narrow. I mean, not in this House, but in general, as far as experts are concerned, as far as NGOs are concerned, they were limited. I'd say so. The argument that it is not so necessary is that, when implementing the law which this amendment cancels, it changes, there was a general debate on the need and arguments related to school age, with the beginning of fulfilling the school obligation at the age of 6 or 7. But I believe that these main questions do not concern the general debate here. They relate to details, they relate to costs, they relate to relations with local government, they relate to many specific things that we expect from opinions. Let me give you an example. One of the elements discussed here, recently raised in the speeches of many people, including Professor Rotnicka, was this empty class at the level of the first class. Well, in the explanatory memorandum to the law, this justification is quite well written, I would say, you can understand from it what it is about; to this I had no objections These are four categories of children who will attend the first class next year. Of these four categories are only valid three, because after the change in the Seym this yearbook is not actually divided into parts until September and after September, only it is already treated equally as a whole. So there are three categories of first class children left. One category is specific Children born in 2009 who, at the request of their parents in 2015 or 2016, have been deferred from the school's obligation; this is 92.5 thousand pupils. This is the only concrete one, because here we know how many people were allowed to postpone their school duties, on the basis of their opinions, and everything else is vague. One opinion that would be needed is, therefore, how many children in these particular categories can be. The same applies to many other specific issues. It is not that the debate on this subject has already been in the past, and we know everything. If we are based on this proposed amendment, we know very little about how this is going to happen, especially in the area of so-called. the educational chaos that will follow these changes. So the opinions were needed and the debate was needed, perhaps less so at a general, ideological level, which we and Professor Żaryn were conducting here. Other people also took part in it. More discussion on specific topics. Here's another thing. There was a raised issue of the position of parents and the right of parents to choose. This was supported in various ways, including by a referendum request, under which a large number of signatures were collected. The role of parents, in my opinion, has been absoluteized in certain statements, and to this extent... In the end, you don't know what the reference question would be, because the choice is practically like this. In the case of compulsory schooling, whether the age is 6 or 7 years. And these big appeals refer to such a question and to such an issue: when a child should fulfil a school obligation, whether at the age of 8 or 9 or if someone wishes, because then the role of parents is fully, so to speak, personified. But it didn't really occur to anyone, not even to parents themselves, because they're used to it, because of their own experience and years of practice, that school starts at the age of 7, that's when it's a school obligation and that's it. Lowering this to the age of 6 was a process, as I have already said, difficult, quite painful, valuable, and this law completely eliminates it. But this has absolutely nothing to do with the absolute choice by parents of any age of starting school. And I don't think anybody would really think about it. In these statements I would see a nostalgic element: that it used to be better. The truth is that life brings problems. We have recently had a lot of these problems both in Europe and in the country, and with the change of power, and actually this nostalgia manifests itself in this. But, ladies and gentlemen, improving the state of the school, both the results and the Perhaps, above all, the behaviour of children, the attitude of parents towards children and family relationships is not a question of withdrawing different records. This is a much more complex, long process. In the same process, the same current also includes reduced fertility and fewer children starting school. This is generally the occurrence of social selfishness. And it is naive to expect that such legislation could solve this and improve it. Once again, I would like to stress that withdrawing from this change, from reducing the age of school duty, and returning to the age of 7 is a mistake. Of course, you emphasized that this is the choice of parents, that parents can easily send a child to school at the age of 6. I'm sure some parents will. But in my opinion, if there was a good understanding and a good attitude of the government, the government would promote it. Maybe not at the moment when the law itself implements and says that it is fulfilling the electoral promise But he would promote it, and then, in fact, this step, which is definitely negative, would gradually go away, and maybe in a mild way we would go to this age of 6 years. Moreover, it also stressed the weakening of self-government, the strengthening of the role of curators and the weakening of self-government. This occurs in many elements, e.g. in the ideological sphere, such as the appointment by the Minister Which isn't particularly important, but it's a symbol. But mostly through the so-called. a positive opinion on several issues, including the liquidation of schools. There was talk of it, I'm not going to develop it. But I must also tell you that this positive opinion of the curator, used in the vocabulary of the bill, does not please me, that is just another scam. After all, this is the consent of the probation officer, because the required positive opinion means consent, and it should be said explicitly that it is the consent of the probation officer in one or another matter. Because could it be the opposite? It's okay. The opinion can be crooked, and then locally you can do whatever you want. Maybe that's it? Ladies and gentlemen, a matter that is not actually within the scope of today's law or is only a bit of a bother with it, but I'll mention it because it's a little on my conscience, and it's related to education. That is, Senator Spider mentioned that at the summit we had Well, 20 years ago, it wasn't the absolute peak of 720 thousand children starting in the first grade, it's now 360 thousand, so about 50%. Different steps are supposed to prevent this situation from changing... [[It's been a while, Mr. Senator.]] Time, huh? If they change, we'll see. This thread I ignore, it was a side thread, however important, if there is an opportunity, I will mention it. It is also a question of possibly preparing our schools for children of different origin, e.g. for children of refugees. But I'm not going to develop it. The Minister spoke a lot about goodwill. Good will is always advisable, but regulations must be precise, because, as it is rightly said, conflicts between the curator and the local government will occur, for material reasons. Nobody's gonna want that, but it's just gonna happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the amendments I mentioned earlier. If I were to characterize them in two sentences, because I actually exceeded the time, I would say that they largely eliminate the effects of this law, because they delete, among others. articles on the obligation of preschool six-year-olds and school seven-year-olds, which actually means a return to the previous situation. This is, you can say, some prosthetic rejection of the bill, only in a milder form and with less scope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u124	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Napieralski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't understand Law and Justice, I don't understand why he does that. On the one hand, several days ago you announce a very positive change in the Polish school, which introduces programming lessons to the basis of teaching. This shows that you are looking at a world that is changing, and you see that you really need to adapt education to the needs of the market, to the needs of the changing world, you see that the child must be prepared to function in this modern world. And on the other hand, when there's a good change that gives you the opportunity to even up your educational opportunities, you try to stop it and take it back. In my opinion, the change we are talking about here today is very strange and very dangerous. Every discussion about education, education of our children is always very important, because it concerns our future, the future of our country, our homeland. When we invest in education, we invest in children, we actually invest in the development of Poland. And any element that hinders this development, every element that hinders it, causes us not only to harm our children, but also to harm ourselves. The world is actually changing very dynamically. You often fail to keep up with how big companies react, how big minds react in the world. There are also countries that look closely at all these changes and adapt the education system to invest in young people. I was convinced that when there was a law on education, it would not go in such a direction as to increase the age from which there is a school obligation, only in such a way as to invest in a child, invest in a teacher, invest in a school. I myself was skeptical about whether this reform was being properly implemented. Sam, as the father of two daughters, Alicia and Alexandra, I was afraid that a six-year-old in such a class could manage whether the teacher or teacher were well prepared. But since this is all going on because this process has started and has been successful in many countries, I wonder why you want to stop it. What are you really afraid of? What's wrong, what's dangerous is that kids can go to school early? In fact, we cause that no matter what family the child comes from, this obligation is imposed on the parent. Because it's the legislator, which is us, the people who make important decisions in the country, who decide that it's the parents who really have to start investing in their child. Because even the most loving dad or mom won't give you as good an educational basis as a prepared teacher or teacher. It is a well-prepared school, well-prepared classrooms and scientific help will make the child grow really well. Why can't we do it like this? Singapore, a distant country that invested in education, in every student and student, invested in teachers, raised the authority of the teacher, so that the best came into the education system that the best wanted to teach. And look at this: a small city-state, because that's what you can call it, has 2 universities in the top 100. [[How many dollars per capita? What are we talking about? A hundred times more...]] And those of the best of the best are now studying at Western universities, getting academic degrees, getting a lot. Law and Justice often referred to in their discussions, in debates such as the United States. Look at how the age is really falling down there... Look, when really young people go to work. By the age of twenty, twenty, they have been successful. The creators of Facebook, Microsoft... Look at what's really going on. [[The budget of one university...]] Why do we want to take something like this today? Professor, if we want to invest in education today, let's look for money and invest in people, teachers. Let's invest in school, let's make it the best. Because every penny invested in education today, every penny invested in a child. He'll pay us all back. But the sooner we let children benefit from the achievements of modern education, the better it is for these children. Equalizing opportunities, especially for children living in small towns, because in big cities, we're gonna be okay... A good president who can work together, build schools, equip them, look for sponsors... It is also often the case that large companies decide to help the school, unfortunately mostly in large cities. Let us look at, for example, the programme of the encoding masters, which, as it were, has been the forerunner of the amendment that I mentioned by the Government of Law and Justice. The encoding masters are a program that taught children programming, which gave new competences to children in primary school, who began to cope well. When I was in show classes, it turned out that children often do better than teachers, can think logically and work in a group, gain skills that will give them the opportunity to function in a modern world and in competitions that we do not yet know. As a country, we were able to learn from this and the programming lesson will now be mandatory. Why are we here, in this case, going in this direction and otherwise not? Small towns. You mentioned small villages. It is there that a funded school, a school that has good facilities, good teachers and teachers, as well as a lot of money, gives the same basis for functioning in the future as a school in a big city. Why should we limit it? What? I'm asking you again, are you really scared? If we look at demographics, what's going on in the world, we'll see. We know that very well. The educational process will start faster and young people will enter the labour market faster. This is what happens in fast-growing countries. This is what will happen in Europe, and this will happen in the world. When we look at the European countries that have decided to start education more quickly, we will see that their achievements are improving. It's where the school thrives very well. There are really many interesting examples of this, even in terms of obtaining patents and looking for new solutions, because there is a young man being prepared and given the basis. Poland is still in a disgusting faraway place when it comes to preschool education. Very few children attend kindergarten. There is no kindergarten, or parents refuse to send their children to kindergarten because they prefer to have them with them. That's a big problem. And if in recent years it has been slow, laborious and difficult to introduce an earlier school obligation, since it's all in place and functioning, then why should we stop it? Why shouldn't we improve that? Why not look for money? Why not educate another and even better prepared group of teachers? Why not talk to these environments? And you're a little scared. You're going back. I think it's a very big mistake, the more that Once again, with all determination, I'll say This is a terrible mistake in the committee, because we are talking about investment in the future and in our children. This is your serious mistake. You'll see: in a few years, you'll admit to me that you've made a mistake. I appeal to you: change your mind! This really isn't about probation, it's about how the school is financed. The point is not to stop a good trial. Look for solutions, look for funding so that the school is as modern as possible, so that there is additional money in the school to finally build the position of a teacher as a serious authority and to draw the best people from the market to teach as is in many countries. That's what I'm calling for. That's what I'm asking. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u126	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the senator. Terminian.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u127	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The whole argument that's going on here is really a dogmatic dispute about how to raise children. It cannot be resolved in such a way as to reach consensus, because there will always be those who think that six are better, and there will always be those who think that seven are better. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the difference between the old and the new law in this respect is that in the old law the obligation was for six-year-olds, unless there was an appropriate opinion of the psych-pedagogical counsellor and the child could be sent to school at the age of 7... In the new law, this provision has been reversed, and now the obligation will apply to children aged 7 years, unless parents want to send their children early. Then they have to get an opinion from a psycho-pedagogical clinic. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is very different. I'm the father whose daughter was born January 2nd. And now a horse with a row of who's gonna tell me if she should go to school at the age of six or at the age of seven. I believe in the wisdom of my parents. I believe that parents are able to determine whether a child should go to school at the age of 6 or at the age of 7. By moving away from the dogmatic dispute, as I understand it, you state that the school obligation will apply to children aged 7 years, but I would like to leave parents the right to decide freely, arbitraryly, whether children can go to school a year earlier. In view of the above, I would like to delete the provision which is contained in the Law. Point 1 (5) (a) (b) and which makes the Director's consent conditional either on obtaining a positive opinion from the clinic or on taking part in pre-school education in the previous year. As far as preschool education is concerned, it's a record largely dead, because, as we know, 40% children do not benefit from preschool education. So in many cases, especially in smaller rural communities, this could not happen. And a record of the need for a proper opinion... I think it forces parents to go to outside bodies in a situation where they should be able to assess whether a child should go to school sooner or not. My first request, my first proposal, my first amendment is to delete this provision from the bill. Another thing. It's about an article on the financial issue that's being discussed. There's a lot of talk here about finance. Remember, if we increase the age at which children have to go to school, up to 7 years old Let's assume that most parents will benefit from this opportunity. This will mean that in many cases the first classes will shine empty. However, the possibility of combining schools or the possibility of winding up schools depends on the probation officer's consent. And here I see a lack of a certain continuity. The foundation of the school is decided by the local government, which allocates money for it, and the possibility of liquidation... This decision of the local government depends on the opinion expressed by the curator, who is an official of the state administration and not of the local government. Therefore, my request that in the article. 1 paragraph 12... let me look for... It's about art. Point 12, which relates to Article 1. 59 laws. I would urge you to delete the record of the probation officer's positive opinion. Of course, it is necessary to leave the requirement that the curator should comment on this matter, but the final decision on the possibility of merging institutions should be the responsibility of the local authorities, because it is the local authorities that spend funds on it. If it were foreseen that if the curator did not agree to optimization of educational institutions, the state budget would contribute money to local governments for this, I would understand that it is possible to make the decision of the local government dependent on the decision of the state administration. But since the government is to pay for this, it should be limited only in such a way that it needs to consult a curator who, as I understand it, watches over the entire education in a given district, in a given area of activity. But it doesn't necessarily have to be a positive opinion... Therefore, my conclusion is to delete twice the word "positive" and to leave the expression "opinion." That's it. Allow me to present this amendment. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u128	Thank you very much. I take it these are two amendments? [[Yeah, two corrections. It's the only thing that's ugly.]] No, it's not about... [[Terminian, right?]] Yes. [[Good.]] Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Wczyła.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! All day long, I've been trying to figure out whether the costs that will be incurred by local governments after this law has been introduced. Instead of the numbers I hear: "There will be government cooperation with self-government, we have good will, self-governments have subsidies, after all, children will not come to us. So simply: Poles, nothing happened and Poles, nothing will happen. Except it's the government's opinion, and it's the government's. Self-governments didn't ask for opinions. After all, there is even media information that shows that local governments are afraid of implementing this law. In Wrocław, as we have already talked about here and at the committee meeting, it is estimated that 3,000 places will have to be created in kindergartens for children, those who will not go to school, and those new ones for which places in these kindergartens will have to be found. The Act also gives the curator the right to force the local government to run a school that the local government would like to eliminate, but does not say anything about financing the consequences of this imposed decision. In my opinion, the concerns of local governments are justified. The Act will create a mess and will have financial consequences mainly for local governments. So I don't understand why you didn't confront your knowledge with local governments. They're the ones that run most of the schools. They are closest to these schools, so according to the principle of subsidiarity it is above all the local authorities who should comment on the validity of this law. Or maybe you didn't confront this law with the opinion of local governments just because you know very well that this law is going to cost a lot of money and these costs are going to be borne mainly by local governments? Maybe Senator Bogdan Klich was wrong about the empty pool and the fact that you don't know that this pool is empty? Maybe you know? But you also know that local governments are going to jump into this pool, not the government. Or is it different? Maybe everyone's wrong. Maybe you're right, maybe the Minister is right, and the cost of this bill is actually gonna be little, and there's nothing to be afraid of? I therefore request the introduction in the law of a provision obliging the State to cover the costs of implementing this law, possible costs. If there's nothing to be afraid of, there's no risk. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u130	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Gawl.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that today's discussion, the discussion is not about convincing anyone in this Chamber, because it is rather about the principle on which discussions are held in local governments everywhere in Poland: everyone will say their issue and what will be next, and so will be decided in the vote. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when it comes to matters of the functioning of local governments and the responsibilities that the Polish state imposes on local governments, these obligations are increasing. And actually here we should all hit each other in the chest, because for many years these duties have been imposed. There is the position of the Polish County Union, which we read. The farms are concerned. Except that you have to make a distinction, because there are landscapings and Grodzka districts. As far as primary and secondary education is concerned, it is up to which districts? Land districts, of course. There's a division, right? I'm sorry. Land districts have upper secondary schools. So this is also another element of the reform, which leads to the overlap of local authorities' competences in one area. Those who have dealt with local government know what it looks like, not only when it comes to the system of funding schools, but also the maintenance of roads, etc., etc. The statistics were also mentioned here today. Not exactly what the Supreme Audit Office says on its website is consistent with what I've heard here today, that schools are well adapted, prepared to receive six-year-olds. In some areas, yes with regard to the equipment of the halls, but with regard to e.g. The toilet equipment, the toilet adjustment, that's already 40%, unfortunately. objects are not prepared, they are not adapted. Now a comment on the countries of the European Union that have adopted a system whereby six-year-olds go to schools. There are 19 countries like this, you can check it out. But there are several countries that have not adopted such a system. This is not due to some momentum for modernity, but to the tradition that was in the country, e.g. In the UK, the system was based on this, the idea being that a young man should grow up to his productive age as soon as possible. That's what I'm talking about. When I hear such demands that a young man should reach the labour market as soon as possible, it seems to me that we do not understand what the school system looks like in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, after graduating from junior high, a young man chooses upper secondary school. What do you think the statistical data tells you about what type of school is? He's picking? Large part, about 50% In medium-sized district cities, it chooses a type of high school and only 17.0% of the type of vocational school. You know what happens next? It's just that these people are going to the employment offices to get the benefits. Today speaking of whether or not six - if seven-year-olds should go to school, we should be thinking about a whole system that is not currently being disassembled, this system is being disassembled That's what my experience as a teacher shows. For more than 20 years. If we want to talk about the teacher's authority, it's definitely whether it's six. - whether a seven-year-old goes to school, it's not a situation that's supposed to weigh on whether the teacher has authority or not. The Senate is a respectable institution, so most of you remember that once a teacher was a personality. Today it is paper, because it is done everything to theoretically raise the level of teachers through various types of courses, various degrees of promotion, etc., and in fact it does not affect the raising of its authority. There's a regression, and it's really been for many, many years. It would be good to consider why today. When it comes to the dispute that I have heard here today about the vision of Polish education, it should be said that the school should actually teach and raise. This is the main task of the school and that is what we should pay attention to, not look at what is being done in other countries. This is no longer about the European Union. Of course, we can move who's behind the European Union, who's not, who's hurting, but that's not the point. We are talking about the Polish school, and the effect of learning in this school is to be good preparation of a young man for life, but above all learning a critical approach to life. The point is that a young man should have such an intellectual device that he can judge the world himself and choose what is good for him and what isn't. Today's school is schematic. Just see how you prepare young people, young people to complete school, for exams. These are eternal exams, this is an eternal scheme that really does not develop the mind of a young man. Therefore, I think this subject, the fact that it is necessary to change the age in which school starts, is only the beginning of the discussion, but also the beginning of the changes related to the fact that the school should be based primarily on the choice of the parent, on the authority of the teacher and on the serious attitude of the state towards how education works. One more thing, too. Namely, I would like to point out, by the way, that there has not been any emphasis here today on the fact that in recent years But it's not about me picking on the Platform's governments or not, because this process is already long. Village schools are closed, which, as you well know, in such small towns are actually the only cultural centres where there is a library, where there is a teacher, where a young person can have contact with the world of words, with the world of literature. As far as teaching is concerned, it's not enough to give a kid a first-class tablet to say that school is modern. I also remind the senators that once in Polish school they taught calligraphy, which was then laughed at, and this was so that people could focus and make demands for them to overcome all their ailments, they were just supposed to practice and raise their levels. And today it is very often given prosthesis in the form of various kinds of documents, which are intended to replace his skills, e.g. dyslexia, discalculation, dysgraphy or whatever it's gonna be called. This over-educating has led to such a situation that the school has begun to demand less and less in a serious way. And the school has to make a young man's demands. If the school is not conservative in this area, then society will not be modern. And I think we'll agree on that. I think it's a respectable group to discuss such things. Kitchen, school and religion are three things that should not be influenced externally. Yes? We should do this ourselves. And it's all very important to us, it's important to think that way. What else is there to say? I no longer want to talk about fantastic science literature and what Senator Klich said here today about modernity and probably some misunderstood conservativeism, so that if the school were to be schematic and there would be a machine rebellion, then only those who, unfortunately, will be able to go to school would be able to fight with these machines, because they will think differently than the schematics. We need a school that really stimulates young people to think. It should be the essence of the school: the master and the student. And the rest should be taken care of by the state, especially by money, so that local governments can function. Because you know how it all looks like: it's not just a subsidy, it all looks different, and it's in every type of school, because there are conversion scales and money that follow the student. So I think that reform is needed not in such a way as to reform only for the reform itself, but it should be deep in order to rebuild the school to a serious extent so that it serves the young man and consequently Poland, because that is probably what we all want. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u132	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zarin.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thanks to my predecessor, I can definitely shorten my speech because I also want to talk about teaching experience. And it undoubtedly suggests here that today we are discussing on the one hand the context, about this particular record restoring the condition of the former, crowned by some long tradition, Mr. Senator... [[Socialist.]] No, not necessarily a socialist... [[Absolutely.]] ...just psychological, Mr. Senator. [[Socialist.]] And this developmental psychology, concerning children, clearly suggests what you know very well: that there is a cycle of development of the child, and then of young people, which, among other things, has its dynamics and this dynamics at certain times in this young age is very diverse. From a certain age, it can be captured more and more so that growth dynamics in terms of possibilities of perception, knowledge, skills and, as a result, competences can be evened out as far as possible. Of course, this can never be achieved because, fortunately, man is a complex structure, but the fact is obvious when it comes to child development psychology. And here's a hint that there are shore dates in a man's life that need to be very careful not to cross some dangerous Rubicon. And this difference between six and seven years of age is so clear in the development of a child... And here again everyone uses examples from their own family. I have three children, eight grandchildren, which are grandchildren of such age that some go to nursery, others go to kindergarten, and the oldest are in second or third grade primary school. So that we here, like all of you, also have the experience of both this phenomenon called "small" and this phenomenon wider, because we too, like Senator Augustine, are talking to many people, with different people, not just families, and they are telling us some dangers, dangers which in this case resulted from the adoption of the law and the attempt to adapt to today's school law and practice. So once again, this danger is the basis of our thinking today. This is the danger arising from the possibility of crossing the Rubicon in the development of young children, 6-year-olds, 7-year-olds, for whom we make an irreversible gesture, with no idea at all, because we cannot have the full idea of what it is. It's gonna have its effects. Of course, we can experience this through the voices of people who later look at the development of children and see the neglect of the past. Today you can read This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings of Save the little ones. for example, the teacher's opinion with a long-term internship. It says that looking at these children today, it may not be enough to assess the risk of saying that, of course, there are situations such as the development of a child during the middle school period, when it turns out that this child's failure was the result of some mistake that was made when it was just 6 or 7 years old. It can be verified. Of course, these are the things that science is trying to figure out, these studies are also burdened with errors, but the fact is that this breakthrough that you have touched here in a very unique way is a very special way. It is the most important basis for this change that we want to make. It is about the transition, the change in the mandatory system of participation in the school bench of a young 6-year-old child, to the 7-year-old child record, of course taking into account children who are according to parents and psychologists adapted, meet school requirements, the possibility of going to school. And this is a fundamental issue that we have to repeat in our speeches once again, because the discussion is going in fifteen different directions, and this simple fact is not only not repeated, but it is slowly forgotten. Senator Rulewski, I promised I'd answer the senator's question. Namely, it is about those beardy young men who leave school at the age of 19. This is of course a problem, we see a problem in the long term of education. If you go to ministerial sites or look at other printouts related to the programme base I was, of course, particularly interested in the basis of the history program. You will see that in practically every introduction to these grounds will be the voice of the former Deputy Minister, Mr Marciniak, who spoke in such a way on behalf of the Ministry of National Education: if we have such a choice that on one side there is the quality passed on and enforced in the school of knowledge, skills and therefore competence and educational path Even though it's right to talk about parenting separately On the other hand, we put not quality at stake, but the democraticity of the school understood in such a way that everyone has to finish it, we choose democracy so understood. That's what the Minister says. And the effect is that, as an academic teacher and once a long-term school teacher, I can tell you from a clipping experience again, because each of us has only a clipping experience, to say that actually the Polish school since 2008 has largely gone after these basics of the program towards such a misunderstood democracy, with an attempt to destroy the quality of the knowledge passed on. Therefore, it is not the beard or lack of beard that will testify to man's adulthood. I prefer to have a man 19-, 20- and even 21-year-old in my first year of studies, but one I do not have to explain, from which side the book is read, from outside or from inside, and how he should understand the content, while it still turns out that without understanding the Polish word is read. And what I say, to some extent, also affects, but not directly, what we are doing today. Namely, now let's turn this thing around and imagine that we want to keep these six-year-olds in schools at all costs. And in the second, third, fourth year of their development, already at the middle school level, we find that we have actually adopted people who are not adapted to the education system, because the education system was based on presumptions of growth in adulthood and all the other issues that I mentioned here as well. Therefore, we are again actually forced, as if by the power of our own error, to reduce the quality of teaching. What you think is dictated only by ours, in addition to misunderstood conservativeism, on the one hand, is indeed an attempt to save the little ones. This association is probably very close to all of us in law and justice. On the other hand, we are also pragmatists who believe that the development of Polish education will be adversely affected if we do not stop the process that was started at least in 2008, if not earlier, because we can also talk about 2005, we can also talk about AWS, please... This is what my previous speaker was talking about, looking at education from the perspective of 20 years: somewhere mistakes have been made, and such a clear build-up of experience It allows us today to understand more of these facts. And as we understand it, we're trying to counter it. The last point is about upbringing. The state here is trying to escape that word, and there is no doubt... In fact, only Professor Wind spoke about this, this emotional factor. You know very well, because they have children, they have grandchildren, that emotions in children of this age cause to a large extent that we are able, as adults, to direct them very strongly. If we're either unprepared or even cynical In a very dramatic way. Of course I don't want to, God forbid, claim that the Polish school consists of cynics. Of course, it's not. But if it goes on like today... Today, the teacher is not only a man who is largely devoid of authority, but who is independent of him, but who is still obliged to perform activities that border on the subject of bureaucracy and not on the educational process. And such an introduction of a law on the age of a child... a school under the dictation of teachers, and teachers under the dictation of a bureaucratic process, on top of a ideological one. In fact, all of this will affect the child's educational process irreparably. And if you want to deny your parents the right to raise in a conservative system, in a system of values associated with Polish tradition, at least say it loudly and clearly. But you don't want that. And if you don't want to, give your parents the decisions about children aged six. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u134	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Szymanski. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Senator Rulewski on a formal matter? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal. Two rewrites...]] Get in the mike, please. I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u135	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Professor Senator Żaryn promised to address my question in his statement. He did mention my name in that statement, but he did not answer the question I asked him. It was a question of what you based your argument on, that 7 years was some kind of golden number, a golden age to start school at school, given that the vast majority of Europeans have adopted the limit of 6 years here. As for the doubt you raised here, the level alignment or the different starting points, I would remind you that there is a zero or even a kindergarten. I state, Mr. Marshal, that the Professor has left my doubts ill-advised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u136	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law was not addressed to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Perhaps the marshal who led her to three other committees did not see that there are very significant elements of family policy that are worth discussing, and that it would be good to get an opinion from this committee as well. I, of course, do not request that the law be addressed to this committee at the moment, but I would very much like to point out that the solutions we are adopting, from the point of view of social and family policy, are essential, very important. I think it's an obvious statement, as well as the fact that family policy is about dealing with the voice of parents. If we do not hear the voice of parents in important matters of parenting and education, then, Senator, we neglect some area concerning family policy. And I think we all want to have a family policy regardless of the governments that are changing. This is the first element. The second element. If we are talking about family policy, it is worth signaling the importance of cooperation on the school line in this area, even if it is one-handedly and even with one slogan. ♪ Family ♪ ♪ Family ♪ ♪ It's a municipality. This cooperation will be of great importance for the education, upbringing and future of our children. And such good cooperation, including with regard to parents' advice, should take place. I hope that someday we will find time to talk about these things, because they are very important things, and it is not that everything is being implemented perfectly here at the moment. That's the first point. The second point concerns what has been phrased as such and so formalized... It's about the age of school education. This is in a sense justified by the fact that if this age was defined as 6 years or 7 years, then indeed this kind of message could have gone into the world and formed a belief, including ours, that such a situation is taking place. However, I think that in particular we, as Senate, should fight this scheme very clearly, in order to show what the problem is, what the education of Polish children looks like and what this law says. Well, this law says that children will start education at the age of 7, but let me remind you that there is a very clear provision here that a child at the age of 6 must have an annual preschool preparation or preparation in another form of preschool education. What does that mean? This means that children de facto start their education at the age of 6. We are arguing very strongly here, pointing out from different angles that it is too soon or too late, but we must accept, or at least notice, this solution. And somehow refer to it, which says that children start their education outside the house understood as an obligation at the age of 6. It's just a matter of form, whether it's in kindergarten, whether it's in a school building, whether it's a school or something. But education starts at the age of 6. That's one thing. Secondly, this law actually allows us to retain the right to choose. I mean, it's not like kids can absolutely go to school only at the age of 7. This may be earlier under two conditions. This is the case when a child before, at the age of 5, participated in preschool education, then at the age of 6 he can take up school education, it is only a question of the parents' decision and the question of enrolling in the right school. This can also be the case if this pre-school education did not have, but then it follows the advice of an appropriate clinic. The article clearly states that the Director accepts a child if he has received preschool education or has an appropriate opinion issued by a psychological and pedagogical clinic. Therefore, if we want to be in the truth, we need to make it very clear that school education and child care start in Poland when the child is 6 years old. This is also important in the context of these statements, which emphasize that in the case of those environments that are poorly capable of raising their children, marginalized in material terms, caring, for these children... I've heard a lot of voices like that. The fact that these children have been cared for since they were six is extremely important. These provisions show that this will be the case and that care will be provided for these children, upbringing and education. After all, in kindergartens we have very important elements of education, and Polish preschool care has an exceptionally high standard. There are a number of scientific works, Polish and foreign, which emphasize that preschool care in Poland is at a very good level. Therefore, while appreciating the work and work of thousands of kindergarten workers, and what programs have been developed, and how kindergartens work, we must recognise that there are these two or three elements there, and that is very well tense. So there's care, there's upbringing and there's education. And as for the environments we're talking about, they're more difficult, here the fact that a child goes to kindergarten is extremely good, because he has good care there, good education. Neither in this Chamber nor in the Seym nor in any scientific study questioned this. Then I will move on to the last issue that has been raised in this Chamber. She's a little emotional. It's about the possibility of leaving the child for the second year in the same class. I will put myself in the role of defender of such a possibility, an opportunity that should not be abused, but which should be available. Very often it is said that it will be harm to the child, because the child will leave school because it will not go as fast as it could go according to age. However, I know scientific studies, as well as I have my experience, because I worked at the beginning as a school teacher. And I've encountered such situations that children who, for example, due to illness or some underdevelopment or other difficulties... It was known that they could not cope in the following classes, that these difficulties would accumulate from year to year. And then, at the request of the parents and the opinion of the school board, it was possible to leave such a child for the second year. At the same time, I remember the huge pressure from the voivodship offices at the time to absolutely not do something like this, because such cases were very negative for the statistics of the school. And I do not hesitate to say that such pressures, such a lack of understanding of individual problems, even as a result of long-term illness, are to the detriment of the child and are detrimental to his well-being. If we're mechanically saying that a child should go from year to year to next class... Well, there are individual situations, so different that we need to lean over them and maintain this possibility. Of course, she's in the Education Act and she doesn't need to be overly criticized. In situations which are justified, this possibility should be used. It is always possible to consult with a school teacher or at the end of a pedagogical council or an educational and professional counselor. But let us not criticize this possibility. Because then there will be a fear from the parents of using this solution, because we supposedly stigmatize the child in this way, etc. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u138	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Warzocha.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a senator for the first time. It's my first, but I hope it's not my last term. This is the seventh time I have listened to debates in this Chamber and I come to the conclusion that the discussions between our clubs are mainly focused on bringing about some unnecessary polarisation of different environments and governments. Of course, this is because of the senators of the Civic Platform. We have already had an attempt here in the debate about the Constitutional Court to generate such a... attempt to polarize two environments. Lawyers, justice, and others were against the government. Today, on the other hand, That's my observation. The situation is that it is trying to generate a completely unnecessary and harmful, and at the same time a two-edged conflict between the widely understood educational and school environment and the government, as well as a widely understood local government environment. This is the wrong way. I'm sure she won't do any good. Unfortunately, it can only deepen internal crises. I'm sure she won't be used to solve specific problems. She spoke about this today at the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, Minister Teresa Wargock, who called on the members of our committee to join us on the problem that brought us here today, because both local governments and the government are working together in the educational policy of the state. And not one side or the other can ever forget it. But I will return to the conflict fields I mentioned at the very beginning. And maybe I'll start with what's mostly about school or the school environment. This collection should certainly include both teachers and parents and children who, after all, in a moment... we will not know how they will be graduates of schools and will also judge both us and the whole system in terms of concrete results. Often, your statements, especially those of the Senators of the Civic Platform, cited the famous report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2014, in which, in your opinion, the preparation of the Polish school system for the adoption of six-year-olds was positively summarised. This was also mentioned by my clubmate, Senator Gaweł, who pointed out something very important, namely that this report, as journalists say, this post-control information is not optimistic at all for the Polish educational or educational system. On the contrary. When you read into the details of this report, you can see that this picture looks completely different. It may be worth starting by the fact that the evaluation in this report concerned in particular the provision by schools of housing conditions with equipment and organisational conditions, including safety and hygiene, for the education of 6-year-olds, as well as suitable teachers for the education of 6-year-olds. Although the overall assessment granted was positive, some irregularities have been identified. Why has this scope of activity been examined at all? Because a similar audit was carried out in 2009. Its thematic scope was slightly different, but the same... The results of this audit resulted in the catastrophic situation of Polish schools, which, I will remind you, were not prepared to accept this obligation 6 years ago. Of course, with an effort, which should be emphasised, above all by local authorities, this situation has been greatly improved. Many irregularities have been corrected, but not all of them. The checks were carried out in only 88 public schools. This was an attempt by means of targeted selection. The idea was to see what is the reality on a macro scale, on a country-wide scale. However, on the basis of this attempt it is possible to express such an opinion that Polish schools in 2014. At the time, this was the test carried out. They're prepared to accept six-year-olds... Well, I certainly wouldn't sign off on that. The Supreme Audit Chamber pointed out, as Senator Gaweł said, also that the results of the primary school checks indicate the need for school heads to: school heads to adapt to the requirements of ergonomics of furniture and equipment used by the youngest students in the school cafeteria and sanitary facilities, to the standards set out in the early school curriculum skilling facilities for the education of the youngest pupils, as well as for the special needs of the youngest children student plans in a situation of change in school. Of course, in most Polish educational institutions, i.e. primary schools, we are dealing with this situation. This is particularly true for large cities where schools are full of pupils and where this multi-change is necessary. When you read the results of this check, even selectively, you can see how the situation is taking place in different regions of our country, including cities of different sizes. And here, unfortunately, the statistics, even the ones based on these studies, are lying to all these statements and to those crocodile tears that you are crying over poor small rural schools, local communities. And it was raining here by the senators of the Civic Platform, among others. from Senator Napieralski's mouth, such a summary that, of course, schools in big cities will manage. Well, according to this statistics, not necessarily. Take, for example, I'm gonna start with the least drastic. The Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship and the percentage of the lack of sufficient classrooms to provide each branch with its own classroom. This was divided by the type of commune... And as far as the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region is concerned, cities on the rights of the county... It turns out that 27.6% cities on the rights of the county in this voivodship do not have such rooms. For other cities this is 34.9% , and in the case of rural schools Only 8%. Let's take Lubelskie Voivodship A different, quite extreme example. Here the situation is much worse, because in the case of cities on the rights of the county, this rate is almost 40%, and precisely 38.2%. In the case of smaller cities, 29.4%, as I understand it. , and in the case of rural municipalities 6.2%. Mazowieckie Voivodeship, close to the heart of each of us. 29.7% in the case of cities on the rights of the county, 36% in other cities, 9,5% in small municipalities. What does that say? It is about the fact that these small municipalities very often take this obligation of equipment, the provision of schools, which is very closely related to the level of education and the whole educational process of children from these municipalities, very seriously and solidly, just doing a great job of doing it. [[Voice from the hall: What does the Pomeranian look like?]] Mr. Senator, I am referring to this reading, but since you are asking, I will say that it is not encouraging, unfortunately, with some great optimism, although against the background of other voivodships the situation is perhaps not so tragic: cities on the rights of the county 25.9% , if I can see correctly, 37.6% Other cities, 13.2% The municipalities of rural areas. Well, I'm not gonna give other extreme examples here anymore, because it's not the time and not the place. I would also like to learn from this report or from this post-control information from NIK: in the 2013/2014 school year, because this was the study, this year the survey was carried out, these checks, every third of the 6 000 881 of the respondents, did not have an adequate number of classrooms to teach for one change to all branches of classes III. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is just an introduction to much more, you can say, exciting reading. I am referring here to the annexes which are always in such information published by the Supreme Audit Chamber, namely the audit statements. It is there, as you read well, when you have time, that you will be able to read the frozen blood in your veins stories just from the school toilets, or from other shrines, that there is all the knowledge on this subject, and the brave translations of the directors of these schools who must confess before the Supreme Chamber of Control from their actions in these areas. Ladies and gentlemen, the marshal is already rushing me. I just want to say one more thing. This, God forbid, is not a turning of the Vistula with a stick or an attempt to return to the times rightly past or to the period of the King of the Age. That's not the point. We really want to give our parents a choice. Today this obligation for six-year-olds is imposed, today the bill requires us all to do so, and we want to give the choice to parents, all the more so that a million signatures, unfortunately ground by the Seym of the previous term, bear witness to something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator, I'm not rushing, I'm just paying everyone's attention when it's 10 minutes. Please take the floor of Senator Silence... [[About the formal...]] Yes? Excuse me? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u141	I'm asking you to recalculate the quorum, because we're discussing a little bit about music.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u142	Mr. Senator, there's no quorum required at this stage, so... of course we can do that, but that doesn't change the fact that we're going to continue. [[Nevertheless, I maintain my formal application, if possible.]] Are you filing a formal request for the quorum to be converted? [[Yes.]] [[Voice from the room: For eight years we discussed and it was good...]] [[Voice from the room: But you didn't report...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: But you say we should do it, so I'm telling you what we should do...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Quorum is needed for decision-making, not during discussion.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Quorum is needed when opening and voting.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Mr. Senator, do you maintain your request for the quorum to be converted? [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] [[Voice from the room: You have to vote.]] [[Yes, Mr. Marshal.]] Is there an objection? [[There it is.]] [[Whose?]] [[Voice from the room: Jasia.]] [[Jasia, explain why. You have to explain why.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Who's in favor of... [[Voice from the Chamber: If there is no quorum, how can we vote?]] Who's in favor of the motion... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But silence, please. Who's in favour of Senator Grodzki's motion? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 41 senators voted... [[Pardon, but I didn't vote because I was at the platform.]] Excuse me... [[Voice from the Chamber: It's a resummation of the vote.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: There must be no quorum. Who says it has to be?]] 42 senators voted, 9 were in favour, 32 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u143	I have a formal motion. I would ask that we vote on how many senators actually are in the Chamber and how many have not voted, did not take part in the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I find that there are over 50 senators in the room. We all see it. Secondly, no quorum is required at this stage, so we continue. I ask the senator to speak in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u145	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! In fact, this dispute boils down to one fundamental thing, namely how many countries are to be in the family's life and when it has the right to interfere. The school obligation exists in all countries and there are different limits to starting this obligation, but it is a matter of individual laws to define this age limit. We have to start with some of the principles of art. 46th Constitution, which is a repetition of the article. 1 Additional Protocol No 1 to the 1950 European Convention on Human Rights [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please!]] This article sets out the principle of parents' right to raise children according to their beliefs. Coming from this fundamental element, it must be assumed that the law that we are examining today is satisfying it, for it assumes that no one else Not the State Only parents will decide when the child is to start school: whether at the age of 6 or at the age of 7. At the same time, it is possible to start school at the age of 6, if that is the decision of the parents. This, in my opinion, is the right solution, which is part of the assumption that I have made, resulting from our constitution as from the European Convention on Human Rights, because it gives parents the right to choose. The principle is that a child starts school at the age of 7, while parents have the right to decide that a child will start school at the age of 6. Therefore, I think that the whole war that we are fighting here is pointless, because it is in fact an opportunity to start learning at the age of 6, only that it is left to the parents' decisions, which, of course, are supported by experts' opinions. This decision should be supported by the opinion of the competent institution I mean, the opinion of psychologists. Or preceded by a child attending a kindergarten. This is a very sensible and respectful solution for parents' rights, which are fundamental here. After all, even in the case-law of the Strasbourg Court, for example in Olsson or Eriksson's judgment against Sweden, there is such a beautiful thought... I would remind you that this is a country which is in some sense even overprotective towards families in terms of financial benefits, but unfortunately also overprotective in terms of interference, which has often been stigmatized by the Strasbourg Court. Sweden has lost cases many times because the Swedish State has overly interfered with the rights of parents. The Court beautifully said that staying parents with children is a fundamental right of the family, which must be respected at every stage of the child's life. Ladies and gentlemen, we are responding to this assumption, which is a solution of all means worth supporting and reasonable. However, I am not free from certain comments, I have actually one critical remark, connected only with the precision of certain regulations. Therefore, I will allow myself to submit a proposal that I am giving your consideration to. Namely, there is a certain inconsistency between the powers of school leaders to question the position of the education and upbringing curator. Here we have a regulation which provides for the possibility of complaining about the probation officer's decision in a situation where he gives a negative opinion on the school's liquidation. If the institution being the lead authority reports that it wants to liquidate the school, the curator is to give a positive opinion so that such liquidation can take place. Ladies and gentlemen, since we provide for the possibility of lodging an appeal, i.e. a complaint against this provision, I believe that in the opposite situation, i.e. the setting up of a school, if any institution wants to create a school, and here also this opinion is required, such a regulation should be included, that Primo, such an opinion is issued in the form of a provision, and secundo, the negative opinion is entitled to a complaint. I believe that there should be a consequence here, it should be preserved both at the stage of school formation and at the stage of school graduation. Therefore, I allow myself to make this small amendment, which is actually almost technical, in order to maintain the coherence of the legal system. There you go, there she is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u146	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have been discussing and finding out for quite some time, in fact convinced, because I think that further speeches will no longer affect our decisions. I think that decisions are mature because we have been discussing this in this House for a long time. We have discussed many times in our previous term of office, we have conducted ourselves, and now we are in a different situation and in another version we find out. Then we gave examples. There were questions here about whether someone did the research, proved it. After all, the best way to test is to test your own life, which you have survived because you can make assessments based on many years of experience. Many of my previous speakers said he had children, grandchildren. I'll mention one sentence, too. It just happened that my daughter went to school when she was seven and my son went to school when she was six. And to be honest, at school and college, it was easier for a daughter than a son. I've always had to help him, always pull him out, to that, I must say, he was emotionally immature. It was clear, you had to look after him all the time, if it wasn't for the parents, if it wasn't for the others, he wouldn't have managed, he probably wouldn't have finished his studies, he'd have had to stay at a different level of education. Parents had time and sacrificed it, and when parents did not have time, it was clear that these emotionally immature children often fail, and then they continue to do so for years. The basic question is this. Do we want to force ourselves to make babies that are very intelligent and emotionally immature... to push them so hard... Or maybe they won't match the level they would have achieved if they had gone to school at the age of 7? They'd grow, they'd manage, and you wouldn't have to worry. Unless somebody cares about a part of society not being well-educated. ♪ Sometimes I feel that way ♪ So that we can have a lower level of education for part of society. Because the part that I'm going to say is highly intellectually, which is mature, has always done well and can do well. We gave examples here, even personal ones, including Senator Jackowski. A lot of people were doing just fine. But we all care about that. Those who do well, let them do well. Maybe even five-year-olds can handle it. After all, such children are also capable, after all, no one wants to do anything forcefully. Let's just give our parents a chance. Now that we're talking so much about the pro-family policy agenda, about all these elements of it, why do we want to interfere with it so badly and act against our parents? We are talking about the problems in small cities, that there are problems in the Polish countryside. We note that children in the countryside have actually always had difficulties, and today it is better. Examples of the preparation of rural schools were given here. This was just quoted by Senator Warzocha, who pointed out that rural communities are actually coping with these preparations. But there's another problem we're not talking about. What happens to the Polish countryside? Why do so many schools have to be eliminated in the Polish countryside? This is a very complex problem. We've discussed this a number of times. In my Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, we are talking about rural development and agricultural problems, about what the village used to look like, what it looks like now and what it will look like. As you look at other countries that have already been transformed in the countryside, the big change that is taking place, the so-called agrarianism, it is clear that people in the country will be less and less. But balance... It all looks weird. Because when we look at the Polish village, we see that our children go to work after bread. It's gotta be said. There is no work in Poland and therefore there are no children here. They leave the Polish village. We would like to say: just like our ancestors in the 19th century and in the early 20th century. At the time, people were going after bread. Today they also leave and leave the Polish village. The village's gonna settle down. And in the Polish village there is a problem with schools at the moment. They are generally closed, not even by the bad will of local governments. I want to stress this: not out of the will of local governments. There are two, three children born in the village I know of, and there's no way to make them one class. There's not even a chance of creating a three year class. This is a very complex problem of the Polish village. I therefore believe that in a situation where we have the opportunity to give parents the right to decide "Whether it's in the country or it's in the city" So they can make decisions... I think that the idea that we have today is that we are reversing the situation and we are opening ourselves to expectations in this House many times. I have said this in this House. Many millions of people who have spoken and spoken about this matter and want us to restore this right to them. Therefore, I encourage us to make this decision consciously, so that we give the parents of children who always make the best decisions for them, the ones that will serve them. Let me give you an example of my grandson. My granddaughter went to school when she was 7. My grandson turned six last year. My daughter says this: he can't sit there, I can't deal with him, but intellectually he's very capable, he's dealing with everything, computer No problem, he's handling everything, but he can't sit down. And my daughter says, "I'm gonna go see a psychologist just to check it out." She comes in and says that she heard: You know, you're the first one in which I can say without stretching, I emphasize, without stretching, that the child is emotionally immature. But they're pushing us not to give the kids permission. They're pushing us. So the question is, is power supposed to act like this, press on psychologists so that they don't give consent? So they can say that children are emotionally immature? And the question is, what is this data? What difference does it make, a continuance? Well, there's a difference. 'Cause if I'm gonna postpone... If the child is incapable because the simplest thing to say is... You want me to admit that I have an unfit child? It's humiliating for me to go and ask if my baby is incapable or emotionally... But if I can make a decision to say that, in the right direction, then I don't have to have a baby... I'll take them... when I want to send a six-year-old to school because he's brilliantly capable. Yet such a parent will be happy, thinking: I have a capable child, emotionally mature. So let's give it a chance to compare, the other way around... Not humiliate the parent so that he is ashamed to go and ask whether the child is mature or immature, whether he is capable or not capable. This is, in my opinion, a very big difference. If you ask the question, what difference does it make if it's a continuance or... For me, it's a fundamental difference. And I think for a lot of parents, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u148	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Czerwinski. [[Formal conclusion.]] [[Mr. Marshal...]] [[What did they come up with now?]] Senator Rulewski, please. [[I'd like to make a formal request.]] I'm gonna need you to stay where you are.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u149	I would like to make a formal request under Article. 48 (1) (a) Point 2, ordering a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u150	Is that a conclusion... [[Formal.]] ...the club? [[Yes.]] I gave the floor to Senator Czerwinski. After that, I'll order a recess. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer to some of the speeches that have been presented to us here, but first of all I would like to sort things out a little bit. Well, the first question is... I'd call it procedural, methodological. The question is this: what should we be guided by when determining the age of the child who is to start fulfilling the school obligation? The State of the Civic Platform claims that mostly what is happening in Europe. In turn we claim that above all our history, our identity, our circumstances. The question is what's more important. Well, that, of course, is a matter of judgment. Our view is as I have put it, and yours is summarized in one question that I have heard here from one of your senators, namely: are we worse? The idea is: is Poland worse than Europe? The question is quite significant, because always in every question there is some thesis, some portion of information. Is it that you are subconsciously saying that we are worse than the rest of Europe and that we must chase Europe, we must adapt to it? I don't think so. I believe that we have our identity, and we do not need to adapt forcefully to the rest of Europe. Of course, we can draw positive patterns, but when we consider it appropriate, it is useful. Second procedural, methodological remark. Professor Żaryn talked about this here, about issues related to the child's psychophysical development. The question is, is a 6-year-old child, or is he 7-year-old, ready for school duty, or has he grown up intellectually and emotionally? Well, we say that it mostly concerns a 7-year-old child. Unfortunately, six-year-olds have children. Mostly for emotional, non-intellectual reasons . Problems with concentration of attention. And that's what the tests show. That doesn't change, but it doesn't change. I haven't heard of the fact that over time, I don't know, the last few centuries For example, children began to speak in the second month of their life or to walk after the end of the third month of life. Some of the things about physiology are just unchangeable. Well, just like that, with the development. He's psychophysical. A third methodological note. Question is, who gave us the 6-year-olds' school responsibility? It is a kind of political formation that has been active on the political stage for quite some time and which, as if it had its origins in the AWS. I remember that reform of AWS, ladies and gentlemen, which is the introduction of junior high schools. I also remember your last programme reform. Because I'm a teacher who teaches science and physics in high school. It's been 30 years now. And I know what and who I taught before your reforms, how children were prepared at the time, and I know what and who I teach after your reforms. Since you guys have been doing this before, I don't know for sure that every next one you do in the world, you're gonna do better than that. On the contrary, you will do it the same way as the previous ones, which is wrong, just wrong. And now the matter of nature, I would call it a matter of substance. This law calls it innocent, but on this occasion there are some fundamental issues related, I would say, to the citizen's relationship with the state. The first point is the subjectivity of the citizen. I'm gonna score it first because I think it's the most important thing. Well, according to you, I'm basically talking to the Senators of the Platform. The citizen is a cog in a machine. You impose a citizen, a parent's obligation to bring a 6-year-old to school, and if the parent wants to get away with it, he has to do some administrative work: go to a psychological clinic, test the child, which is, in a sense, stigmatizing him negatively. What do we assume? We think it's a citizen, a parent, who has the right to decide about his child, because he knows all this best. And of course the default age is the age of 7 years to start school duty, but a parent without any major sharpening can reduce this age, if he wants to, to 6 years. Maybe if he had a special child, he'd raise that age to eight or nine years. So this is the first question: what is the state's attitude towards the citizen, what is the citizen's position in the state? The second substantive issue contained in this law is the model of education and training. We say that parenthood and education are primarily the responsibility of parents or, in short, family. Because it doesn't have to be just parents. It could be siblings, it could be grandparents, which is basically family. She's the one with the monopoly on upbringing. And the school, other institutions, the Church, etc., have auxiliary functions, and of course the school has them to the greatest extent, because the child stays there relatively long. And this is our model of education, this is our model of education. Remember, too, that you in your reform You didn't really add 1 year to your education cycle. You just pushed your education cycle down one year, because 12 years before the reform, it is after the reform. And we're just going back to what was checked out, what was working out. [[In the People's Republic of Poland.]] And it's important, too. The results of your work, ladies and gentlemen, can also be assessed. This is the young people who are coming out of high school right now and they need to educate. I say: they must, because I sympathize with them. Technical universities, young people with shortcomings in the field of science. What would these young people look like if we kept the school duty for six-year-olds, even fear to think. You know why? 'Cause you guys are the school responsibilities that killed six-year-olds in these kids to study. This is a very important issue. You killed in them the curiosity of the world and the desire to learn. You put them in modes that are bad for a six-year-old. He just feels bad about them. Perhaps the same content transmitted in kindergarten would be better absorbed, but in school, in rigid benches, within 45 minutes of lessons, they will not be as absorbed. And the last point, of substance: the role of the state. This is reflected in the provisions concerning the tasks of the education curator, his competence. Ladies and gentlemen, so far the Civic Platform and coalitionists have withdrawn from the role of state as regulator in certain areas as an active participant in social life in certain areas. As far as health care is concerned, there has been a shady privatisation of health services. As far as education is concerned, there has also been such subcutaneous, veiled privatisation by actually forcing local governments to give up schooling and pass on these schools to various kinds of associations. We don't think that's right. The State should not withdraw from its roles, among others. as regards educational tasks, health care and, of course, many other areas. You shouldn't abdicate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u152	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Dowhan. Senator Rulewski has withdrawn his request for a recess. Thank you very much, Senator. [[In order to maintain the continuity of the discussion.]] Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Dowhan for the second time, five minutes. [[You're sitting on this side, you can convert.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u153	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I was already ready for my break and I was packing to get some rest. Hopefully, we'll be done in eight hours today, and we'll be able to get ready for the next points. I have spoken for the second time because I am listening to this discussion and in fact no arguments really reach me. Once again, I would like to tell you about this matter, based on a living example, which is my parent, who sent a child to school at the age of 6. I've asked him repeatedly, I've talked to him, I've asked his peers, and I know they absolutely don't want to go back to kindergarten, they don't want to go back to what they came from. He likes school today. That is also the opinion of many of my friends, my parents, with whom my son... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe I'll wait... Thank you. I couldn't concentrate. I like quiet. ...children my son goes to school with. This reminds me more of a typical political discussion, because today, when someone wants to send their son or daughter to school from the age of seven, it meets the conditions of a psychological opinion. It is not forbidden to send a son or a daughter to school when they are 7 years old to do so. Today you're just trying to show that once again you're correcting something, you're changing something, the discussion has been going on since 2:00 p.m., and nobody's really asked so far, they haven't done a survey. At least I haven't heard of it. Somewhere in schools, with parents or even with children themselves, how they perceive the school, how they perceive the new environment, how they feel about it, what teachers say about it. I just hear that schools aren't prepared, which is total bullshit, that young people are tired of being retarded, that we're a different nation, even though we're really the same nation as Germany, Italians, Austrians, French people who've had this duty for many years now, and somehow these voices of criticism don't fall apart like us. Once again, I ask you to discuss the matter in substance and not waste time on laws that really do not change anything except that they will bring about chaos again in schools. Because today, teachers don't know if they're gonna work, local governments don't know how it's gonna be financed. Because no one has determined how much money it takes, no one has determined whether those teachers who have a job at the moment will continue to work. Because no one said what would happen when the parents had a choice, and they would go to school, for example. Only two willing to send children to her at the age of six, and the rest will want to send them at the age of seven, whether a new class will be created, whether the classes will be combined, or parents will be forced to come to school but from the age of seven. So these are really side things for me. This bill is good, it's accepted. The fact is that one million signatures, but that million is on the one hand, and on the other hand there may be a few million, because nobody asked the people on the other side and didn't collect their signatures. So perhaps it is worth considering. Ruining everything that the Platform has created today seems to me to be a total absurdity and doing nothing but politically, not rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u154	Thank you very much. Please take the floor... [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u155	On the basis of the article. 48 (1) (a) I'm filing for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u156	The club bosses just discussed it... [[And they pulled it off.]] [[Yeah, but...]] ...and withdrew that request. [[Mr. Senator...]] [[There's a recurrence.]] [[Mr President, I repeat this proposal.]] [[Mr. Marshal!]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u157	I'd like to object. We can go on, I don't see the need for a break. Thank you very much. [[The break will be...]] [[Mr. Marshal, may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u158	Mr. Marshal... Please, if you'd like to speak...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u159	I would like to point out, Mr. Marshal, that some senators have already spoken twice, even though the heroics of the second speech was very close to the heroics of the first speech... [[It's a substantive discussion, not a political discussion.]] ...and the other senators are waiting in line to speak at all. I don't know why this should be stopped now. There's a string of thought, a string that should be preserved. It is the eloquence of the gentlemen who themselves are tired of it now, because it takes so long. [[But we're not the only ones taking the floor.]] [[This is a formal request and I ask that this request be voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.]] [[We're voting!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We're going on, the country's paying for something.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u160	I'm gonna take two minutes, and I'm gonna call a vote. [[How much?]] 2 minutes break and vote on the formal motion. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 01 to 20 minutes 03]] Please take your seats. We are voting on a formal motion from Marshal Borusewicz to order a half-hour break. Since opposition has been raised, we are voting. Who's in favour of Marshal Borusewicz's request? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 52 senators took part in the vote, 6 were in favour of the Marshal's request, 44 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 5]] We're adjourned. [[With the 10 present Senators from the Platform.]] [[Room voice: 11 senators.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u161	I have a question for the marshal. It's 8:00. Do we have a plan for today? How much time will we spend in this House? [[Probably till morning.]] But I'm asking your marshal, Senator Rooster. If I ask you a question, you'll answer it. [[Mr. Senator, this isn't...]] Do we have a plan how much time do we spend in this House? What time are we going to proceed? I'm asking you, on a plus-negative basis, to say, because it's gonna be eight hours in a minute, and that's what I'm gonna have to say... I'm not letting him think we're gonna sit like we did last time until 4:00 a.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u162	Mr. Senator, first of all, we're in the middle of a discussion right now. Your motion was not a formal conclusion. Secondly, on the question of how many more of you will come forward and how long you will be speaking, I will answer: I do not know, it is up to you. You've spoken twice. Everyone has the right. Each of the 100 senators can speak twice once every 10 minutes and twice every 5 minutes. So the duration of the discussion is unpredictable and depends on you. That's all I've got to say as the chairwoman. Who's next in the discussion? Please take the floor of Senator Obremski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once, when I was looking for answers to what school was for, I answered myself that it was for the wise adultity of the students. So the effect we're measuring is very distant in time. And here some senators referred to their experience that they started out as six-year-olds, seven-year-olds... although I wouldn't measure school success... I wouldn't refer to the Senate, because I hope that many other factors have decided this, not the choice... not when they went to school. The key is not whether school education starts in 6 or 7 years of age. The key is when education... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. Senator, please be quiet.]] [[The senator's serving a cup so I can...]] [[Mr. Senator, please be quiet.]] [[I'm not saying anything. I didn't even sign up.]] [[It's for me...]] [[Senator Rooster, please be quiet. You're welcome, Senator.]] The key is when a certain intellectual stimulation begins, when the socialization of the student, the child, begins. Probably since the age of four, such processes have been necessary. For me it is a bit so that the discussion in 2008 and 2009 was a little artificial in this dimension, because the same effect could be achieved if the school's coercion was implemented in kindergartens. Then this threshold of parents' distrust of their obligation to go to school would be smaller. It is so that, unlike imposing a tax system, in contrast to being drafted into the army, the question of whether a 6-year-old or 7-year-old child goes to school should not be left to an arbitrary, very strong decision of the state. This debate is really about how many countries, how many parents' rights. And I agree with Mrs Rotnicka that we have a problem with the fact that there is 70 years of experience in going to school and starting school by seven-year-olds. If we make such a big change, as a conservative, I would say this: one must be able to convince that this change is important and necessary. Arguments like that in most European countries... It seems to me that Europe is just culturally diverse, at least in my opinion it should be. And the best results are achieved by Finland, which, as I recall, has seven-year-olds with a school responsibilities. So there is no simple answer. The school system must be adapted to a certain cultural code that functions, to culture, habits, traditions in a given society. I don't think I'd say we've got it all. I'll call Mickiewicz here. Freshly monkey from the European Union. This isn't the way. Besides, I think we're mixing space and program. We're talking about the fact that for six-year-olds, carpets were bought in primary school, toilets were made, separate entrances, etc. And now it's all gonna go to waste. It's not like that. In fact, we make a choice. About the program, not about space. In many cities, in many municipalities there are school and pre-school teams, so if there is no first class in a given school, there may be a pre-school team there. This is one resolution of the city council or the commune council. This space can be used. Besides, it seems to me that the translation by the Platform of discussion: a six-year-old or seven-year-old into some hard material element, such that if we make a separate entrance, separate bathrooms and separate slides, parents would accept it, it was a fundamental mistake. The concern of parents was in something completely different. I feel that this problem has been recognised by Mr Napieralski, who put it this way: after all, we must educate children to the needs of the market. And here's my disagreement. I think that was the assumption, and that's a mistake. Indeed, there is a problem with innovation, but is teaching at school supposed to be preparing for a rat race? Is this problem that we have in Poland with innovation only based on knowledge, or on low social capital, trust capital, moral capital? The way I feel about it, it's more complex. Sometimes some educators tell me this: it is extremely important for a child to be saved as a child, because it is often more fun to learn than a certain school compulsion, and then it is social capital for the future. We don't have simple measurements of what kind of school is effective. At the moment there is a great world discussion about different educational systems, there is a great discussion in the world about what a new school should look like, how much new content should be passed on in a new spatial arrangement, whether one should break a school model, or should be preserved an old model, because it forces concentration. It is said that if we go into any news every time, there is a danger that the effect will be even more distracted by the ability to concentrate young people. At the moment, there are great world discussions on the market. It seems to me that this dogma of us raising to the needs of the market is very dangerous. I recommend another left-handed book Mr. Napieralski isn't here. Very interesting, Professor Potulicka, Neoliberal conditions of education, which shows the manners of this kind of thinking. Just because we have good results from 15-year-olds doesn't mean the whole system is good, because we're only doing one measurement. The measurement concerning twenty-five-year-olds, i.e. the effect after graduation, is not optimistic for Poland. We're losing something in college, or maybe this system is designed like this, that we have a good time, but at the finish line we're not the best. It seems to me that there is a problem with teachers in primary and kindergartens. After all, these are de facto the same people in terms of education profile, the same initial teaching. Therefore, the fear of dismissal is not entirely understandable to me. Please note that this bill, I would say, does not reduce the number of children. If we were to count the number of students in the preschool department, etc., although these proportions are quite similar... Consequently, from the Senate perspective, the number of posts will be a derivative of demography, not a change of the system, if we are talking about this change. Of course, this may mean that Jan Kowalski is losing, and Mrs Elwira Nowak is getting a job, but on a global scale, on a national scale, there is no such danger in my opinion. I'm having a little bit of doubt about the little things that are connected... maybe not the small ones, because they're about issues that restrict self-government. The decision on the liquidation of schools should be conditional on the agreement or disagreement of the Curatorium with regard to financial participation. I wish there was a partnership here. I'm a little worried about removing my participation in the parolee's competition. I understand that there is some clarity here that this is a state administration, and this is a local government and it has to be separated, but it gave some chance that these two sides Local government and state They will see each other to a greater extent. I'd rather have this choice... That's where I agree with Mr. Terminski. I think that's §16. It's about a more neutral way for a parent to decide whether to go to school as a six-year-old or a seven-year-old. What I think would be better, and it would be a de facto referendum. It's the parent who decides. It's the parent who makes the decisions. I wouldn't agree with such a... I think Mr. Wach was talking about selfishness. Perhaps there is a problem of selfishness in society, but in the case of 6-, 7-year-old children, these parents will do anything if they think it's good for their children. It hasn't worked in eight years to convince... This isn't a bunch of punks. This applies to the smallest people, especially loved by their parents. So it has to be explained that what you are proposing, what the Platform has proposed, was good. It didn't work. And one last thing. I think Mr. Augustine was talking about research, that we need to appeal to some research, measurements, etc. I feel that in the case of humanities it is very difficult to speak about what is clear in a given field. I sometimes joke that in humanities the principle of Heisenberg's insignificance applies to a particular degree: what we assume determines to a large extent the outcome that we achieve. So there's a very big measurement error. In educators, in developmental sciences there is a lot of fashion in my opinion, some trends that are in force once there was a frenzy for Steiner pedagogy and which later become certain curiosities in the history of pedagogy. In this respect, To be very, very careful. At the moment there's a big discussion, and it's said that the economy is looking this way, because I'm afraid of polemics from Professor Rocki's side. This is a humanistic science, a science that, among the humanities, is the most mathematical. And she's somehow criticized that she's doing some sort of extrapolation on short episodes, and worse with longer... Therefore, we are actually functioning in quite a lot of uncertainty. Our dispute is a dispute over how much power we have for our parents. I'm not saying that this power is boundless because there's a certain compulsion of school duty, but I think that dedication... trust in parents is a certain element of building a state that is not sovereign. That's a mistake that's been made, and I think it's an attempt to fix it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but before I speak to you, I would like to return to the same point as asking questions to a government representative who represents Senator Wargock... [[Voices from the hall: Minister.]] Minister Wargock, I'm sorry. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's time to the Minister. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I have a list of people who signed up earlier. Question number one... [[I'm driving now, right?]] [[No, no, Mr. Marshal, you weren't here at 8:15...]] [[What do you mean it wasn't?]] [[It wasn't.]] [[Because I filed a formal application. It's not like I'm gonna fold...]] Senator Dowhan came forward to ask questions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u165	But he's not here. This is Senator Piotr Zientarski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u166	Minister, I would like to ask about the ratio legis provision for increasing the powers for curators, and in particular their binding opinion on the optional possibility of running by the county and the municipality... i.e. the possibility of setting up and running as part of the tasks of public education institutions of teachers, teachers' training establishments and pedagogical libraries, which so far did not require any other provisions, because this was, and is still, an own task. For example, I don't really understand why creating a pedagogical library requires a binding opinion of your probation officer... [[Voice from the courtroom:...or your parole officer.]] ...or your parole officer, yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator George Wright. You're welcome. [[Voices from the O.R.: There isn't.]] There isn't. Mr. Senator Rulewski? There isn't. Senator Kilian? There isn't. Senator Oremski, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u168	I have a question about funding. If some parents withdraw their decision to send their 6-year-old children to primary schools, and in 2016, I understand, the funding provided and the parameters of September 2015 are taken into account. What may be the scale of the financial deficiencies in the case of 2017? In the case of Wrocław, it was estimated that this could result in about 20 million PLN... Is there any idea of the ministry what to do with it?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u169	Senator Andrzej Bear isn't here either. Senator Zdrojewska reporting. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u170	Dear Minister, I would like to return to your statement before you leave and ask why... You said that you would now meet very often with representatives of local governments, that you would agree on all these matters. Can you explain why you're in such a hurry? Why hasn't the consultation been done before? Why have local government voices been so neglected in this important matter? Senator Oremski didn't talk about it, but Wrocław, my city. We've calculated it very carefully. It will cost 20 million PLN. I would also like to join this question, what will happen next, after 2016. And the other thing. Here it rained in the discussion when you weren't... I would like to ask you very much to return to your statement on how to select probation officers. We were talking about representatives of local governments and you, if I understand the Minister correctly, said something that these representatives of local governments had been removed to improve something. I'd like you to explain... [[Senator, you're out of time. I'm sorry, but...]] I'm very sorry, but Mr. Marshal can... [[No, no. It should be a minute, and it's a minute twenty.]] Can't I finish the question? [[Excuse me, the time for questioning is over.]] Then I'll report again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u171	Please report up to ten times. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I will answer the senator's question about the probation officer's positive opinion when setting up libraries and teacher training centers. I can only answer as an analogy here. We talked about why such agreement is necessary in the framework of the supervision of the country's education policy. Here's one explanation that comes down to the fact that there's no reason for such facilities to be excluded from such supervision. This mainly applies to teacher training centres. So far, I haven't registered any private libraries... Perhaps I don't have any knowledge yet. So that it is simply the supervision of the school curator, and thus the minister of education over all the institutions operating in the education system. [[I'm sorry, Minister, it's not about supervision, it's about the possibility of setting up such facilities...]] It's about the network, it's about what are the facilities, where they work, how they work and how they're spread out territorially. Maybe I am unnecessarily prolonging and taking time, but I will say that when it comes to practical, continuous training centers, we can already see how the voivodship districts and local governments compete. Let us add to this a non-public facility and in one eighty thousand city, where there is a specific educational need for vocational training or retraining, we will have three or four entities, while in another part of the country such entities will not and people will have to commute from there. We want to look at the system in such a way that it meets as much as possible the educational needs of both children and young people and adults in terms of vocational training and lifelong learning. The second question is difficult for me to answer. What part of the parents are gonna pull the kids out of class one? We predicted this difficulty. As you may have noticed, there is a record of March 31st in the bill. Until 31 March, parents of first-class children who want the child to continue in this class in the following school year, i.e. after the assessment that the child has difficulty adapting... Such information should be submitted to the school principal by 31 March 2016. This will ensure that by 30 June the school administration will have full information about how the number of classes will work out. Thus, in the first class there will be 91,000 children who, as six-year-olds, have been reassigned to the zero classes, or so-called deferred; there will be a group of children whose parents will ask to repeat the class and make appropriate statements by 31 March; and there will be a group of children whose parents will decide that the six-year-olds are ready for school, they will be happy and happy to go to the first class. According to observations conducted in years where there was no school obligation for six-year-olds, the rate of parents who sent six-year-old children to school ranged from 20 to a dozen percent. I think in those conditions that haven't changed dramatically, about 15%. Parents will decide to send their six-year-old children to school next year. We'll know that on June 30th. That is why it is very difficult for me to ask questions about what the costs will be and how it will look like. What's after 2016? Let me repeat, because I said this in the first part of my speech, that we believe that the year 2016 is financially secured in local governments. Of course, point problems due to the small number of children may occur. As far as 2017 is concerned, it is announced in general, it can be said that a new approach and the opening of discussions with local governments on the financing of local governments. Also on our part, as a school resort, we see that education subsidy is not an ideal instrument that divides money into educational tasks in Poland. So it's hard for me to judge all of this today. It is certainly necessary to examine the instrument itself, which is educational subsidy, but also the share of municipalities in taxes. How to select curators and remove voivodship self-government. Ladies and gentlemen, in principle, no major debate has taken place on this subject, but it is simple to say that, in the current legal state, the voivodship council is a leading body for a very small number of schools, at the moment mostly adult schools, social services and such schools. The voivodship government is therefore not some representative body of all local governments. But if we were looking for organizations that are representatives of local governments, In other words, it is the union of counties, cities and cities that we would certainly have a problem with choosing such representatives in a fair way, because in every voivodship the situation may be different. And because we're getting out of this kind of principle of co-operation with the local government... But this cooperation doesn't have to take place at the level of the parole officer's election, because this probation officer's relationship The government is supposed to reschedule... It is supposed to try to be harmonious at the stage of cooperation. So when there is a representative of the voivodship, a representative of the ministry and 3 large union headquarters, this is, as we believe, an entity that can select a candidate without any unnecessary expansion of this jury. Maybe I'll just finish a little bit of the speech that I didn't finish because I went to the vote. I will return to places in kindergartens, because this is a really very often raised problem by local governments. In some local governments, that could be a big problem. We're not questioning that. But it's in some, not all of them. Because you know that local governments were organizing preschool units in schools to free their seats in kindergartens for younger children. So in general, where there were premises, free classrooms, these rooms were adapted and adapted to preschool conditions, to the needs of six-year-olds. This process has been taking place over the years, as I said, there have been very valuable investments in infrastructure. And right now, there are over 100,000 five-year-olds in these preschool branches in schools who will stay in these schools and become six-year-olds. So you see, this is not a problem for the entire population, because for some five-year-olds, kindergartens were organized in schools. So in these kindergartens, it's kind of... [[No new five-year-olds?]] Please? [[What about the six-year-olds? They're staying...]] But I'm talking preschool wards. The kindergartens are here and here, that's why... Yes, sir. So there is kind of an opportunity to solve this problem. There is another provision in this law, which is precisely designed to facilitate the development of schools to local authorities, especially in rural areas, so that they become kindergartens. By 3 years we extend the deadline by which local governments sort of adjust these rooms to the standard of kindergartens. At the moment, the legal situation is that the rule was due to enter into force on 1 September 2016. The municipalities reported that in some cases they needed hundreds of thousands of zlotys to achieve these standards. We have extended this period so that the municipalities do not give up the creation of these places. We will try to support these small schools wherever possible, so that there are kindergartens with good conditions, and perhaps in the future some other forms of care, of the younger child, if necessary. There are 50,000 vacant places in kindergartens... There are non-public kindergartens which are treated very differently by different local authorities. Maybe it's time for the government to reach wider, to... Here's our analysis of how many places there are in kindergartens... There are about 60,000 places in non-public kindergartens. People were encouraged to do this kindergarten business, people invested in it, created places in kindergartens, and these places in kindergartens are waiting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u173	Thank you, Minister. Senator Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! When I asked the senator the rapporteur questions, I asked him... He was unable to answer this question because it turned out that this matter was not discussed at the committee meeting, so it is a request that the Minister give me an answer. First question. After 1 September in first classes in many municipalities I gave an example of Łeba, the municipality of Cewice will be after several people, e.g. There are supposed to be 2 people in the Łeba, 7 people in the school in Cewice. As you can see, the possibility of solving the problem of such schools, for example. In the case of Blade, this is the only school in town... How can we solve the first class of seven - year - old children? And now the second question. This law, as I listen to the discussion, the debate here in our House, will probably be adopted in the form that came to us from the Sejm, and this optional participation of children aged 6 in primary schools will receive support in going to the first class. I would therefore like to ask what government policy will be on this issue: will the government encourage parents of children to go to school, or will it discourage you from doing so, or will it be indifferent to you? Because it's a policy, a philosophy.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u175	Mr. Senator, you're way out of time, two questions have been asked. Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u176	The Minister, twice and a moment ago, you once again said that you have secured funds for 2016 for this operation. However, we have heard from the rapporteur that these are only 74 million zlotys. We hear that Wrocław estimates these costs at 20 million, Poznan If these estimates of local governments The government, because the state didn't make any estimates, will turn out to be true, so that's enough money for a few local governments. What about the whole country? How do you know that's enough?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u177	Thank you very much. Senator Szymanski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u178	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the discussion, many senators and many senators who oppose the solution contained in this law stressed that this is a delay in the start of the school obligation of children. However, this law makes it very clear that children have been obliged to raise preschool children since they were six years of age. How does the Ministry, the Minister, assess this preschool education, its standards? Is this what is most appropriate for children at this age, that is, does it provide the most proper education and education at this age? I ask because, in fact, we are dealing with a situation in which the child is absent from his family and has received preschool education, in accordance with this law since he was six years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u179	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u180	Thank you very much. Of course, there will be situations in small towns where there are 2 or 3 children in the yearbook, or even none of them were born in this yearbook, but perhaps I would say that earlier to go to school and return will gather in the area of a given school, in the circuit group of 3 and 4 students. I will refer to this form of teaching organisation in small rural schools, which is called the combined classes. These combined classes are not very few in our system, because about 10% all classes These are combined classes. Teachers are prepared to individualise requirements and working methods. [[Would that be a class composed of children of several schools? Would that be children picked up from different schools and brought in?]] Yeah, with a delivery obligation. This is also due to the statistical size of the school branch, I stress, the statistical size of the rural branch. Such a statistical size is 7 students. We have introduced regulations to make it mandatory to organize a branch if there are more than 7 students in the nearest region or region. These are regulations that, on the one hand, will prevent children from being transported several dozen kilometers to create a 20-person class, because we can imagine that in large municipalities, and on the other hand will be information for the payer of the educational subsidy, the Minister, so that he will know how many of these small schools he has and that this problem needs to be looked at individually when developing the concept of education subsidy for 2017. [[They're big schools, only kids...]] We're talking about this particular yearbook... [[Mr. Senator, we're not having a debate here, we're not having a discussion, we're just asking questions, and please don't disturb the Minister. There you go.]] Thank you very much. This law is largely a transitional law, for the next school year, with guidelines on how to organize teaching, a class in a situation where the yearbook is less numerous than usual. So that's all this is about. And so are the limits of the 7 students in the classroom. What is government policy? Will we encourage or discourage? This is a very important question. I think that by giving this bill to society, we should be neutral as government and politicians, really leave the matter to parents, teachers in kindergartens who hopefully They will support their parents in these decisions, if they have doubts, and school heads, self-government units, which should also not make any disincentives or encourage them to leave their children in the same class, encourage their parents or advise them not to repeat their first-class children. Here we really need to appeal to the wisdom and responsibility of all those who will participate in this process. We believe that some 6-year-olds can take school, should, we think that some local governments are very well prepared for this, but you will not check it out, but you will check it out by your parent. I have heard such voices from my parents myself: I would gladly send a child to a nursery in school if there was care for eight hours and if I was sure that the child would stay in this school. Because parents would also like to give the child a better chance to develop not in kindergarten anymore, small, cozy, only in school, in a larger team, but still in a safe classroom, with a tutor, with full care... [[Dinner.]] ...with dinner and so on. So it really depends on the goodwill of parents. With regard to Wrocław, Senator, this is so converging information from Wrocław... I was able to tell you that Wroclaw reported that there were no problems until today. But that's by the way. So... [[...is Senator Oremski. It's definitely not Wroclaw...]] No, I spoke in person. About the question, have we estimated... We'll estimate after 30 June when we know what classes are, how numerous they are and how they've spread out. But I repeat once again: the education subsidy, which, as I say, is already part of the budgets of local government units, includes the entire yearbook of 6-year-old children, from September to December... it is considered as pupils of the school, i.e. there is a full grant, depending on whether the school is in the country or in the city, 6 or 7 thousand PLN. So you're welcome to speak to the local governments again... I know there's little money in local governments, but there's not a lot of money because of the fact that the resources for educational tasks have been cut or reduced. Because in the case of 2016 it is quite the opposite. Plus a preschool grant increased by 65 PLN. With regard to local government estimates, simulations are being made, on purely theoretical assumptions, according to such pre-accepted indicators as the number of classes will be if 20% The kids will be back from first class, 20% of the parents will be out... Well, you could say that we can have some ideas, but this isn't data... [[Voice from the room: Hard.]] ...for financial estimates. Pre-school preparation is mandatory for six-year-olds. This is really very important, and this should be emphasised. It was really a very good reform, it was a very good idea, just meeting the needs of children to gather into preschool teams... to introduce elements of writing, reading and accounting in the methodology of science and play in 2007. It was a very good idea because the child was starting to learn how to work in a team, learning through fun, being prepared for the activities that take place at school. So we really don't feel like the kids are gonna get hurt because they've been back to school for seven years. Because what happened, so to speak, with an offer for the entire population, i.e. six-year-olds in school, practically reduced the period in which each child could, according to his individual intellectual and emotional development, grow up to the tasks of the student. Because now the 0th grade has become Class I. And certainly in worse circumstances than before... So that we enter the system tested and do it really without complexes of the type that we are worse, because in other countries younger children go to school. This really is not an argument for parents or those responsible for education.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u181	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Florek, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In the budget of municipalities, especially small municipalities, education costs are 50% , and sometimes more. You said that the educational subsidy, previously also... that the municipalities spend on other purposes. And I'd like to know if you're pulling out of that statement. Because I've talked to a lot of municipalities, and they always say that education subsidies are too small, not enough. And you said... Self-government and probation officer, ma'am. I'm talking about shutting down schools, connecting schools, heating issues... Self-governments will have an interest in eliminating these schools, but if we consider that children should have as close as possible to school, etc., then, of course, the probation officer will have a very different opinion here. You were only talking about next year's solution. Well, that's too bad, because when we change the bill, we should have a vision not only for next year, but for the target vision. [[Secretary of State at Teresa Wargock's Ministry of National Education: You can't do everything in a month.]] And one last question. 650 000 teachers in Poland, 5 million students, 8 students per teacher, 12, 14 students in other European countries. And now it's gonna be another empty year. Well, maybe not completely empty because you said 10%, 15% maybe 20% of the students will go, but it'll be almost an empty year. So I ask again: how does this apply to teachers? Unfortunately, I am convinced that without dismissal, this reform will not work if it is implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u183	Thank you very much. Senator Terminski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u184	Good morning. Minister, I have the following question. During the debate, I tabled an amendment that is sort of going in the direction that you were just talking about, i.e. this neutrality about parents' decision to send their children to school sooner or later. And that's why I'd like to ask you something. My amendment boils down to the deletion of... I don't know if you have a bill in front of you. It's about removing the lithium. b in Article. 1 in point 5, in Article. 16. It's a recipe in this letter. b defines when a school principal can accept a student at the age of 6. And it defines it as follows: it can accept or when the child in question has benefited from preschool education, which in itself is contrary to lit. b in point 2, according to which compulsory pre-school preparation concerns six-year-old children, or, if the child has an appropriate certificate from a psychological and pedagogical clinic, which, in my opinion, is already an interference in the possibility for parents to decide. I would therefore like to hear your opinion on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u185	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at Teresa Wargock's Ministry of National Education: Excuse me, are the microphones working well? I can't hear you very well.]] They don't work well, Minister, but... do you wish to repeat the question? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: No, no.]] I'm gonna turn it up because I can't hear very well. Oh, here we go, now we're gonna hear better. Now you're asking Senator Kilian a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u186	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, Minister Zalewska and Prime Minister in their statements often emphasize that they listen to Poles and talk to Poles. And my question: how many times has Minister Zalewska recently met with our local government? How many local government officials attended these meetings? What is the percentage of the number of municipalities in our country? And second question. Did Minister Zalewska meet with the trade unions of teachers It's about solidarity and the CIS. And is there an opinion of these organizations? If so, I would ask for a brief summary of the opinions of these organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u187	Thank you very much. And Senator Zientarski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u188	Mr. Marshal, Minister, two short questions. The first point concerns the possibility, so to speak, of the transition of early-school teachers to pre-school pre-school specializations. Is it easy to pass if you only have early-school specialization, without additional courses, 3-year or 3-semester courses, as I heard? That's the first question. Second question. Don't you expect to get involved in organizational and financial problems in 2017?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u189	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u190	Education expenses for other purposes. In this respect, there are reports from the Supreme Audit Chamber which clearly indicate that the transfer of schools to other entities is intended to make savings in the local government. This phenomenon has become so disturbing that the Ombudsman has been sending letters for several years. And he also sent this year, on 1 December, a letter to Minister Zalewski, suggesting that this matter should be captured in a special way, examined and, as it were, acted in the interest of public education, so as to limit such situations. or even eliminate it. It can be said that those who have less own income are taking a little bit more from this subsidy, as the report shows, but there are also a lot of local authorities who add large resources to the functioning of schools and kindergartens on the basis of their advice. It really looks very different on a national scale, and I don't have hard data, but I have my own view and hunch that those self-governments who understand that the child is an investment are more. One empty year. Well, I could argue that one empty year will only be when this extra yearbook of six-year-olds, which is currently in classes I.III, will leave the early schooling stage. Then we'll actually run out of work for teachers and say that one year old is gone. We've added that yearbook, ladies and gentlemen. Think about it, all of these, especially the trade unionists, who say that teachers will lose their jobs: we have added this yearbook because we have the first class and we still have the pre-school pre-school pre-school pre-school prep. In fact, in the long term, We're the ones who gave you the job. It's a question of qualification. Why are we not afraid that there will be large school leave in 2016? That's why we're not afraid that the number of students... the number of children generally doesn't change. They're in a different place in the system: they didn't go to class I, but they stayed in the undergarments. And I assure you, sir. I don't remember what year this regulation is. That the qualification requirements for kindergarten teachers and early schooling are the same. And if we're dealing with one lead authority, moving such teachers in an organisational sense is really not a big problem. Another thing about hiring teachers. Just because there are fewer students doesn't mean there are less classes, it doesn't translate directly in proportion. We really need to approach this very well and, above all, all those who care about education must realise that the number of students entering the system will become smaller and fewer places will be needed in kindergartens and fewer places in schools. Unfortunately, those children weren't born. Self-governments say there's no room. Yes, let's make these places, build kindergartens, but make sense. Because in 2017, it's like preschool children are going to be 56,000 less, because they weren't just born. And we're already entering a stage like this. When can he... It's a question about the law itself, the merriment of this law, so I'm going to try to answer clearly. This is a compromise, because to be honest, in the first version of the civil project, there was a more restrictive provision for the adoption of a six-year-old child to school. There was a record that children born from January to December were to have a decision of counsellors. But that is what discussion, consultation and consideration of parents' requests and the voices of the opposition Members are all about, that we have changed our minds. And we agreed on such a record that so that the child could start school in class I as a six-year-old, this First condition He must be five years old in kindergarten. If he's in kindergarten, we understand that he's using a kindergarten teacher's help, and when it comes to school readiness, someone can help, advise a parent. If he didn't go to kindergarten Because there is no preschool obligation for 5-year-olds in our act If he stays home, in this case the parent is obliged to consult a psychologist/pedagogical clinic in order to give an opinion on the child. And these are the only conditions Or a year in kindergarten as a five-year-old, or if the child did not go to kindergarten for some reason, the opinion of the specialist clinic. Have I explained this question? No? [[Well, that's okay. Mr. Senator Augustine...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I didn't get an answer to my question about self-government.]] [[And you won't.]] How many times has the Minister met with the local government? Yeah, me, too. I mean, it was about whether or not this bill was consulted. Ladies and gentlemen, as I recall, the Minister was appointed on November 18th, me two days later. On 6 December, the law was filed in the Sejm. I mean, it was three weeks. As a citizen's project for this reason that... [[Messengers.]] ...to make these difficult changes, so expected by some parents, we could not afford to proceed with this law in February or March, or even at the end of January. This concerns the following school year, and you know that any resolutions related to the liquidation of schools are already being taken, that recruitment starts in a moment, that it was necessary to give parents time to think whether they wanted the child to repeat class I. This topic, this project was really discussed in the Seym and the Senate for years. There were probably five approaches in parliament to talk about six-year-olds. These are years of consultation. The Minister met with all the trade unions and local authorities who wanted to consult. And that's all the time in the world. [[But what percentage is this compared to the number of municipalities?]] Sir... [[Mr. Senator...]] Sir, I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u191	But I didn't say... Okay, Minister. But I didn't give you the senator's voice. [[97.5%. Is that enough?]] Now you're asking Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u192	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Minister, in point 5, in terms of change, obliges the state of the local authorities, using the word'should', to ensure both the annual preschool preparation for five-year-olds and the possibility of carrying out pre-school education. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 6 in paragraph 2. 5 You say that this obligation must be fulfilled even if the grant to the municipality would be reduced. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: There are regulations.]] How are municipalities supposed to deal with this problem? That's the first question. And the other. You expressed yourself in the previous part of the debate in this way... very negative for non-public schools. You showed your wages and your hours as negative indicators. However, the current legal status was to serve to ensure that there were more children in school and that there was no need to close schools. Now we have the opposite situation, and where there will be no pre-school offices, it will actually kill children and close schools, small schools will be inevitable.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u193	Thank you. Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u194	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, At today's committee meeting, I did not hear about two things that I would like to hear from you personally today, if that is possible. Namely one short question. Dear Minister, how come you're in such a hurry? To be honest with you, I'm serious about this. I said this in my speech, but we should give ourselves some time, and as we meet at least in a few days, we should return to such a very important amendment of the law. [[For five years to go on like this?]] No, no, I'm talking about a few days. I'm very sorry, Senator, I'm addressing the Minister, not you. My second question is to subsidize preschool education. The legislator noted that from September to December 2016, the number of children in pre-school branches will increase significantly. So he assumes silently that in most cases, parents will not send six-year-olds to school, so it will reduce the education subsidy that is charged to a student, not to a child... [[But, Senator, you have to ask a question, not a thesis.]] Well, that's the question. [[Okay, but it's been a minute and thirty-two...]] I'm almost done. [[You're welcome.]] ...not a kid who goes to a zero-year-old. Here's my question. The parliamentary project does not describe the financial consequences of the proposed changes. At least I haven't read anything like that, maybe the minister will tell us today.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u195	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u196	Thank you very much. I'll try to fit in a minute and ask specifically. Minister, can you name the pros of the current bill, the one that's in force, the pros that the six-year-olds have gone to school, and can you name the cons of this law that is currently in force? [[State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Meaning the one that is currently in force or the one that is being introduced?]] No, the one that's in force. The one that's in force.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u197	Minister, the pros and cons of the fact that six-year-olds are at school. Senator Bear. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u198	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have two or actually three questions. The first question is this: what led to the fact that, as regards the requirements that the probation officer must fulfil, the state resigned from an internship in a position requiring pedagogical supervision? You increase the powers of the curators and at the same time reduce the requirements for their professional experience. That's the first question. Two. Why did you give up the participation of representatives of local governments in the competition committee to select curators? There are only representatives of the minister, voivodship and trade unions, while there are no representatives of local governments. And the third question. The Minister, answering one of the questions just now, said that teachers of integrated early-school education can teach in kindergarten. On what basis? Because I know that teachers with a specialty of integrated early-school education cannot teach in kindergarten, just as teachers with a specialty of pre-school education cannot teach in classes I.III. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u200	I think the question of why I was in such a hurry to adopt this law was answered. We really want to give local governments, parents every week we can for good preparation for this change. We believe that in the discussion about the return to the previous school age, everything and in various forums has really been said during these five years. Donating preschool education. In 2013, with a view to supporting the creation of places in kindergartens, a so-called subjective grant was introduced for each child who is in kindergarten. The subject grant is to be increased every year. In 2016, it was raised by PLN 65, resulting in a total of 74 million. The grant is paid on the basis of children's records in kindergartens. If the local government arranges this place, they'll get a grant for it, and if they don't. He won't get it. The grant depends not on the number of pre-school children, but on the actual number of places in pre-school. This is supposed to help local governments and motivate them to create such places. [[Minister, I'd like to ask...]] Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u201	Does the word "should" mean that four-year-olds must have pre-school care provided by local authorities despite a reduction in their education grant?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u202	Why do you have this in common with your education grant for four-year-olds? Again... [[It's the same budget as...]] [[Don't exaggerate.]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I am very clear that if the government organises places in kindergartens for 100% four-year-olds and 100% parents will send children to kindergarten, then local government will receive 100% grants, i.e. PLN 1 thousand 370 per place. It depends not on the number of children, but on the number of places created and occupied by children. [[But what does the word "should" mean? Do local governments have to prepare seats for 100% of four-year-olds or not?]] No. In the current state of law is the right of a 4- and 5-year-old child to a place in kindergarten. Some people's right comes from the obligation of others. Right? So local authorities should respond to the existing need and take place in kindergartens, pre-school branches or other forms of pre-school education. In the current legal state, a 3-year-old parent will have this right from September 2017. This is the current legal situation. We did not change the entry about 2017, because we would make it difficult for local governments to implement educational law. So he stays here for another year. Pros and cons for a six-year-old. [[Mr. Marshal, I didn't get an answer to my question.]] Maybe in a minute. Write, ask...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u203	Minister, I asked you a very important question. I want to say something about a Salesian elementary school that works as a non-public school. Does your words, so critical to non-public schools, indicate that the ministry is misguided by these schools, that they will be in danger? You know, Minister, people listen to this, so... [[This is innuendo.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u204	Good. I am very pleased that the senator has clarified his question. This is really important. When they change, so to speak, the authorities in the ministry or the persons responsible for the resort, then they make certain declarations. I make a very official declaration that the Ministry of Education has absolutely no wrong opinion about the organisation of non-public education in Poland. The rules don't change. It's 100% here. grants, just like they've been so far. I really don't know what words to use. I don't even know how the senator could understand me that way. [[Because the Minister was critical of the fact that there are wages, if I remember correctly, 60% higher than those in public schools, and that there are 40% more hours. Those are your words.]] Okay, I get it. This is an overinterpretation. I used an example from the control of the NIK in relation to schools that local governments pass on to associations, saying, "We can't do it, we don't do it as parents organize, they can lead." And I gave this example so that I could have an argument in such a thread as what happens in the education system with teachers whose relationships are so defending. Why are these schools still there? Because teachers give up their teacher's card and they have 40%. lower wages and 30% Long time... [[Yeah, and they make half as much money.]] Yes. And that only applies to these situations. In many private schools, salaries are good, teachers are satisfied, there is a Teacher Card or even better, because it looks different. In fact, non-public education is another segment of education, an additional segment. And what happens in local governments is largely for financial reasons, often... [[Demographic low.]] ...and the demographic, and the financial... That's what we'd like to do as a department of education to lift up. Because if we allow the liquidation of schools in the villages where we have already eliminated post, bus stop and police station, we can really plow the hectares of Poland. I'm sorry to be so graphical and straightforward... [[If he's got anybody.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...but sometimes you have to say it so simply. Ladies and gentlemen, small schools, rural schools, everyone who is in education and is observing students' performance, knows that. They become expected and elite schools. If I hear from politicians that there's so much defavorisation in these villages and so huge... I don't want to use the word "patology," but such a poor chance... That is, ladies and gentlemen, not true. A small school with good staff is just beginning to work, because a teacher in the city and in the country is now equally qualified, and often more ambitious to work with a child and to prove himself. The results of the exams and tests are already saying that schools in rural areas are starting to be better than those in big cities, than those school piers, and look at all kinds of competitions and winners... We need to stop thinking about stereotypes and certain patterns, we need to stop repeating and perpetuating them. [[Applause]] I think I'm gonna-- I'm gonna say this briefly, 'cause I don't really think this is the time to say this, last night to the first night, tonight from the eighth in the Senate... Ladies and gentlemen, the minus six-year-old at school is one: the entire population of six-year-olds in the last year has been sent there by force. This really is one minus. [[Voice from the O.R.: Not all of them.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, she was sent there by force, and in the case of 91,000 children, top-class specialists, psychologists, educators have issued certificates that the child does not qualify for school duties. So let's not get enchanted by some communal community that all six-year-olds like one husband, like one team, are going and doing great because reality doesn't look like that. The reality is that about 20% we have confirmation for them. And what did those parents survive to get those certificates... You need to hang out on the Internet a little bit or talk to your parents. This bill was the compulsion of a state which met with such a reaction and the outrage it deserved. That's how I diagnose it. [[Applause]] The probation officer's requirements. In fact, it could be said That's the first combination. If someone has no experience in pedagogical supervision, i.e. he is not a minimum principal or vice principal of the school, he cannot supervise all schools or institutions in the area. I think that a photo of this requirement makes it possible for the competition to enter a wider spectrum of people working in education and for education and having a lot of experience, and I am thinking here mainly of local staff in education departments, teacher training centres, excellent teachers. It doesn't have to be the man who worked at the parole board who knows the parole board. Let me be honest with you, because of the changes that we have to make in education, it might even be good if the probation officer wasn't. Because you need another look at education. Resignation of a representative of the local government... I've already discussed this so that you can... [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u205	Now, Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Yes.]] This is Senator Dobrzyński, please. [[Mr. Marshal, I asked the third question. The minister spoke to me at the time...]] [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal...]] [[...with one of her employees, and she probably didn't hear my question.]] [[Voice from the room: Say it again.]] Say again, Senator, a question you haven't gotten an answer to.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u206	Good. The Minister, in her speech, answered one of the questions, said that the teacher of integrated early-school education could teach in kindergarten. Well, tell me, under what rule... The teacher of preschool education must not teach in classes I.III, i.e. integrated early-school education, and vice versa... Unless it has two specializations: pre-school specialization and integrated early-school education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u207	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u208	Yes, thank you. The legal department sent me a note... The legal basis is the decree of the Minister of Education of 12 March 2009 on the specific qualifications required of teachers. So there was a change of law in this area. [[And who was the minister then? The clue must be...]] [[But this regulation doesn't say that.]] But I just got word that this is... [[All right. Then please read the contents of this regulation...]] [[Okay, but this isn't...]] Mr. Senator, read to yourself...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u209	Mr. Senator, this is not a committee of inquiry. We ask questions... [[State Secretary at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Please read...]] [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but...]] Excuse me, I'll read it, ladies and gentlemen, where we are at. At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute. I repeat: no more than a minute I don't know if that's exactly the question on this point, but the minister replied very specifically to the senator. [[Dear Marshal, I have received a partial reply. I'd like to clarify if you'll allow me.]] Then come in later, Mr. Senator. Senator Dobrzyński now, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u210	I've been looking forward to... Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister... First, I would like to remind the Senators of the Civic Platform that this law has been consulted as far as possible, because less than 2 million signatures have been collected. It was mentioned on the radio, on television, in the Seym and in the Senate. So asking such questions is just hypocritical. [[But please, Mr. Senator, just ask the question briefly. Get to the point.]] Shortly, Mr. Marshal. Senators of the Civic Platform have made it clear, Minister, that one of the reasons, quite important, was the concern for a place in kindergartens... Several senators spoke about it. I have the impression that this law, the previous of course, which today, thank God, is being amended, was designed to move children from kindergarten to schools that were not and until today are not prepared. Does the Minister have any documents at the Ministry... Do you feel the same way about me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u212	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Minister, for the great downside that you have imposed on the law in force. I disagree because I'm the father of a six-year-old who's very happy that he went to school. I'm happy for you, too. I remembered that my eldest son was born on December 31st and went to school in normal mode, I mean as a seven-year-old, but really as a six-year-old, because a whole year back... And tomorrow instead of celebrating 18 with him, I'll probably be debating here another bill you'll bring to us at night. I have a question, Minister, whether there have been any studies, analyses, surveys among teachers, or perhaps among children, during the period when this bill is sort of ongoing... [[Among the children?]] And why can't you ask six-year-olds how they feel at school in a new reality? [[Voice from the room: Sure you can.]] Mine are fine, but maybe it's different for you, which is why I'd like to know the answer. Whether the Ministry is prepared for this, or the bill comes in because it's just supposed to come in, because we're playing chord, not... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u213	Is it over, Senator? Yes? Thank you very much. Senator Komarnicki wanted to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u214	Thank you very much. I've been partly answered by your master, but I'd like to concentrate... Because you have not fully developed the issue of 65 PLN, which, as you rightly pointed out, is the difference between 1 thousand 305 PLN and 1 thousand 370 PLN. I'm talking about losing the student grant. Surely it is not necessary to remind that the subsidy for one primary school student is, for example. in rural conditions, 7 thousand PLN. And therefore we expect reliable calculations. And I am sorry to say that unfortunately, Minister, the parliamentary project did not contain a description of the financial consequences of these precisely designed changes. So I'd just like to clarify this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. Will anyone else join the series so there are three people asking the question? No. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u216	Thank you very much. I answer Senator Dobrzyński's question. My assessment of the reasons why school age was reduced is unfortunately very similar. Of course, there are no documents for this, but we do know how serious the previous governing team took the directives and guidelines of the European Parliament, the European Union, and there is a 100% indicator. places in kindergartens for children aged 3 to 6 years. And I think it was such an intense attempt to prove ourselves again and to be the top man in the European Union, to show off: here we will kneel down, do everything we have to do, and boast. I'm sorry, that's a bitter political truth, but that's what I'm entitled to, because really, what's been going on for a few years, what's been done to make it happen, in many situations, is that the argument is non-essential. So maybe it was an argument. Were there any tests done? Since 12 November 2015, we have not commissioned and conducted any research into the success of 6-year-olds in schools. These studies that were done earlier were about those six-year-olds who went to school on the first pitch, with parental consent, by choice. These studies showed that these children were doing well. That was 20%. population. And I'm not surprised there's such a study. The senator's two children also managed because they had school maturity. But the tests are coming up now. Especially since these are also the comments of teachers and parents Which reveal the problem that in Class IV there were children a year younger, and this concerns situations already such, let's say, absolutely typical of the organization of the school, i.e. class changes, carrying a briefcase, roads to the cafeteria, behaviour in the locker room, full independence, issues of teaching several subjects, homework from several subjects... And here are the first disturbing signals, because it's hard to talk about comprehensive research. But I think we're really talking about the success of this move, which we're contributing to now in some way, which means that a 6-year-old child goes to school... We really will have the results of this only after the end of the cycle of education, because developmental psychology tells us a lot about the development of the human person, about individual development, about developmental jumps, about the deficits associated with it. So, I think, let's not give each other a round of applause, or the other crew, or us. We'll see. We operate under experimental conditions. Donation, 7,000... I'm gonna say it again because we can't understand each other. The subsidy of 2016 was charged to all 6-year-olds. Six-year-olds in some percentage since September will not go to school, we do not know what, but the subsidy for these children in local governments is. [[But it's gonna go down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will try not to let it go. [[According to the law, she should...]] [[Voice from the room: We will. Where are the calculations, Minister?]] Where's the math? On June 30, we'll know how many children we have in kindergarten and how many children we have in schools. Really, a year is a difficult, transitional year. But let me tell you, you didn't ask such questions in a situation where, for five years, parents could voluntarily send their children six years of age to school and they could report these children to school on vacation. And then there was no debate, what the government would do, when 10 or 20 more children came, or how many children would be in the class, or how he would handle it. Let's be a little honest. [[He was getting a grant for that baby.]] No... [[Okay, but it's already...]] But the information got very late and he could never plan the number of children in classes, he didn't know how many students he had.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u217	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Stanisław Rooster. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Dear guests! I have a question, Minister, because the previous coalition is so violently attacking the Law and Justice programme. Is it true that when some small rural schools were passed on to associations, 20,000 teachers and about 7,000 small rural schools were handed over during the previous coalition? And is it true that the cost of living fell on local governments and the profits were taken by associations? And the third question. The Minister, the previous coalition, is so concerned about teachers, and we are proposing integration schools, integration classes in which there will be 15 healthy children, and from 3 to 5 disabled children, and there will be a teacher and an auxiliary teacher. And teachers just get a job. And four. After all, this is a multi-annual program...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u219	But, Senator, the question is, you're out of time. [[But I'm asking the fourth question.]] But there's a minute, Mr. Senator, I... [[Excuse me...]] You've been asking twenty-two minutes... [[I'm sorry.]] Mr. Senator, everyone's in order... [[Thank you. I'm signing up for the next question.]] Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Retired people speak slower.]] Okay, but we have regulations and we have to follow the rules. [[Yes, Mr. Marshal. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Yes, sir.]] You're welcome, Senator... [[Grodzki.]] Senator Tomasz Grodzki. [[Yes, sir.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. You used a dangerous phrase: we operate in experimental mode. And Mr. Marshal as an outstanding surgeon, and as a medical representative, we know that an experiment on a living organism requires the approval of an ethical committee. Isn't it better... Please tell me, I'm going back to this with some stubbornness. Isn't it better... Would there be any harm if we passed this bill in, for example, two months? Because, as I recall, the end of the year is in June, the beginning in September, and there are some basics of the program at the meetings of the pedagogical councils. I'm not a professional in this matter... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: No.]] Answer me this question: would something dramatic happen? We violate the Senate's Rules of Procedure on urgent laws, etc., by forcefully adopting this law now. Would something have happened if we had her approved in two months?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u221	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister. [[Secretary of State at Teresa Wargock's Ministry of National Education: Uh, no more questions, right?]] Yes. You asked Senator Rooster and Senator Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u222	Mr. Senator, I can't confirm the statistics because I didn't do that analysis and I didn't get to them, I don't know if it's 20,000 teachers and 7,000 small schools. Nevertheless, so to speak, I accept that. In a sense, we are trying to capture these problems at this point. What has been eliminated has been eliminated. Certainly not only savings on education or saving, or smaller grants to education for local governments, but also demography influenced this. We have to be here... [[Excuse me, Minister, I would like to say here that there is also a possibility to give a written answer to the question.]] Good. [[Yes? Is that okay, Minister?]] Yes, of course, after analysis. [[Okay, I'm the one who typed it in. Please.]] This is the first time I've played such a role, that we have such a free conversation: the answer. Next time, I'm gonna try to think more analytically about the words I'm using, because I can see that every word can be an excuse for... [[He may turn against the Minister.]] ...to take a thread. Of course, I know what the word "experiment" means and it was not used for this year. Let us say that this is our first experience in the need to organize not very many branches. What happens if we wait two months? Let me give you an example. The parents of 6-year-olds in the first classes will have a month to think about, consult and decide whether they want their children to repeat the first class. [[It's beneficial.]] No, it's very unfavorable because now they have three months to do it. They can talk in the family, they can talk to the child, they can organize help, they can talk to the teacher, they can even ask the specialist if it would be good for the child to repeat the class. That's for example. The second example. In February, local government councils begin discussing the liquidation of school networks, etc. Right? Therefore, the second part of our law, the one that talks about supervision of the curator and about this first look at the school network and these decisions, is also very important. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't underestimate this problem this year. I already said in the first part of my speech that we understand the situation of local governments whose income is falling, which over the last eight years have received a lot of additional responsibilities without asking whether they have the resources for it or not. The third year of EU perspective is coming and they would like to benefit from this perspective because they are looking for money everywhere. It is not that we do not see it and we do not understand it, but it cannot be allowed to do so in such a way as to cause pathology, that the local government, the local government unit, should remove responsibility for the education policy of the country in the area and pass on all its schools to other entities and legal persons, and such situations happen. Let's take a look at the role of a parole officer to judge fairly, and I promise you that in those situations where the parole officer's decision is that this school should stay, because this, this, and social considerations, will be directed to appropriate assistance. I can declare this to you in a very general way, because that will be the course of our action. Maybe it'll be worth trying, not fighting him and looking at a black people who won't be able to eliminate empty schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Krystian Probie, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u224	Minister, I would like to ask a very brief, concrete question. Do you know how much the bag weighs? or the backpack of this six - or a seven-year-old? I'll answer right away. There was much talk about the advantages of our reform, but one recommendation was not said, namely that when a child goes to school later, as a seven-year-old, he would not have to wear 8 kg on his back for a year. This is one of the biggest advantages no one's talking about here today. I weighed the bag myself... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock:...his grandson.]] ...my granddaughter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u225	Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Thank you very much. No comment, because it's...]] Good. I don't see any more people asking questions. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Secretary of State at Teresa Wargock's Ministry of National Education: Could I...]] Excuse me? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Teresa Wargock: Could I be exempted from participation...]] Yes, thank you very much, Minister. [[Voice from the room: Still a written answer to Senator Rooster's question...]] Oh, yeah. We continue the discussion, the debate... [[Senator Zientarski now.]] I know, I remember, Mr. Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u226	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, of course, will not put forward these arguments in the discussion, which I have already put forward as a representative of the minority of the committee, because it would not actually make sense. I would like to share some of the reflections resulting from this discussion. Well, I agree with many of my previous speakers from Law and Justice, such as Senator Gawl, Senator Żaryn, that there is indeed a problem in the level of teaching, there is a problem in the status of a teacher, in relation to young people to a teacher. And those issues that Professor said were that such a low level were presented by students who, of course, are licenties of poetica, do not know how, from which side of the book to hold... Anyway, it's a low level. But that's not the problem of this bill, it's not completely the problem of this bill, because, Professor, those people who represent this problem are raised in this system of seven-year-olds. Such conclusions could be drawn if we had a distance, if these six-year-olds, so to speak, reached their college period. Then you could actually afford to compare. Therefore, these comparisons are not, I would say, accurate, although, as I say, I agree with the diagnosis that we absolutely need to work on changing the programme, on the problems of returning to vocational education. Absolutely. We can see that there is much to be done here, also in terms of some discipline at school, and I'm going to say, respect for the teacher. That's how we're raised, and it seems like this freedom... Even a certain rigor of these uniforms... I'm absolutely for it. After all, in elite Western schools, as we can see, there are uniforms, there is a certain rigor. And that applies to people who pay dearly for such a school and are elite... Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that times have changed, as was mentioned here. And that's what we need to realize. Children because of the Internet, because of the total television that we didn't have, going to school, are so absorbent, so prepared for these new techniques that they really surprise us often. I have two granddaughters who went to school when they were 6 years old, and that's what happened. And I didn't hear anybody from my parents say they were forced, and now it's time to save them, as they say... Well, not really. I mean, we're not exactly saying... After all, there is European integration, we must function... I'm not saying that we have to be complex, that we don't have to have our way, that we have to, so to speak, be the peacock of Europe. Well, no, but on the other hand, if all Europe except Russia and Finland accepts this system, then I would already consider why we should be so original, negatively original. I'd seriously think about it here. And those arguments that Senator Chróścikowski was talking about, that his daughter was doing well, and his son was worse... I have two twins and another daughter, and that twin daughter is a lawyer, and the twin son is a twin son. They went to school together. He doesn't have a degree. The second daughter, the youngest, has two faculty. That's what it looks like in the family. Well, that's what it looks like in the family, but it has nothing to do with... They went to school together and are twins, not identical... Well, it's not... The point is... On the one hand, he started to convince me in a way of Senator Chróścikowski's argument, maybe his parents aren't as embarrassed as they have any discomfort to advertise their child, so that it doesn't go with all six-year-olds, and maybe to submit to these opinions. psychologists are embarrassing. But we don't have the freedom of parents in this bill, either, because in the case of those who didn't go to the age of five, parents' will is also limited by opinions... [[But on the plus side, on the plus side...]] Well, excuse me, is it comforting, Mr. Senator, to repeat the class? In my opinion, much worse discomfort is repeating the class... [[It doesn't happen very often.]] ...than going a little later. And that's why I'm joining these appeals, because I really think it's just stubbornness and showing that we promised... Mr. Senator Żaryn, there's really no problem with family upbringing, and I absolutely don't accept that argument. The parents, of course, have the right to decide whether the child will go... And that's why I said: you could have improved that bill in such a way as to eliminate the obligation of psychological opinions and leave only the will of parents... Then everything would go according to what I would say, your idea: let us leave the decision to parents. Yeah, but the idea is that this standard for 6 years should, however, be disseminated as a European standard. That's what this is all about. That's why I think, respectfully, once again, the right to raise, to choose religion, etc., etc., it's quite obvious to me... I believe that undoing and not taking into account the real dangers, as the doctors said here, on a living organism is, as it seems, completely, completely pointless. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Vice-Marshal Adam Bielan]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u227	Thank you very much, Senator. Now... [[I've still got the corrections, but I'm not gonna report them, I'm just gonna put them on the record.]] Thank you very much. Senator Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was inspired by Senator Zarin's speech. Later, we had the opportunity to talk about this briefly, but the marshal pointed out that during Senator Szymański's speech, which was interesting, we should not disturb. I think the conclusion of my argument with Senator Żarin would be like this. Senator Żaryn talked about what Senator Zientarski also mentioned, about reducing the level of knowledge of high school graduates who become students. Of course, it can be said that the average is the same, but one must also remember that in relation to the times in which we were studying, it turns out that me and Senator Żaryn were studying exactly the same years. The number of students is many times higher. So there's no way out, the average level of student knowledge has to change, the more that today access to college is much easier than it was in the times we studied. It's hard to be surprised that... it's important to remember that today among students and graduates there are also people absolutely brilliant, brilliant future scientists we know and admire. So that I do not discredit today's Polish education system, because I think that he, although he has his weaknesses We know about them and we talked a lot about them today. It is a system that generally teaches really well, which also shows rankings of our graduates in various, also international, configurations. This does not, of course, mean that the system should not be improved, improved, improved. This is the first case. Second thing. Senator Rooster and other senators were quite critical of social education, led by NGOs, showing that there are various kinds of pathologies in different places. I will absolutely defend many social schools run by NGOs and even by individuals, although especially by NGOs. These NGOs have saved a lot of primary schools, especially in rural areas and small towns, but especially in rural areas. Level of education in these schools Senator Augustine certainly knows this very well, although at the moment he is not listening exactly to what we are saying. They are often, so to speak, a motor of activity in particular local environments. It is good that the Minister has confirmed that social schools run by NGOs will continue to be supported and approved over the coming years. And the third case. I was trying to find out... In the debate, or rather in the context of the questions, we have been informed by the Minister that the problem of financing the local government in connection with this reform that you are pushing from law and justice and trying to convince us to vote for it... Well, there will be financial problems in local governments, because the funding system is a system, so to speak, for one student. The conversion factors are different, of course, but generally the system depends on the number of students at school. So if there are no six-year-olds in the first grade of primary school, then there will be no way out: these measures will have to be smaller, although the Minister assured that they would not. What kind of system will be invented, we'll see. This question will probably be answered by the budget bill that we will be adopting in some time. Today, the Minister could not answer this question, but I hope that this case will be taken into account and that it will not deprive the local authorities of a substantial part of the grants, subsidies for running primary schools. And that's it. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Mr. Senator Rocki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As you can see, Senator Zarin's statement provoked not only me, but Senator Kleina's voice. That's what I'd like to talk to. By the way, Senator Cichoń and Senator Oremski also touched on the subject I want to talk about. In my opinion, it is impossible to link the effects of changes to the Education Act with the quality of education at universities. How many times have I heard about the quality of university education, I feel obliged to say a few sentences about it. Here I will quote the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, our senator... your senator, Professor Bobka, who, some years ago, probably two years ago, as university rector, said I quote: We're shooting each other in the knee. He said this as the rector of the university at the Conference of Rectors of Polish Universities, commenting on the decisions made by the university senates, lowering the criteria for accepting candidates for college. So it was the universities themselves who reduced the quality of education, not the education system that provoked it or some legislation. In a sense, the law of 2005 is to be remembered that it was written under the auspices of President Kwasniewski, then adopted by the parliament, which abolished the compulsory preliminary exams, allowing the use of the results of the new Matura as a basic criterion for recruitment. And actually, all the universities were happy to accept it, because that's what made the academic teachers have a longer vacation. But unfortunately, the quality criteria for the admission of candidates for college, and those associated with high school exams, are not the same as the previous entrance exams. That's why we have worse students. What I also say as an academic teacher, actively observing what is happening in my class. I just know that I have weaker students, and that's because I don't have my entrance exams. Once again, summing up this topic, I'm going to say this is because of what the universities have done, not because of what is in the education system law or at universities, and it concerns academic teachers. I think Senator Cichoń said that... No, it was Senator Obremski who said that the results of 15-year-olds in Poland are good, but the results of twenty-five-year-olds are not extraordinary. In my opinion, there are no such measurements, because, as long as there are standards for measuring the quality of education for 15-year-olds, there are no such standards for twenty-five-year-olds, because the diversification of the teaching offer for higher education institutions is simply so large that one measure cannot be determined. In particular sectors, our graduates are doing quite well, as well as universities, and one of the evidence is that many foreigners study at Polish medical universities and receive an education considered equivalent to the quality of education with education obtained in the United States. And one last thing. Several of you have said that today's discussion is about de facto how many countries... And that was in relation to school age. In my opinion, if we have trust in our parents, then we should endure the duty of school. Thank you very much. And I'd be all for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u231	Thank you very much. Now, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u232	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! Actually, I would like to address the Minister's words, but I see that the Minister has already left. She's just tired. And I understand that. But we... [[We're not...]] We're working on it. So I'm going to refer to the Minister's words about the school's election board. First, let me tell you specifically and remind those who do not remember that two representatives of the Seymists have been removed from the recipe. The Minister referred to it in this way: the voivodship sejmies in their area of competence do not have much education issues, there is only some vocational education there, etc. And yes, it is true that seismics have professional education in their competence, etc., but these are not the only competences of seymists in the field of education. I strongly encourage all the councillors to see how many seismics they do for education in their regions. I know what I'm talking about because I was the president of the Lower Silesian Seymour. But I would like to say that it doesn't matter whether the seismics are involved in education or not, because that's probably not what the legislators were talking about when he introduced the representatives of the Seymists to the competition committee. There are union headquarters, there is a voivode, there are two representatives of the voivodship, two representatives of the ministers, and I think someone thought that there should be a representative of local governments, i.e. parents from the area at the same time. There's no other way. There is no other way to ask the public in a given area of opinion than to ask the people for whom this constituency is appropriate. And the minister comes, asks us what I understand, because we're going to vote. In the same way, representatives of the Sejm are asked for their views on the election of the curator. In each voivodship sejm there is a committee that deals with education and higher education. There are competent people there and I think it's worth asking them, especially because they represent a very broad electoral level. The leader of the list often votes more people than the leader in the Seym, such situations happen. So it is a very high representativeness, and such representatives are assigned to such a committee by the entire Seymist or the appointed board of education. I made the amendment here. I'd like to ask This amendment concerns Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 For addition and addition of point 4 of the introductory provision concerning two representatives of the relevant sejm of the voivodship. I do not know why you were disturbed by this statement, why the representatives of the local government were disturbing this committee, and I do not understand it at all. We have some strange government representation here, and we have not only two representatives of the ministry, but also two other representatives of the voivodeship, which is a government representative in the field, so we have a strong over-representation here. I think... Why am I only talking about this one thing? There's been a lot of arguments today, some very strange. For example, some senators referred to values that will be respected in kindergarten and cannot be respected at school, for example. I don't understand why at all. There's been a reference to the fact that we're gonna be... I've even heard something like that. I don't know if I've misheard. We will be precursors in Europe if we return to seven-year-olds again. It's true. In a moment, we'll be precursors in the world. I remember when I started going to elementary school. I'm afraid it's been a long time. It was the same system as it is now being introduced. And I had a choice either to go to school as a six-year-old or... I don't want to tell you about it because it was a really long time ago, but in that time the world changed a lot, the kids changed a lot, the young people changed a lot. And that's what I'm paying attention to. But I think all these arguments are going to be in vain, because you're accepting everything without any adjustments, which will surprise me. You have no doubts, and I'm still gonna be surprised. You don't report any of your ideas to any law. It's a shame, gentlemen, because you're sitting in the Senate, you should think about it, you should comment, I'm sure you're able to bring something meaningful to the various projects. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I can't hear you, I'm talking, so I can't hear you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making this amendment. I don't think we're going to give up on some normal... argument that's really going to get to the point, and it's not going to be as illogical, as bizarre as some of the arguments put forward by you. At least don't insult our intelligence, because when it comes to some arguments, it's really embarrassing that the senators are using them. Please tell me that you simply want to do this because it is a small cost of reform. You're doing it on your knees, you're bringing it in very quickly. You will fulfill one of your electoral promises and there will not be as much money as your second promise, or 500 PLN per child. And by the way, I don't know why. The state of these curators will be organized in your own way, because unfortunately it becomes the norm for the general exchange of personnel across the country. So that I fold... [[Eight years ago, it was the same.]] Sir, I don't know what happened eight years ago, I wasn't in the Senate. I was working on the city council at the time, and I have nothing to be ashamed of about that job at the time. [[In order to speak, you need to know.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u233	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator Pekkis... [[Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] A formal conclusion? I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u234	Thank you. Mr. Marshal, based on the article. I'd like to ask you for a recess by 9:00 tomorrow. It's been exactly eight hours of debate, we're sitting in a windowless room with artificial air conditioning. [[But there are handles.]] Most senators leave this room anyway, come in, deal with other things often. 8 hours is also some standard that we should follow. If you have a little respect for all of us on December 30th, I would ask you to postpone until 9 a.m. tomorrow. It's not like six-year-olds or seven-year-olds are waiting today, their parents are waiting for our decision to run into school tomorrow. Nor is it a strategic law in terms of national security or other such matters. And I ask the marshal to put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u235	Is there an objection?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u236	Yes, I object. There has never been such a custom and there is no provision in the Rules of Procedure that we are to sit for 8 hours. You're right the senator noticed there are no windows. But there are doorknobs and senators organize this time so that they can participate as best as possible in these deliberations and implement the adopted agenda. That's why I object. [[There's also a bhp recipe that is mandatory, which is also created here...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, as far as bhp regulations are concerned, we've got a fire extinguisher so that everything's secure. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u237	Thank you. I'm calling a five-minute recess until 10:00 p.m. We will be voting on Senator Dowhan's motion. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 05 to 22 minutes 10]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the vote on Senator Dowhan's request for an adjournment by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow. Yes, Senator? Did I remember correctly? [[Yes.]] Who's in favor of Senator Dowhan's request? Who's against it? Who's... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, we are voting. Who's holding back? Please report the results. 2 senators voted in favour, 49 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Senator Dowhan's motion was not accepted. [[Applause]] Let's get back to work. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Pekkis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u238	I'll be very brief. Listening to you for 8 hours, I wonder where you've been for at least 6 years, because the situation in which local governments are currently carrying out primary school education is some kind of disaster. I spent the last few years in the local government. Let me give you an example. Kędzierzyn-Koźle commune, the total budget is 248 million. Subsidy plus 129% transferred from the municipality gives an amount of 79 million for education, i.e. 32% the entire budget of the municipality. Where were you that you led to a situation in which 129% must be added to the subsidies in order to be able to carry out the basic obligation of training children? It's one thing. Second case, very important, unraveled. Why is this change so important with regard to the curator and his role in the transfer of the primary school and the school's liquidation? In Kędzierzyn-Koźl, in the rural estate, in Rogów the school was liquidated with the intention of transferring it to the German minority. At the time, the school curator protested that it would be unfavorable for this environment. This protest, the opposition, did not bring any reaction, because the voivodeship did not stop it. This school was handed over to the German Association, which, as soon as they took up education, warned that the parents of all children were to write a declaration of identity for the German children attending the school. That was the basis for having kids at school. Three parents broke out, and for a month the children were not included in the class log. Any attempt to intervene with your then voivode from this side of the room and with the parole officer who was very sorry, but couldn't do anything, didn't do anything. The situation is that this is because of the rights that you have established, the grant, the subsidy for the so-called. minority schools paid by the Polish State are more than allocated to similar schools run in the same city for Poles. That's one thing. Children whose parents do not declare German origin and identity are not admitted to schools run by the minority. This country, it is Poland that pays for such situations that during national holidays the German anthem is played. It is not the past, it is not the 18th, 19th century, it is the year 2015, Kędzierzyn-Koźle, Opoleszczyzna. This is one of those pathologies that wouldn't have been if the curator, giving a clear negative opinion, had a decisive vote at the moment. He didn't have that voice. That school was banned from law school. After years of erring in legal nuances there was such a situation that the voivode simply said that he did not know how to treat this school, whether it is, or not it is, and consequently as so-called. the agreement of the parties a few months before the elections, so that, by chance, after the change of power, we would not be able to change the situation, it was re-empted, and again unlawfully, because there were no legal procedures to enable it to be re-empted. Is this a success? That wouldn't have been the case if the probation officer, who had an impact on the substantive assessment of the situation, had blocked it. It did not block, the situation is very complicated, Poland maintains... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's not that it's hostile, but it's basically not meant for Polish children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u239	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kopiczko, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I wasn't supposed to perform, but with so many voices Because today everyone is professionals in every field, lawyers, doctors, I am very happy about it.I decided to thank the Ministry very much for the legislation that was put in place so quickly, which will enable schools to prepare themselves. Three years ago, no one wondered how we as schools would prepare ourselves, whether we had prepared classrooms or whether we had teachers and parents prepared for this process. And at the moment, the Ministry has leaned over this problem, and thank you very much for that. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also very pleased that the Minister spoke today about an individual approach to the child. I think that's the most important thing. I even checked myself out when I was doing my research... I want to tell Senator Robert Dowhan about this research because he asked several times today about the research, said he had a 6-year-old child, and who did the research... By October 25, I was the principal of the largest school in Ełk, in which there are 7 first classes. Studies among teachers show that a six-year-old can't focus his attention, often having learning difficulties, even in self-service activities. Six-year-olds are tired of homework, schoolwork, which leads to feelings of sadness, crying, dissatisfaction, fatigue, as a result of school disappointment and perhaps learning, sometimes it can also lead to school phobia. These children are characterized by a constant desire to play, a huge need for movement. Unfortunately, the teacher sometimes, because he has 25 6-year-olds in his class, is unable to go out in the yard, because there is only one, there is no babysitter, just like in preschool wards. These are studies conducted among teachers and parents. In addition, these children are emotionally immature, which means they cannot cope with their own emotions, their desires. A 7-year-old child can already look at things from a distance and already understand some standards and principles. So that, ladies and gentlemen, an individual approach is the basis. In addition, there are other factors involved: whether the child was born in the first, second, third or fourth quarter of a given year, because this is very important. It's a very big leap. I'm gonna answer to the senator who said his baby was born in January, and he asked if he could study. I think there's a big difference between a baby born in January and a baby born in December, but that's something you have to approach individually. You need to see what the school environment is like, if the school is prepared, if it has a ready room, if there is an appropriate playroom, a school lounge, if there is a possibility of care by 3 p.m., if there is a suitable school cafeteria. These are the school factors. Then you have to look at social factors: whether the child has been in kindergarten since the third year of age This is very important; whether he has participated in various activities developing his interest; finally, for example: How much money from the household budget is spent on the development of interests, trips, trips... Mr. Robert says he's leaving with his kid, and that's very good, but not all the environments and not all the parents can afford... I think that thanks to the fact that we will give 500 PLN per child, more parents will be able to afford to go to the cinema with the child, to the theatre, because it is the dissemination of culture and it also affects the development of the child. So these are the social factors. I have already talked about the school environment, but the family environment is still very important. Whether the child is full or incomplete, whether there is one child in the family, or if there are many siblings, which is a child in the family. These are also very important factors. And besides, the baby's condition. There could be a sick child after a disease. His emotional maturity, which is what I said... But all of this is able to judge the parent, of course the teacher, the principal, the teacher as much as possible, but above all the parent. Ladies and gentlemen, one more problem: speech counselors in schools, no speech counselors in schools. Do you know that 6-year-olds have very big problems with pronunciation, have pronunciation defects, often lisp? This leads to problems with reading, and consequently with writing. It's so short, because I could talk about it for a long time here. I just want to say thank you very much here. 'Cause I see the minister's in the O.R. Once again for the fact that this bill is that we can prepare for all of this. For your part, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, to vote for this very good bill, for the fact that the parent will have the right to decide whether his child will go to school at the age of 6 years, this is an individual approach, taking into account the factors I was talking about. Or at the age of 7. My parents could always decide, and now they can too. It's the parent that's most important. And for us, it's the most important child. Not like one of the senators said. I've written it down here... I think Senator Rulewski said that this is to be decided by the European majority. I can't imagine it. I'm very happy that my parents decide. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u241	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u242	I know you only want to limit my speech to a minute, but I have 10 minutes, and then five minutes. [[Voice from the room: It's been 30 seconds.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I, too, would like to thank the Minister for being with us, listening, despite the late hours, to the fact that you answered the questions very extensively and factually. Even if we didn't agree with your answers, we did. I'd like to say this, and I appreciate your commitment. This is an extremely important bill. We are focused on several other laws, but these few other laws in the situation of new elections, as a result of which the PiS will lose power, will be quite easy to change, although of course... [[Applause]] [[Don't scare the marshal. At least two terms...]] That's what... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] [[Voice from the room: The first generation...]] [[From the first...]] That's what... Mr. Marshal... Sorry, Senator Dobrzyński, as always, is trying to direct me. [[With a sense of humor, Mr. Marshal...]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[You're welcome.]] And I'd like to ask your marshal to give me the opportunity to make this speech. This is a very important bill, because unfortunately this law cannot be easily changed. I mean, she will, I'd say, have worked for many, many years. This is a law that changes the rules introduced three years ago, and discussed eight years ago, whether six-year-olds or seven-year-olds should be subject to a school obligation. This is a question and psychology, and early adolescence of children. It's not just a contractual matter, although you can say it's a contractual matter, and of course it's possible to discuss whether or not eight-year-olds... those eight-pounds are easier to wear on their back than six. - or a seven-year-old. So such an argument can also be used. This is a law that changes the school system for years, and we should be aware of that. Whether it will function as the PiS believes, i.e. it will improve the level of education of young people, education of children, adaptation to the requirements of the new situation today. Well, first of all, I don't think that's a false assumption. We shorten the period of study, the preparation for this group of children, who for various reasons, mostly social, are behind schedule, have some problems. The senator was just talking about speechpeds and speechpedic problems. After all, the earlier the problem of speech therapy will be dealt with, the greater the possibilities of getting out of this situation. And it's clear to me: if he takes care of a child at the age of six or maybe five, it'll be easier to make things right than if he takes care of a year or two later. It's clear. It's just clear. So from the point of view of the functioning of this change, this reform introduced by the Platform is a step backwards, a step backwards. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, a certain historical reflection. Six - year - olds went to school more than a hundred years ago in the Prussian envoy, in the Austrian envoy. Seven-year-olds walked in the Russian partition. I am not saying that these are the patterns on which you are based, but I would like to give a signal because the report has different accents. So we should realize that over a hundred years ago only Polish children went to school in Russia at the age of 7. And that's where I'd end up, even though we could talk about this bill for a long, long time... I know the PiS senators aren't tired... [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] ...absolutely. They voted against the break, so I could talk for a long, long time, but I feel sorry for all the senators, not only the Senators of the Platform, but also the PiS, so I'm done. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you for your understanding.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, seven-year-olds went to school for seven years of Platform rule. Senator Gazweda.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to strongly protest. Well, Senator Dowhan, who makes such a persistent motion, doesn't pay attention to the fact that when he makes this request, there are over 30 senators present in the courtroom... [[Two.]] Two, two. I would simply like to stress that this really brings down the standards of the High House. We're discussing very serious issues... I would like to say that all you have to do is listen and read with understanding. The teachers in this room will say which class is the primary school, or third or fourth. It's really enough to listen with understanding, and it's enough to listen to your senators. Nobody else but the senator. The Klich said we're fundamentally different. Your attitude is that you want to decide for your parents, and we say no, let the parent decide. We have promised this, we have been talking about this for six years, and today is the end of this public, social discussion, in every way. If you do not hear this, hear the voice of those who have signed over a million signatures under this law in protest. Today it was rejected, thrown in the trash. I really want to stress that the High House should approach this with great sense. Since we are discussing such an important subject, please count your ranks when submitting your application. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bear.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u246	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have decided to take the floor in the discussion because I would like to make an amendment to this law. And the aim of this amendment is that, as senators, as Senate, and especially the Senators of Law and Justice, the ruling option, we can all have a calm conscience that we do not lower the powers of people who decide on important matters. Well, you're suggesting that a candidate for education doesn't have to have a practice in managing education. Well, ladies and gentlemen, any school principal, in order to be a principal, must have completed postgraduate studies in the field of education management. The design, which is in the still existing law, guarantees that also the school curator, who had to act as principal or vice principal of the school, will have such competence, i.e. he will have completed these studies. If we withdraw this condition, then theoretically we will be able to put someone in the position of probation officer who has no clue about management in education. Because we don't give any guarantees that a person knows how to manage education. If someone ran the school and had completed the studies mentioned above, you could hope that he would also prove himself as a probation officer. If we withdraw this condition, it will make such a sad impression, as if 16 people who meet it could not be found in Poland. Well, I guess we can find in Poland sixteen people who have completed their studies in management in education and for several years have performed, so to speak, physically as principal or vice principal of the school. If a person was a high school principal, for example, he knows how to organize his high school exams, how to do it. And if, in the position referred to here, we put up a person who has never done anything like this, then we can assume that such a person will not take up his duties in substance. So I propose to increase the scope of the probation officer's powers, as provided for in the Act, but not to reduce, nor to reduce, his powers. It follows from this that my amendment should be made in Article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 add point 4, which provides that a candidate shall be required to be in a post requiring pedagogical supervision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u247	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Ryszka made his speech in the minutes. [[He's the only one who's smart.]] I would also like to inform you that ten senators have submitted legislative proposals in writing. These are Senator Zientarski, Senator Zdrojewska, Senator Biesiołek, Senator Dowhan, Senator Rulewski, Senator Rotnicka, Senator Wach, Senator Terminski, Senator Vistula and Senator Cichoń. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[What about the economics committee?]] [[The Committee on Economic Affairs will have a meeting later.]] The Committee on Economics is not now gathering, but these two. We proceed with the second agenda: the Tax Act on certain financial institutions. The text of the Act is contained in print No 62 and the report of the Commission In print No 62 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present a report to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance on the case adopted by the Sejm on 29 December of the Act on Tax on Certain Financial Institutions. The report is printed... bearing number 62 A. The Commission held a meeting today. During that meeting, she had the opinion prepared by the Legislative Bureau. She has consulted experts, representatives of chambers of commerce and industry for the financial market of the Polish Insurance Association, the Union of Polish Banks, the Conference of Financial Enterprises, etc., and very many current experts, including representatives of the National Bank of Poland, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. She was very closely acquainted with the bill presented by the Sejm. The Commission recommends that the high Senate adopt a law without amendments. At the same time, I would like to inform, as it were, beyond the role of the Senator of the Committee, that I would like to make a number of amendments during the debate. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u249	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see... Oh, there's a call, of course. Senator Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u250	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Why are there 4 billion, not 3 billion, 2 billion or 1 billion? And who from this group of institutions we know National banks, branches of foreign banks, branches of credit institutions, cooperative credit savings banks, national insurance and reinsurance undertakings, national insurance undertakings It's slowing down here, skipping out? Can the rapporteur point that out? That's my first question. Why is there even a line? And why is this stake, the one that I know the most about the countries of the European Union? Why is it so big, and why do we start with it?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u251	Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u252	Thank you very much. This rate is almost identical to that in Austria, for example. It was set at EUR 1 billion there. So we have about the same level and this does not fundamentally deviate from those ceilings that have been adopted in several European Union countries, where such a tax has been in force for many years. It is worth remembering here that we are very late when it comes to introducing this tax. We are here joining the developed countries of the European Union, which have been applying such a tax to banks and other financial institutions since at least 2011. Who's it slowing down, who's missing out on? It certainly releases the whole cooperative banking sector in its entirety. The assets of cooperative banks will not be subject to this tax and this concerns 100% this sector, the whole cooperative banking sector. There is a release of a number of commercial banks with assets of less than PLN 4 billion. Unfortunately, I did not take with me from the seat of the board of tables, so I am not able to serve the exact names at the moment, but it is widely available on the Internet, it is easy to check which commercial banks do not have a balance sheet total higher than PLN 4 billion. In the case of cooperative savings and credit banks, this ceiling of PLN 4 billion slows down about 43% the assets of the sector. 57% The assets of the cooperative credit and savings banks sector will be taxed. Who's the bill skipping? This law omits the association of investment funds. They're not covered by this tax. They also skip franchising companies. Other financial institutions are subject to this tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u253	Thank you. Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u254	I'll just make sure. Because you said the whole cooperative bank sector would not be subject to tax. But some of them are in cooperative banking groups. I understand that the size of these assets will count for each bank. Or for the whole group? That's the first question. And then there's the second question. The largest profits in the financial sector are made by parabanks which show a very low level of assets. Will they be subject to the tax, but will I be left out and continue to offer the moments, earn a fortune and not pay this tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u255	I'm answering. In the case of parabanks, a very low ceiling was set: PLN 200 million. So most of these loan companies, which are so aggressively advertising on television, which are aggressively knocking on the door of the citizens of the Republic, will be subject to this tax. So that 200 million PLN is a very low set ceiling. I think only local financial sharks will swim below it, don't you? Second question... [[A cooperative group...]] A cooperative group. The bill provides for a countdown... In the case of an association bank... We have two cooperative banks. The first one is the Bank of Polish Cooperatives. He's the biggest association bank. This bank will benefit from the tax exemption under the recovery plan in which it is located. This law excludes those institutions which are included in the recovery plan, so as not to hinder the recovery of capital and to make it impossible for the Polish State to otherwise support these banks. So this bank, which has a very bad balance sheet situation, has suffered losses in recent years. This is available to the public, reports are available on their websites The amount of PLN 150 million per year and is included in the repair programme by 2019 will not be paid or paid. Another bank, cooperative business bank... I hope I didn't twist the name... [[Cooperative Bank Group.]] Yeah, SGB, that's the bank we're talking about. This bank isn't in the recovery plan, at least to my knowledge, I don't have that kind of information. Besides, he's generating profits. I've seen the last of their reports, and they say it's a bank that doesn't have any losses. This bank will benefit, as submitted by the Sejm, from the possibility of deduction from the tax base of assets transferred by cooperative banks. This means that in the case of this bank about 86% the assets will not be subject to this tax. So only those assets that come from outside the group, from outside the cooperative banks, from their own business... Because the bank, if I remember correctly, owns its own branches and builds assets from outside a group of cooperative banks. And only in this part would he be taxed if those amounts were above 4 billion if they exceeded 4 billion. So I think... All the barter banks, the cooperative ones, the local ones won't pay the tax. They do not exceed those 4 billion balance sheet total. In the case of an association bank... There's a mechanism in the seymous submission that will probably make them pay nothing. Thus, it could be said that cooperative banks are the largest beneficiary of this law. But that's a good thing, because the recommendations from all those who consciously think about the construction of the financial sector, starting with the recommendations made by the G20 through the World Bank and other organisations... They say that the financial sector's assets should be distributed as widely as possible in different financial institutions so that there is no concentration of assets in large banks, large institutions that are then too big to fall, and therefore pose a huge threat to the countries in which they are located. We saw this on Iceland's example. Right? Iceland is the most striking example of this phenomenon. Thus, the fact that cooperative banks, local banks, in some sense, will benefit from this law, is in line with the philosophy that should guide an informed legislator shaping the financial market. This is also fully in line with the recommendations of the various international organisations.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u256	Thank you. Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u257	Senator, there are a lot of voices in the discussion that, after the introduction of this tax, banks or other financial institutions will raise the cost of their products, and this will later fall on the citizens who will have to pay it. The cost on their side will be higher. Do you agree with this statement?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u258	No, I completely disagree. That's not what the evidence says. Here, first of all, I would refer to a recently published report which analysed the situation of banks in the countries of Central Europe. This is a report prepared by Deloitte, which does not show the link between the introduction of this tax and the rise in the prices of banking services in the countries of our region. We are talking about Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary. These price increases that occurred in these countries and which are attributed to mistaxation resulted from the corrective programmes carried out in some of the banks in these countries, and in fact were the consequence of the previous inappropriate credit policy and the necessity, in short, of blocking the balance sheets. This is such a logical error in terms of market efficiency, which unfortunately benefit, as I have seen, bank lobbyists in order not to allow this tax to be passed or to fight as low as possible taxation, as we understand. Today, at the meeting of the finance committee, we heard that if the Polish state took some of the profits from the banks, these banks would not be able to lend the Polish economy so well. But the owners of these banks didn't get much more money from these banks long ago, they did all the... Well? Did it have any effect on the credit, the lobbyists in the bank crying about the fact that bank owners are taking much more money? After all, we are talking about taxation of the banking sector, which will amount to just over 4 billion at the committee meeting, Minister, so you said, am I testifying correctly? Compared to the 15, 16 billion profits made by the banks in recent years, the profits made by their owners are only a fraction of this profit. So scaring us that it will weaken the credit action, because banks will pay this tax and share with the Polish country part of the excellent profit achieved in Poland, is one of such lobbyist fairy tales, so I would call it. If we're talking about market efficiency, whether the banks are going to raise the price of services, because there's going to be a tax, then I'm going to say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, rational entrepreneurs And we certainly have managers at the banks. They take as much as they can get for their services. Thus, the prices which are, are market prices, are those which result from the ability to sell these services, from the demand that is possible. If someone claims that after tax banks will raise the prices of their services, he makes a logical mistake and does not take into account the issue of market efficiency, which banks are guided by their actions. In addition, large commercial banks will also have to face competition from smaller local entities, which are, as I said earlier, beneficiaries of this law, to a large extent beneficiaries of this law. But here, please write this beneficiary in quotes. We are not talking about any public aid here, we are talking about the correct structure of taxation. These large rich banks should bear the burden of this tax, it is absolutely in line with the philosophy of a certain responsibility. When in 2010 the leaders of the G20 countries talked about introducing this tax, they said... The International Monetary Fund has even issued a report under a very significant title "Just and meaningful provision of the financial sector." There were three proposals, how a fair and substantial financial sector could provide for the State in which it is located; and this was: taxing the assets or liabilities of banks, introducing a tax on the remuneration of managers or introducing a tax on financial transactions. The Polish State has decided to introduce asset taxation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u259	Thank you, Senator. If you don't mind, we'll group up the questions, three at a time. Senator Florek.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u260	Mr. Senator, this is a new tax, so the purpose of this new tax is to obtain additional sources of financing for budgetary expenditure, including the 500+ programme. But I wouldn't worry about the banks here, I wouldn't worry about the corporations, because they can handle it. I'm talking about possible side effects. You just said that when it comes to lending, you don't see here... that the banks will possibly raise the funding... But, in your opinion, will there be no side-effects of the introduction of a bank tax, and if there are any consequences, what will it be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u261	Mr. Senator Tight.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u262	Mr. Senator, have you analysed the Hungarian case where a similar tax was introduced in 2010 to the one that is now being proposed? After a wave of criticism to the government that this tax destroys the financial sector and indirectly the Hungarian economy, today Hungary withdraws from this tax and will gradually reduce it until 2019, stating de facto that the wave of criticism was correct. And second question. I'm not quite sure, but I think this tax will also include insurance companies that operate in the car insurance market. It is estimated that... are there such votes from experts that car insurance will increase significantly as a result of the introduction of this tax? It's not gonna be a cost that only rich families will touch. Today, there are about 20 million cars in Poland, so almost every family will be affected by this tax. Have you analysed the scale of this phenomenon and the costs that each family will have to bear? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u263	Thank you. And Mr. Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u264	Mr. Senator, in connection with this bill, I am interested in the possibility and extent of a phenomenon in the financial markets, which I think could be determined... Isn't there a threat that financial institutions operating in Poland for foreign institutions will hold their credit shares back as part of their cross-border credit activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u265	Thank you. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u266	Thank you very much. Starting with the first question... What could be the other effects of this tax? I was talking about the fact that this tax kind of shapes the market. He's gonna accelerate... help develop smaller institutions that have less than four billion. That's right, they'll be more competitive, that's what it's all about. I understand that he is pursuing the purpose of state policy... Through this tax, the State becomes active, actively shaping or expressing its policy towards the financial market. That's the first thing. Second thing. Such an additional effect of this tax, I think, is very beneficial in a certain perspective. I'd really like to see that effect happen. It may be a bank's search for opportunities to finance the economy outside its balance sheets so that this tax is not severe. How? Well, in such a way that banks will support, organize e.g. issues of corporate bonds, i.e. they will actually provide, in quotes, loans to the economy or funds for financing the economy, but these bonds will not be in the balance sheet of banks. It'll just be an organized issue and the bank will take its commission. That's the right thing to do. I will remind you that Poland is a country that has very little developed this corporate bond market, too small. After all, in Anglo-Saxon countries the economy is financed mainly through the capital market, bonds and shares. With us is this credit, which is the main source of financing for the economy So if this tax makes us a mandatory market, it will be for the benefit of the economy. Enough to mention the effects that I see and which seem to me to be the most important... As regards the question about Hungary, the fact that Hungary is withdrawing is an absolutely unlawful claim. The Hungarians reduced the rate from 0.5 to 0.3. If this is retreating, then... It's a reduction, but what's it related to? It is related to the restoration of the balance sheet situation of these banks. The Hungarian banks were in very bad shape. Moreover, they also incurred the costs of their franc credit policy. These problems are already going away, and the State is therefore changing its tax rate in terms of policy on the financial market. Please note that for other countries in our region, Slovakia, Slovenia, the introduction of this tax did not have a significant impact on the profitability of these banks. In Poland, the profitability of the banks of Slovenia, Slovakia is around 6 , yeah. In Poland, the growth of bank profits in subsequent years This is in this report, which I quoted to you. The Deloitte experts predict a level of 7 and 9%. They anticipate such increases in profits. So we are not talking about a sector that does not generate profits, which is not profitable, we are talking about a sector that generates excellent profits and which has great prospects in Poland. So the crying we heard is threatening bank lobbyists with some kind of catastrophe for the Polish economy is completely illegal and I am convinced that nothing like this will happen. Soon they will adapt to this tax, it will be a natural, normal phenomenon. Besides, I think they're already preparing for this by making plans. Is there a risk that foreign institutions will take over lending to Polish entrepreneurs? Do you think, for example? German banks or French banks or Dutch banks? Ladies and gentlemen, there is a bank tax in all these countries, yes, there is a bank tax in all these countries. If someone thinks that because of the introduction of banking tax in Poland there will suddenly be more loans directly from Germany or directly from France, then To be economical in words I don't think that's gonna happen. After all, these are countries where this tax has long been in place. I'll try to give you the data. Wait, I'm looking, I'm looking... This tax has been introduced since 2010. I'm sorry, I can't find my memo to tell you what country he came to, but in the major countries of the European Union this tax has been for years, everyone lives with him and somehow nothing like what the bank lobbyists have warned us about. What? Has the loan dried up in Germany? Has the loan dried up in France? Or did the bank services go out there and the Germans and the French are going out on the street to fight for cheaper banking services? Transport insurance. This is a very competitive market, there is very high competition in the motor insurance group, so that I do not think that the introduction of this tax will affect price increases. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Grzegorz Czelej]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u267	Senator Grodzki wants to ask you a question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Mr Senator, rapporteur! Unfortunately, I do not share this optimism even in the issue of motor insurance, because insurance companies, in anticipation of the introduction of this law, have already raised prices, and I will remind you that the OC is mandatory and the owner of the panda Fiat, opel astra has no choice. There are a lot of voters coming to me and telling me about the price increases of the OC, I'm not talking about the AC, it's about 50.70%. For such ordinary cars. So that maybe after we pass this bill Or rather, if you approve it, because we are against it, these prices will not increase. But they've gone up now that people make OC deals. That's why I have a second question... although that was more of a statement. Please explain to me, Mr. Senator, why the procedure for proceeding over this law is once again nothing to do with the provisions of the Senate Rules of Procedure, which in the article. Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 says that the committee has 18 days for ordinary laws, 14 days for urgent laws, and we should receive the documents 3 days before the meeting. In turn, here we did not really receive them at all, except for the committee report. Is that something... [[Mr. Senator, we're asking questions about what takes a minute.]] The question is: why do we proceed without following the Senate's Rules of Procedure again?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u269	Another question, Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u270	I have a question for the rapporteur. You were talking about bank lobbyists, you were talking about it, but I don't think any of us are dating bank lobbyists. But I would also like to ask: have you considered whether you are here in conflict of interest because of the activities you are conducting and because of what you do? We are considering today a law which provides for different types of thresholds, and during the proceedings amendments may also be made, which may also apply to - I do not know - I do not prejudice on this. The business you're running. So I'd like to ask you if you've thought about it. Or maybe the committee talked about it.? And on this occasion, I would like to ask whether the Senate has any rules on conflict of interest in the case of senators at all. Because many parliaments in the world have such regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u271	Please, Mr. Senator, answer this.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u272	I'll start with this conflict of interest. You probably don't mind that in the Sejm, the vice-president of the Committee on Public Finances, and in the previous term the chairman of this committee is and was a former club colleague, Krystyna Skowrońska, who is the President of the cooperative bank in Przecław, and for many years was also the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bank of Poland Cooperatives. You probably don't mind the fact that for many years as a member of the Supervisory Board of Bank Millennium was one of the senators of Senator Rocki, who ceased to be a member of this Supervisory Board of Bank Millennium probably in June this year. So ask... I think I can handle this issue of conflict of interest as well as your colleagues. That's the first one. In addition, I would like to say that this matter was once a topic of conversation, as well as correspondence with the Marshal of the Sejm, who pointed out that senators or Members who have such an education or professional experience are simply very useful in such discussions, because they know what they are talking about. At the same time, it does not affect the attitude of these senators or Members in any way, so it does not constitute a charge. on their credibility and integrity in dealing with public affairs. If you use your reasoning, it's Senator Rooster. Unfortunately, he's not here, but maybe he's listening to us. Senator Czelej couldn't handle medical matters, he'd have to shut down, etc., etc. The Senators have also performed here... 'Cause everybody's been working somewhere, yeah, everybody's working somewhere. [[Applause]] [[According to the order of applications...]] Now I'd like to. I'm sorry, because I didn't answer... [[I'd like to defend Senator Rooster.]] Excuse me? [[I'd like to speak for Senator Rooster.]] [[There you go...]] I haven't finished yet... I still owe him an answer to a question about the market, competition and price formation. It is worth noting that in the area of motor insurance the main player on the market is PZU. An important player in the banking services market is PKO. So I think there are tools to shape this market. Moreover, when I met with representatives of the Polish Insurance Association, I also heard from them the fear that it was these large entities, such as. PZU, they can now begin to significantly influence whether to use the situation created by this law to increase their share in the insurance market, because they are large and are able to easily lift the burden of this tax. So I keep my optimism.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u273	Senator à speaking of your question, yes? [[Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u274	Excuse me, I have the right to speak at this point. Your question. Mr. Senator, you didn't understand my question at all. I didn't accuse you of anything at all. I'm actually... [[What do you mean, no?]] Right. I want you to listen to the video. I asked you exactly if you or the committee were considering a conflict of interest in your case. I didn't get an answer to that question. [[No.]] I'd love to hear it. And the second question I asked is whether they're in the Senate. 'Cause I didn't find it in the papers, and I'm in the Senate for the first time. Some rules governing conflict of interest in the Senate. That's all I asked. And please answer my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u275	I answer precisely: in this term or in the previous term no one asked me about a conflict of interest and did not consider my conflict of interest. [[You haven't considered it either?]] I didn't consider it either, because it doesn't occur. Please refer to the Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator. I think it's all well explained there.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u276	I'd like to ask you a question, Senator Rotnicka. Let me remind you of the minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u277	I try never to stall my questions or statements, Mr. Marshal. I have the following question. I am familiar with the opinion of our Legislative Office, and at some moments these comments seem very valid to me. I would like to ask if the committee considered these comments and did it agree with them. That's the first question. The second is just a remark that institutions that will be subject to this tax, but are somehow preparing for it, for example. Polish bank PKO BP is already talking about the release of 300 and 600 people after the introduction of this tax.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u278	Two questions, so why don't you...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u279	You're welcome. I think the exemptions in PKO BP, which the management of this bank reported, are not related to this tax. They're due to other reasons. So that you do not combine this, they do not arise from this tax. Sometimes there are illusions. Maybe I'll let you in late. [[It's a coincidence, isn't it?]] Yes. Let me make a joke, an anecdote late in the morning, and maybe you'll excuse me if the mood is inadequate. On one island in Polynesia, locals once developed a Cargo cult. Cargo's cult was connected with the fact that they saw that Shell's employees, who were looking for oil there, received deliveries by plane, which came and provided them with food and various excellent good things. So they built their airport out of wood next to it, and they prayed, and they expected that plane to land there. So very often you can draw wrong conclusions or have wrong expectations, observing the phenomena that occur in the world around us. That's all I wanted to say about what's coming out of it. I mean, it doesn't always come out... Fires at the PKO bank certainly cannot be combined with this tax. Second question... [[On these amendments tabled.]] About these amendments. The opinion of the Legislative Bureau was analysed in detail and the Minister also had the opportunity to refer to the individual amendments made by the Legislative Office. During the debate, I will be making amendments They, I think, are fully consuming the conclusions that were made at the committee meeting. This was not included in the report due to the time necessary for... the benefit that emerged from the debate on six-year-olds is that there was time to prepare the amendments well.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u280	Thank you very much. Senator Dowhan, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u281	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. After listening to this joke, Mr Strasburger feels threatened, Mr Senator rapporteur. But there's something I want to ask you. You're a great banker. Congratulations, it's really valuable. I don't envy you here, and if I envy you, it's so positive. Tell me, isn't this a little misready? Or is it not poorly constructed that this tax affects one and the other not that it violates the principle of equal competition? As, I don't know, the creator, owner, co-owner or former owner of the SKOKs is relieved of this today, and your competition No, no, no, no, Is it fair to introduce this tax for some and not for others? [[It's a very easy question, I answer...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u282	You're welcome. [[Cooperative banks are released.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u283	I'm answering. Cooperative banks are released. Cooperative money, in which I am socially the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Kasa Stefczyk It has more than 7 billion in assets, and these measures represent 57% the assets of the sector will be subject to this tax. I think I'm fully answering your question here. So the benefit... I heard in the Seym that it was made for the SKOKs. No, 57% SKOK sector assets will be taxed and 100% The assets of the cooperative bank sector will not be subject to this tax. I'm really happy for you because... [[Voice from the room: What are you doing jumping here?]] ...because Stefczyk's money can handle this tax. [[The voice from the gym: Are you sleepless or something?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[But please be quiet.]] Stefczyk's money can handle that tax. This is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I've got it under control.]] This tax is well-scaled. It's well-scaled. [[I wanna hear it because it's very nice to hear it.]] This tax is very good... [[And I value these answers very much...]] Thank you, too. Senator Dowhan gives me an opportunity to answer some myths. Although mostly Mr. Petru had such stories that it would be for the SKOKs. I honestly admit I didn't hear it from the Platform politicians, it was Mr. Petru. Yeah, but what an economist, such conclusions, I'd say. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u284	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska called in. Or with the next question, is this a reply to the previous one? [[No, no. I already asked you a question, and I got an answer.]] I'm trying to keep an eye on the order of applications. So now Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u285	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I am now just, so complementary to the previous question, because it was quite important, I would like to ask you how many SKOKs have so far been included in the recovery plan or recovery plan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u286	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u287	That's not what the committee was doing, and that doesn't apply to this tax... [[But you answer so nicely...]] To tell you the truth, I stopped being president of the National Cashier, head office in 2012, and I don't have any current information. The information about how many cash registers has a repair programme, etc., is reserved information, although to my surprise I have heard many times the various numbers given by the current head of financial market supervision, which was very surprising because he did not do so, for example, in relation to the cooperative banking sector or mentioned by the name of commercial banks, large commercial banks, which are included in the resolution programmes. I understand that was political demand. This gentleman has led the Financial Supervision Authority to engage in political action, but this is the subject for a separate discussion. I hope that when all these written conversations and deeds reach the right authorities, it will be an opportunity to talk. [[We hope so, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u288	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Rusiecki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u289	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you answer all the questions very interestingly and competently, talking about issues that arouse interest. I was interested in a part of your speech on, if I may say so, the universality of the European Union's tax on financial institutions, at least since 2010. I ask this because in the media coverage of some journalists, especially from electronic media, it is dominant that this tax should apply in Hungary, where it is strongly criticised, and in Poland. My question is how you as an economist, the financier thinks why this tax was not introduced in Poland in 2010 as part of the search for an additional source of income to the state budget. Why did such secret or less secret advisors appear, Prime Minister Tusk or Minister Rostowski, like Mr Petru, who thought in a completely different direction when it comes to building new sources of income in the budget? Thank you very much. [[The voice from the hall: And they said that we would be a green island.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u290	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u291	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Quiet, please.]] Here we touch questions about the state model. I in the previous term, when the around budget laws were discussed, each time I asked the finance minister, first Rostowski, and then Szczurka, why he did not introduce a bank tax, why he did not introduce a tax on hypermarkets, why he was receiving money, small money, some small additions... I remember this humorous act of collecting a penny for commuting to the prison service. Right? It seems that after 16 zlotys, these people were taken away from the budget. Right? And at the same time she was reluctant to reach out to those so-called. The deep pockets I was talking about. That's every time... To check; it's in the transcripts. I've always talked about it. Why was there such animosity? Well, that was the construction of the state for eight years. [[Prime Minister Morawiecki...]] This group, this economic council at Tusk's premiere, was composed of presidents or chief economists of foreign banks operating in Poland, foreign banks operating in Poland. [[And Prime Minister Morawiecki.]] Imagine what would happen if, for example. Angela Merkel had an economic council composed of presidents of American, English, Chinese banks. What would happen? What would happen? And that's what happened in Poland. for many years, and it didn't surprise anyone. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You didn't have a problem with that. I did, I had a problem with that. I thought these people weren't supposed to be here... [[Condominium...]] ...because they didn't represent... They've always been in conflict... [[Prime Minister Morawiecki will lead us out...]] [[Senator, please be quiet.]] ...they were always in conflict of interest, because as employees of a foreign bank, they were supposed to advise on Polish economic policy to the Polish Prime Minister. I think it was a border crossing, but it's over, of course, it's over. I'm talking about the people who were employed at the time... [[Voice from the room: But what does this have to do with this bill?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...they worked at these banks... I heard about the Moravian Prime Minister. Mr Morawiecki is no longer the president of this bank, he now works for the Polish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u292	I ask you to ask Senator Gazwada a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u293	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, literally just a moment ago you said something that I would like to ask you, using your knowledge and experience, because I do not know whether this question sometimes goes slightly beyond the scope of the committee's work today. What is the share of banks in the European Union's own market? I mean, for example. our western neighbors. What are these regional, local and local banks involved in trading financial instruments in their country, and what is the share of Polish banks in the Polish market? And can this law, commonly referred to as the Banking Tax Act, be an opportunity to level up this negative level or even raise it in favour of our own, native, Polish banks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u294	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u295	Thank you very much. I remembered that I still owed information about the countries in which the 14 countries of the European Union have this so-called one. bank tax. This is Germany, France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Belgium, Sweden, Hungary, Slovenia, Austria, Cyprus... I think I replaced them all. As for the structure of the banking sector... In Poland we have the dominant foreign capital. This is one of the problems that we find after years of one economic policy, one economic plan, an economic plan that most beautifully identified in the German press one of the prominent German economic activists, I will now check the name... As he said, it was such a plan that Poland was to be a workshop table for German companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u296	I ask you to ask Senator Dowhan's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u297	Thank you very much. Could the Senator rapporteur at least say 'Cause you mentioned how many countries it is. The amount of tax rates in these countries? If you have that information.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u298	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u299	I won't mention you in all of them, but I'll try to give you a lot of examples. E.g. British law From 0.075 to 0.1. Hungary, I quote . 0,3. There is one thing that needs to be pointed out: these taxes are shaped differently. After all, everyone, in shaping this tax, wants to model the financial market in different ways. E.g. in the UK, this tax is not on assets, but on liabilities. Why from liabilities? Since the UK Government has noted that it would be very interesting to bring banks into a situation where it would not be worth taking large investments in which banks themselves would refuse customers, they pushed these customers into the market: and go, buy corporate bonds, commit, lend to someone the same money; as you will bring us more than the sum of the deposit guaranteed by the bank guarantee fund 'Cause up to that level, this tax is low. The bank will then offer an attractive offer. And for those of you who have big money, he'll have an unattractive offer. So there is, you can say, the phenomenon of pushing money into the economy. After all, it is not about money, savings collected in banks growing infinity, because it is dangerous and bad for the economy. This was best said by the Japanese Prime Minister, who, in order to discourage his fellow countrymen from constantly saving money in banks, said: use it or lose it, or use it or lose it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u300	I ask you to ask Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have the following question. I read on one of the web portals that, according to the Global Financial Integration analysis, an international organisation conducting research on illegal financial flows, as many as 5% go abroad Polish GDP, or 90 billion a year. The most such transfers are made by foreign corporations, including German companies. Today, some view the background of attacks on the Polish government and Poland in the European arena. Are you familiar with this information, and could you comment on it in any way? That's the first question. And my second question. Since you mentioned the President of the NCF in the nomination of the Civic Platform, I would like to know if, according to your knowledge, there are prosecutorial proceedings at the moment with regard to the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Committee. Do you know anything about that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u302	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u303	As for the question of prosecutorial proceedings against Mr Jakubiak, I have no such information. I've seen a lot of press articles, but I don't know if they're reliable. I don't have any confirmed information. But I think the senator might ask that. Anyway, I could answer that nicely, and the committee wasn't on the subject. As for my comment on the issue of 90 billion coming from Poland... Yeah, those numbers are probably real. And I think it would be worth asking this also in the context of monetary policy or the policy of the National Bank of Poland. Soon we will have candidates for the Monetary Policy Council here, it seems that at the January meeting we will, as Senate, elect three people to the Monetary Policy Council. And then it is worth asking about this issue, because it affects the management of foreign reserves, the risk of destabilising Polish money and losing our reserves. The violent withdrawal of funds abroad could seriously violate our reserves. But I think that it will already be at another meeting that we will have the opportunity to talk about monetary policy, reserves and the size of the funds that are coming into Poland and coming out of it. Because these are the key questions to the members of the Monetary Policy Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u304	Senator Elephant, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u305	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, was there a thread in the committee's proceedings about the expectations of financial institutions, banks, that they would be able to exist on the Polish financial market if the existing financial institutions and banks started to overwhelm the transaction costs and those costs would fall on the customers of the institutions? Is there a phenomenon of blocking the entry into the Polish market of institutions of this type or banks? Did it exist, and is there any way that we can counteract it so that tax regulations do not affect customers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u306	Yes, this issue was raised during the meeting. It is about the role of the Consumer and Competition Protection Office, which can effectively counter price increases and the use of banking collusion. So if it turns out that this law will be used as an excuse to try to collude in order to force higher prices, then of course the Polish State has the Office for Consumer Protection and Competition, which is intended to counter such attempts at monopolistic behaviour or monopolistic collusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u307	Senator Dowhan. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u308	Thank you. That's my last question. I'd like to ask because... [[I don't believe it.]] You don't believe me? Too bad, I thought you were a believer. I'd like to ask if you could give me the tax rate. Because yesterday, between the first and second readings in the Seym, she changed. I don't know if she's changed since it's happening so fast. And it's grown radically. It's a good thing we have three readings, not more, because that stake would probably be much, much bigger. What's the stakes we're debating today? Because I'm a little confused about all the materials. [[It's not in print.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u309	I'm not surprised, Mr. Senator, you may have lost your way, that's true. Because this law was amended, individual balance sheet items were excluded from the tax base, e.g. State Treasury bonds have been excluded from the banks' balance sheets. Thus, there were various operations, even with regard to cooperative banks associations, there was also an exemption here. They also changed thresholds, ceilings. For companies, for insurance companies this ceiling has been lowered to PLN 2 billion and at the same time the rate has been reduced for them. So the current rate is 0.0366%. the tax base per month, Article. 7th Bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u310	Senator Ryszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u311	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I have a question about the impact of banking tax on the situation on the Warsaw Stock Exchange. Here I will just remind you that when the announcement of the bank tax appeared, the Warsaw Stock Exchange continued to downgrade for more than a year And at the moment, it's growing. What do you say? [[It's not the Polish stock market.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u312	This is, Mr. Senator, proof of the independence of these two phenomena. This means that this tax has no effect, in short, on the stock market behaviour, that one of the other does not follow. He could have had it if this stock market was working differently, but she's a pretty specific organism.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u313	Thank you. Senator Augustine. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u314	I'm sure we read a similar press. Some commentators... [[Mr. Senator reads the weekly in the Network?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[I don't think so.]] This is where you caught me online. [[Congratulations, it's a very good weekly.]] Some media reports And based on my consumer experience, I can at least confirm it for some banks. That some banks have recently actually raised some charges. The comments are that, as the intentions in this regard were loudly expressed, banks had discounted this situation much earlier by raising charges. Did you discuss this at the committee meeting, or is there any orientation in this regard? Because there is no doubt that the bank has money or depositaries or borrowers and that it will pay this tax from our money because there are no others. So he either has to get it or he has to cut the profits, right? That is why I would like you to address this, both in the press reports and in my experience with at least two banks.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u315	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u316	Mr. Senator, if your bank has unduly raised your fees, I suggest you do what the Americans did, but there was a great deal of action... [[Change the bank.]] Yeah, I'm just suggesting we change the bank, find another bank. Such consumer behaviour, if we also facilitate... Because it is very important that, as recommended by the European Union, the transfer of accounts between banks is facilitated. Such facilitations are largely found in Polish regulations, but they are not yet as if sufficiently informed to consumers. So this ease of moving bills, the fact that banks don't have the ability to attach a client to each other, like, in short, a man to the ground, is very important and this is the best action. That's the way it's gonna work... [[But I didn't ask about my situation.]] ...calls an immediate reaction because it realizes that the wall has just arrived. I was talking about a market approach to service prices. One day one of the bank presidents asked why credit cards in Poland are so expensive answered that that's why they are so expensive, because they can be. It's easy, isn't it? Well, if there's so much you can take, that's how much you take. That's it. Regarding the reasons for the rise in service prices in banks, during the meeting he answered this question, I think, probably the president of the Polish Bank Association. And he said he didn't see any price increases in some banks as a form of... [[That's what we know.]] ...the anticipation of the tax, he sees it as an attempt to compensate for the costs of contributions to the Bank Guarantee Fund or to the aid fund for franchise borrowers. This is also due to the different regulatory pressure of the regulator to create reserves in connection with franc credits and changes in the approach to credit policy in general. So this is a whole complex of reasons that affect the search... Owners are paying for the same profits, so they need to be found, and mostly commission income, various fees are sought here. But, as I said, this entry into force of this law can have a very good impact on this situation. It'll increase competition and maybe make... And to this senator, I wish the senator an interest in services... I could... I don't want to advertise my... But look at the nearest cooperative bank...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u317	Senator Jackowski, please. [[I keep a few of my savings there.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question. Does the senator agree with Professor Rybiński's opinion, I quote: "In Poland there must be changes in financial supervision. There should be regulations that prevent banks from applying a non-transparent pricing policy behind which customer picking is carried out? Do you agree with Professor Rybinski's opinion on financial supervision in the context of banking tax as well? The conclusion of this statement by Professor Rybiński is this: "The bank tax policy will be effective when a different vision of financial supervision in Poland is implemented. This will allow people to know what the real prices are at the banks, it's impossible to over-buy customers.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u319	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u320	That's right, I fully agree with that opinion. I even remember quoting a very shocking statement for me by the head of financial supervision, who said that foreign banks in Poland are because... that is, not because of the size of the market, but because of its profitability. So he knows very well that this profitability in the operations of foreign banks in Poland is excessive and does nothing about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u321	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u322	Senator, Professor Kazimierz Poznański from the University of Washington once reported such data: in Poland 85% of the banking sector was sold for 5% the replacement value. Professor Jan Szewczak said it was sold for about 25 billion, that's about 200 billion cheaper than it could be collected. In turn, in 2014 and 2013, the pure income of the banks after tax amounted to 31 billion. In 2014, it was 16.2 billion, and in 2013 it was 15.4 billion. So, don't you think the tax we're introducing is still too low? And with all the facts I've given here, do you agree? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u323	I fully agree with the facts. Well, it's hard to argue with facts. Yes, indeed, such amounts are true. Is the tax at the right level? I think it's been well calculated. He is, I would say, at European level, i.e. if you compare the size of the burden, then I think it will turn out that he is at European level. So there will be no incentive to move business to other countries, as it is for example due to overregulation of payment institutions in Poland. Because at the moment payment institutions are looking for offices outside Poland and suddenly the Czech Republic is becoming very fashionable. Right? So that's what you have to pay attention to. So I think this tax is at the right level. After six months, and it's best after a year to be evaluated. We will see what market behaviour will be like, how companies will settle against this tax, and it can be corrected. It can be corrected. Tax isn't something that... It's not physical law, is it? This is the will of the legislator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u324	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Is the government representative... [[But I still have a question.]] [[There you go.]] But I've completed this stage, Mr. Marshal. No one volunteered. [[You've been reporting to the marshal. He volunteered, volunteered.]] [[Voice from the room: Too late. We're in the next...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u325	Senator rapporteur, I would like to ask you about exemptions, etc., as well as the thresholds for the SKOKs. [[Voice from the room: Louder.]] I'd like to ask you about the SKOKs. You said 57%. The skoks are... [[Assets, assets.]] SKOK assets, yeah. [[Sector assets.]] And I'd like to know what it looks like when it comes to the number of SKOKs. This tax for two reasons doesn't include... This applies to those financial institutions, banks with assets below 4 billion is one reason. And the second reason is that this applies to those banks that are in recovery proceedings. So that's for two reasons. So tell me how many SKOKs this tax doesn't cover because of this amount of assets... Or else: how many skOKs does he include? 'Cause I think it'll be easier. Two, four? [[Easier, yeah.]] On the other hand, how many SKOKs does it not cover for reasons of resolution? [[Question for KNF.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u326	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u327	That first question is very easy. Ok. 57% The assets of the SKOK sector are the Stefczyk Cashier. One. Over PLN 7 billion in assets. And that includes her. The other forty-six dollars... I'm sorry, but I haven't been in charge of the cashier's office in three years. The remaining forty-several cash registers have a total of around 43% the assets of the sector, and they are not subject to this tax. How much money is in recovery, I don't know. That's what I've said before. I don't want to give that number because I don't have that information, but if Senator... Just as I can't tell you how many cooperative banks are in the recovery programme. I know that the Bank of Polish Cooperatives, because I read it on their website, I saw their annual report and that information is there, so I can say that. I know that from commercial banks, there's a Getin bank in the repair program, and it's not going to be taxed either, but that... maybe you have a minister, and if you don't, then obviously you can ask KNF. [[Thank you, Senator, I'll ask the Minister.]] Maybe just one last comment... It is even good that in such order we talk about this banking tax, after discussing six-year-olds, after considering the role of demography in Poland. Tax and its role cannot be considered in isolation from the purpose of this tax. We know what this tax is for. This tax is intended to... help, to be one of the tools for improving the demographic situation of Poland and to counter the expected decline of the Polish nation within 50 years to 16 million people. That is the purpose of this tax. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u328	Thank you very much. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Konrad Raczkowski: No.]] No. Hello, Minister Raczkowski. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Zdrojewska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u329	Thank you very much. I'd like to... We have such a path of parliamentary projects. The government is not preparing projects, but I think that Members will not really be responsible for the financial consequences, for example. new taxes, just the government. I would like to ask if the Ministry of Finance did not only calculate exactly what this tax would bring, but also estimated the possible problems and losses associated with the introduction of these taxes. We already know that the media report about redundancies in PZU... in PZU probably not yet, but in PKO BP and several other banks in Poland, where of course there are no dwarfs or some bad bankers from the European Union, only Polish, well-educated graduates of our universities who are employed there. It is said in the context of these redundancies with very large numbers, reaching several thousand. My colleagues also mentioned increases in certain fees, etc. Did you try to estimate that? That's my first question. And my second question is this. When we can expect, when did you plan Is it going to be, for example? after one year of application of this tax What's the evaluation, the evaluation? Will we be able to hear a report on this in the Senate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u330	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u331	Dear Marshal, High Senate! As regards the first question of the senator's estimates of the introduction of this tax, I reply that the economic estimates of the budgetary impact are at the level of PLN 4.4 billion, taking into account, of course, the amendments that were tabled today during the committee's work. That's what I'd like to point out. And what are the consequences for the economy? What the senator was polite to note, in my opinion, is not reflected in the introduced tax, i.e. redundancies in banks or policies of insurance companies result from completely different economic processes which are taking place at the moment. One of them is computerisation leading to increased productivity and productivity, resulting in redundancies. This is a question of the bank's staff policy, a matter of individual staff policy. When it comes to, for example, o PKO BP, this is the largest bank that Perhaps this is also the reason for the currently announced redundancies. As regards the assessment of this tax, the Ministry of Finance is currently preparing a tax strategy to be presented to the Council of Ministers at the end of January. Within this strategy, which in one form or another will be adopted, the tax system as a whole, i.e. each tax title, each tax, should be subject to such an evaluation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u332	Thank you very much. Senator Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u333	Mr Marshal, Minister, we did not get all the answers at the committee meeting, and not all the questions were asked, so I would like to ask the Minister whether the draft of this law was assessed by the Financial Stability Committee. This law certainly has an important impact on the whole financial, insurance sector, so I am convinced that the opinion of this committee would be extremely important for this law. It's one question. Second question. We in this law accept assets as a tax base. In most European solutions, the liabilities of financial institutions are adopted, although not everywhere, of course. It seems that asset taxation makes sense in those countries where there is overgrowth in the banking sector, i.e. it is very strong, while liabilities, if any, should be taxed in those countries where the sector is weaker. Haven't you considered, as Minister of Finance, that perhaps a better solution for our system, for a system in such a condition would be taxation of liabilities rather than assets? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u334	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u335	Mr Senator, as far as the opinion of the Financial Stability Committee is concerned, as I know, this opinion has not been presented in writing, but the Committee's representatives have expressed their opinion in the course of their work. The opinion was generally positive. There were proposals for amendments, actually suggestions and comments, which I am not fully referring to at the moment. Another issue is the choice of taxation to be applied, whether to tax assets or liabilities, or liabilities with exemptions, or assets that are balanced, plus different factors. The construction of this tax in the world is some and they function, better or worse, but they function. With regard to the senator's argument that asset taxation is taking place in countries where, I understand, the banking system is weaker... Am I getting this right?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u336	No, no... I told you that assets are taxed in those countries where this system is more developed, which is where there is a very strong banking system. So, as I understand it, we have adopted this concept. If you look at these tax systems in different European countries, you can see that the taxation of liabilities prevails.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u337	You can't fully agree with the senator's opinion. It means it is difficult to say that the banking sector in Poland is not strong. He's, uh... We now have overliquidity in this sector, i.e. the value of mortgages granted is several times lower than the sum of loans that could have been granted in order to demand credit from the public. So I don't really have that opinion. So as far as securing the capital adequacy of the Polish banking sector is concerned, it is really solid and is based on solid foundations. I will say more: a large proportion of European banks are just adapting to Basel III, and we already had it a few years ago and we have it now. So when it comes to the facts and the financial factors that I'm talking about, it's a little out of place. With regard to the interest rate here, the rapporteur was very kind to note that the profitability of this sector in Poland is very high... I can only say that the average mortgage rate is 4.5 to 7% and the rate of such loans in countries such as Sweden, Denmark or Germany does not exceed 3%, in Spain too, and in the UK this rate is 3.12. As far as margins are concerned, they are often four times higher in Poland than in other European countries, so it is not that this sector is weak. He is weak as regards the share of foreign capital in relation to the share of Polish capital in the total balance sheet total, if any. I'd agree with that opinion, but others seem unreasonable.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u338	Does the senator want to speak on this question? [[I have a few more questions, but I don't want to ask everyone right now to fit in a minute.]] Maybe in order, okay? [[If there are others...]] Mr. Senator Borusewicz. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. Or did I misinterpret your application? [[My swing?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u339	Yes, Mr. Marshal... I wanted to repeat the question I asked Senator Bierecki about the SKOKs, because I only received one part of the answer. So I know that one SKOK because of this value of capital, I would say, comes into this taxation, but some SKOKs do not go into this taxation not because of the value of capital, but because they are in the process of repair. How many skoks are there?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u340	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u341	According to KNF, at the end of the first quarter of the current year 41 SKOKs at 50 were subject to repair. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u342	Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u343	Minister, I have a question about the types of financial institutions that are covered by this law. We have at the moment 9 such types of institutions, they are listed in the article. 4 (1) to (9), but certain are not covered by that law. Which, according to you, Of course, this law has a fiscal purpose, for example. should the amount of their assets be covered by this law? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Konrad Raczkowski: Sorry, Mr. Senator, I didn't hear the beginning. Would you be kind enough to repeat the subject matter?]] It's about financial institutions. There are different types of financial institutions, e.g. associations of investment funds. Please tell me, what types of entities that are not covered by this Act at the moment, due to the disposal of assets, should be covered by this Act for fiscal reasons?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u344	For fiscal reasons, two groups of entities should be included, by contractual adoption of banks and insurers. As I understand it, the senator's doubts may arise in this respect, whether, in the form of an extension of the definition, in such a broad definition of a three-step definition, an interpretation can be used which would indicate that we will de facto be subject to different financial institutions. Such overinterpretation could arise, it could be presented by tax authorities. And right away, I'm kind of giving you a heads-up. If it were to occur, the general interpretation would exclude the possibility of any further interpretation which would be subject to it. So, as I understand it, we have these three types of entities today: banks, insurers and loan companies. And these entities are concerned by this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u345	Thank you very much. Senator Shark.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u346	Minister, I have a question. It follows from the provision of the Act that the Act exempts state banks and taxpayers covered by a recovery programme or recovery plan from tax. Do I understand correctly that this applies to current entities that are subject to a plan for recovery and future action, because this is a recovery plan? Will the entity that is going to be in financial trouble also be covered by the same scheme, i.e. exempt from tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u347	If it meets the conditions for inclusion in the recovery plan, i.e. if it has a prepared and approved recovery plan, does it have at the moment, or will it have in the future That's right, she'll be covered by the scheme.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u348	Is that why I would like to hear it? Isn't there such a danger that it'll just be worth getting into financial trouble to be exempt from taxes in the future? It's a little...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u349	I'm gonna answer a little perversely. When it comes to committing illegal acts, if someone at the time of setting up an economic activity focuses on committing illegal acts, then yes... But it's gonna be... Actually, there's a fraction of those when the credibility of the entities is practically zero, but they have a short right to be on the market if they even have one. However, as different situations show, they can operate in any country, because in any country you can fool a group of clients... [[The pyramid...]] ...and companies, of course, on the assumption... There are examples of such entities in Poland, there are examples of such entities in other countries. [[But is there any protection against it?]] Is there a protection against intentional introduction to the recovery plan? Yes, it is. The current legislation already regulates this, and in addition we introduce a tax avoidance clause, so that it will additionally close it systemically.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u350	Thank you very much. Senator Elephant.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u351	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, can the financial institutions mentioned in the bill as future taxpayers be compensated by this tax, and is this a universal method? Do you think there's even such a method? I'm not a financier, but I'm wondering if it could affect, for example. to revive the market by trying to increase their turnover, their activity and thus trying to compensate themselves for this tax. The second question is whether there were other financial institutions which in your initial project were taken into account and which were not among those identified as future taxpayers. If they were, what and why didn't you include them here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u352	This isn't a government project. I'm starting with a second question. This is a parliamentary project. Could such financial institutions be included here? They could be. Or all of them? No. Why not? Since the large-scale network tax will soon be introduced and those who will be subject to this tax will certainly not be able to be subject to banking tax. Or others, e.g. The franchisees, the whole factoring sector, etc., could they be involved? In certain areas yes, in some cases not if they were not subject to the tax I was talking about in the near future. As far as tax compensation is concerned, it is certainly possible to do so. I.e. the managers, i.e. how they will adopt a business strategy, will depend on what business model they will develop, which, first, will be legal, second, will be profitable, and thirdly, will revive the economy. Is it possible? It's possible. Maintenance e.g. too high capital requirements in insurance companies are not specifically justified and there is no special practice in other European countries. This means that the relationship with us, especially in the PZU, of assets free to others is very high, so it can certainly be investment funds and it does not have to be allocated to the payment of dividends. Is that a possibility? They are and I would say they are entirely in the hands of managers who will lead the group or the subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u353	Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u354	Mr Marshal, Minister, the tax we propose is almost 0.44% a year. basics. This is one of the higher taxes in Europe, among the more than a dozen countries in which banking tax applies. How was this amount calculated, and why is it at this level? Aren't you worried that the government might be too much taxation, which will, however, destabilise the financial system? Some countries, e.g. here mentioned Hungary, from year to year this tax is reduced, next year it will probably be 0.3% or even less, so it is clearly visible that there is a decreasing trend and it is quite high with us. And one more question. Senator Bierecki also said this in his report, answering the question. That in Poland they are very high... And, the Minister also mentioned that there are high credit costs, large margins and large fees that banks apply. Is there any chance of that? However, in a group of banks there is a dominant bank with a large share of the state sector and the state has a large influence there. It is this bank that, thanks to its large share of state ownership, it will adopt a practice aimed at reducing all these charges, the costs applied by other banks, so that the system is much cheaper than it is? Because citizens will then choose this bank, where there will be lower fees or significantly lower fees.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u355	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u356	Dear Senator, as to why such a tax rate and whether it is the highest in the world, it is... [[I'm not saying the world.]] Is she one of the tallest? I'm sure it's not. We must remember, ma'am, that we need to take into account two main titles, i.e. CIT tax, which is 19% in Poland. And this is the main tax source of banks and financial institutions... In the world, this tax for these institutions is often 39%. Without considering the strict bank tax excluding CIT, we are missing out on any estimate. Only after summing up these two main tax titles, which are the essence of the banking tax in most countries of the world, will we notice that this rate of 0.44% on an annual basis, which has numerous exemptions, is not high with banks, but also loan institutions in Poland. As far as profitability is concerned, ROI is at a level when it comes to insurers, 19%. No activity in Poland gives such profitability. And we have to remember that. Banks have about 4 percentage points less; depending on the banks, this is between 4 and 8 percentage points. This is profitability at a very, very high level. Profitability of many industries in Poland... The margin is at a level of 12%. Margins of 4 and 7% they're rare.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u357	I also asked if the state bank would also influence the reduction of these margins and bank charges so that the Polish customer would have cheaper services or costing comparable to what is happening in other European countries. You mentioned that in our country these margins, the fees of all kinds are clearly higher than in other countries. Is it possible, thanks to the fact that the State Treasury has this dominant position in the Bank of Poland, that this impact of the State Treasury will go in that direction in order to reduce these costs, to bring to the European level all these charges?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u358	These are the decisions of this particular bank. We're talking about PKO BP; I'm sure the senator means this bank. Well, it's hard to influence from the outside... It's the board and the owner who has to decide what direction they're going to go. Can this be done by a scale effect, setting a trend? Of course you can. The question is, isn't it even necessary... Absolutely. Can this be done and achieve even greater profitability? I suppose so.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u359	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u360	Minister, it seems that no one can move so efficiently that, so to speak, in terms of rules like parabanks called loan institutions here. Isn't this 200 million asset entry easy to miss? For example, by division or underdog... Are there any laws that protect you from this? Because I'm afraid, knowing the practice, that it could be an absolutely fictional record for those that I'm going to say colloquially, smart guys.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u361	In fact, most of us should agree with the senator's opinion. I mean, the sum... Maybe it's different. The loan services sector operates on a completely different basis from insurers and different from banks. There's surgeries... The business model is based on the activities of providing as many loans as possible, usually on small amounts. I'm already skipping the contracts that are made there, what is the interest rate, whether it's not even usury at all in certain cases. We know he's... Indeed, in the context of such a provision, it does not appear that their real taxation at the moment is detrimental to the sector. However, there will be one on some level. What? We don't have that estimate. However, since one of the operators, for example Provident, employs more than 11 000 people in Poland, it can be seen that these people have to earn money for themselves. And this shows that the sector is developing enormously in a short period of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u362	Senator Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u363	Mr. Marshal, I apologize for asking so many questions. I usually try not to do this, because when I attend a committee meeting, I try to ask about things and there we discuss these issues, always in an open way. But it was our committee meeting that ended quite abruptly, because it was simply the beginning of the plenary session, so it was not even possible to fully discuss the amendments that we would like to make. I'm not complaining about it. I'm just letting you know that it is. And that's why my questions are here. And that's the next question right now. Haven't you considered, Mr. Minister, that some of the impact of the banking tax should be spent on strengthening the stabilisation fund? I ask this because in many European countries even all such income In some cases this is shared as revenue of the state budget It is transferred to the stabilisation fund to ensure that, in fact, these funds collected in the banking sector also contribute to the strengthening of the sector. After all, they would be further in the public finance sector, but they would allow for more flexible action and would allow stability of the system, which here, us, happily praise God functions well and there is no turbulence, but it certainly needs to be nurtured. And the other thing. The Minister pointed out that the profitability of the banking sector in Poland is relatively high compared to profitability in other countries and is probably higher than in other sectors. This problem is also highlighted by the Market Economy Research Institute. Professor Leszek Pawłowicz, who is one of the most prominent banking specialists in Poland, says this: would it not be better to introduce a bank tax, which has its consequences for the credit system, etc. And there's no denying that this could raise the various types of bank charges... He says that perhaps it would be better to raise the tax on the banking sector in such a way that it is a profit tax, and it could have a better effect, it could have been such... it would have prevented price increases, the costs of various banking services.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u364	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u365	(PL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! As for the senator's first question about strengthening the stabilisation fund... This would not be an appropriate solution in terms of stabilising public finances, maintaining expenditure rules and managing public debt. If we put these funds at our so-called disposal, into free but unused funds, we wouldn't directly secure the loan needs of the state, we couldn't finance... Funding would be microscopic in some way, although perhaps largely limited, and perhaps would increase the budget deficit by keeping this pool in so-called unused funds. So it doesn't seem like a good solution if we have double protection. In other words, banks pay a double tranche, which is generally a double stream to this fund. As far as taxation is concerned, what Professor Pavlowicz reported... I know the proposal. We've talked to the professor about it several times. Ladies and gentlemen, taxation on profits... If we sit next to each other people who have an average, not even outstanding knowledge, then in one day we will develop such opportunities to circumvent this tax... If the senator wishes this tax wouldn't be 80%. paid, in one day such mechanisms will be worked out that at the end of the tax year minus 80% will be paid. And this is one of the worst forms, because we assume that the world is honest, that there is this homo economics within the meaning of classical economics or in the flow of so-called neoliberal economy... this, ladies and gentlemen, is not how it works. I remind you of a clear lesson from a few years ago, which continues to this day. However, the senator gave me something with his previous question. Now, speaking of this question, I thought I didn't want to tell the future PKO BP authorities anything, but I see a direction. If PKO BP sets a trend, reducing the margin, reducing the interest rate, it is natural that the result of the scale will attract customers. If customers want to come, they'll come to PKO BP. Others either have to follow this path, or, unfortunately, they will lose. So that the senator has actually worked out a good strategy with his question. And this is certainly something that can be suggested to the future authorities of PKO BP.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u366	Senator Bierecki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u367	Minister, you mentioned that for these loan companies this tax rate is not really relevant because of the high profits they make. Do you think that in the case of these loan companies, this rate should be different from that of other entities? The Act here accepts the same tax rate for all entities subject to this tax, but here we are actually dealing with companies, loan companies, which carry out extremely lucrative activities, so perhaps such a low rate is the wrong advantage in their case? Shouldn't this change and increase this tax rate for this sector?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u368	I have a little dilemma here about the answer to that question. It seems to me that it would be appropriate to keep the provisions adopted at the current level, but at the moment the tax authorities, the supervisory authorities, have the possibility to intervene, the possibility to control the activities of these companies. And it seems to me that if this law were to enter into force, it would be possible to apply a parallel double-track, on a check-and-balance basis, of the activities of this sector. And then we'll see how much of that tax would affect. I think that would make the most sense, because so far we have not had such tax solutions, such additional burdens for this sector, and yet he has grown and grown... [[That's it. That's it. That's it.]] ...at a very rapid rate. [[You're still a marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u369	Mr. Marshal, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u370	Minister, these parabanks, the loan companies... I'd like to ask you if there are safeguards that would prevent a simple circumvention of this tax. Well, such a simple bypass at first glance is the division of these companies. This is the easiest, right? Divide into two parts, into three parts, to go below the 200 million. Is there protection against such division? If there isn't, it would have to be secured from the so-called owner's website. I mean, it's either from the tax side or from the owner side. If there is one owner or one owner has shares in several parabanks, this should be added up. Is there such a security?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u371	You're welcome. [[Minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u372	Dear Senator, such security is. The anti-law clause clearly clarifies this further... So that's like, uh... division by separation as a form of tax optimization which... This is one of the forms. In other words, if the act is apparent, it will be regarded as a clear violation of the law and will not serve to reduce the tax base. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u373	Thank you very much, Minister. Does anyone else want to ask a question? You're still a marshal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u374	Minister, have you noticed any movement regarding the increase in credit costs? Are they related to the drafting of this bill? Do financial institutions, banks precede the entry into force of this law by making certain moves, even increasing the margin, which is the easiest? Because, of course, the banks claim that the margins are increasing due to the need to increase the Banking Resources of the Guarantee Fund. This bank fund was probably doubled in terms of write-down, increased due to SKOK-i during the first half of the previous year. In addition, do you notice any pre-emptive movements, attempts to pass costs on to bank clients?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u375	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u376	Dear Senator, we have been able to trace this information in recent press releases, but from the reports of the institutions responsible for surveillance... I have not seen such data recently, although in recent years we can observe that the structure of margins and interest rates is changing. She's being changed, I'd say, cyclically. So that's a pretty solid element that's been going on for a couple of years. It is not that nothing has been done in recent years, because all the time adjustments have been made, sometimes quite significant. Sometimes these terms of the client's contract were changed during the duration in a way that de facto broke that contract... Some banks have, for example, introduced corporate social responsibility, among others. raising margins or interest rates that completely conflict with the practices that apply. So it's actually been done for a few years. I have not noticed here the preservation of principles of good business practice in this business. In recent times, such practices may occur. These are individual bank decisions; that depends on how they decide. With his question, the senator inspired me to... if PKO BP decides to set up a new market strategy, then all banks will have to follow that lead, and then there will definitely be no risk to the client. I dare say that the bank's profitability will be on the same level if not at a higher level.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u377	Thank you very much. Are you still a marshal? You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u378	Minister, I want to take advantage of your presence and ask you a question about one of the parabanking institutions. We listen, we watch such ads in various electronic media. It's about Provident. Insurance against sickness, without research, etc., pay up to PLN 1 thousand per day, and the rate of PLN 1 per day. Tell me if you can tell me what this business is all about. Is this a business done on text messages?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u379	Mr. Marshal, this question goes beyond, very... [[I know, Mr. Marshal.]] But you're welcome, it's a good time, you're the minister. You're welcome, Minister. [[You're the minister, early, so...]] This question is more suitable for a committee meeting, but please. Mr. Marshal, we are patient, and so are you, Minister. You're welcome, Minister. Just please avoid the details, because I wouldn't want us to set up parabanking institutions here. [[No, I'd like to know how to warn you, because there's probably something bad behind it.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u380	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I would not like to refer specifically to Provident, although the example is remarkable, because parabanking institutions are much on the Polish market and they operate in quite similar ways. Well, contracts are... we've analyzed them at one time and I'd say that it would be advisable for the UOKiK, the tax authorities and possibly law enforcement authorities to intervene in specific such agreements. The provisions that are entered into the contract do not conform to the market at all, do not fall under any business rules legally. This is very often a typical hustling of customers, mainly older people, pensioners, who sign it unconsciously. There, the late payment of the contractual instalment by 1 day results in an increase in interest rates in individual contracts e.g. up to 50% Or 75%. This is unbelievable. And those contracts are working. So today it's rather a room for manoeuvre for institutions that have a mandate to control these types of contracts, to control these types of entities, and that they haven't done or did too carelessly lately.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u381	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Yes? Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u382	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! I am involved in social policy here, in the Senate and in my life, but it so happens that in the end, dealing with this subject, I have learned how important an institution or important institutions are for all of us banks. It's actually the blood flow of the economy, it's the blood circulation. also all transactions carried out in the public sector and, in addition, very closely inter-nationally linked. We found out during the banking crisis that the banking business concerns all of us and the most vulnerable in the market. It must be acknowledged that the Senate tried to defend those who suffered damage to their income due to the activities of the banks. I will recall here the Senate initiative which reduces interchange fees, for example the bill passed at the end of last term on dormant accounts, which is entering into force tomorrow, and the Senate has undertaken to monitor how effective this solution will be. It was about securing customers of banks, but it was also about protecting banks from unfair practices. I am talking about this because various attempts to solve such problems have shown how difficult it is to prevent costs from being passed on to customers every time. I would like to express my doubts as to whether it is true that we will achieve this goal fully, that we will gain money for the 500+ programme. I would also like to say that there is really no free lunch, and there is probably no way anyone other than us can pay for this tax. Of course, we need to say that there are several such extremely important sectors Of which banking That require strong supervision. Since we need banks like air, we can't do without them, nothing in the state, in the business can work without the flow of money, so it should be an incredibly strong and heavily regulated sector. I think it is worth referring to Senator Bierecki's statement, who said why it is much more expensive than elsewhere: because it is possible. But, Senator, Minister, it's not enough to say that, you have to ask a strong question: why can you? Well, I, coming to this law on dormant accounts, learned in the event of Amber Gold how weak it is to supervise the activities of banks in Poland. There's a huge field of action here, and I hope that's the time when we're going to be active again as Senate. We have been there twice before, but perhaps this should not be the end of the Senate initiative, because there are at least a few people here who have enough insight in the financial sector to work on strengthening this supervision, working with the finance department. It seems to me that we would do more for people who need support if we were to firmly control this sector and, in particular, put an end to the unfair practices of financial institutions than if we were to charge banks with tax first, we would spread it to those in need, and then we would be giving away this money. It doesn't seem like a good direction for the future. If money were more accessible, if people who are in need were not deceived, if we had protected older people from those practices that even the Minister mentioned, which should be our concern for those who are in need, we would have done far better, more and wiser. And I think we should, as the Senate, try to strengthen regulations that will lower the cost of credit and prevent usury practices from being easy, even though we have an anti-Lichwiar law. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister to continue this cooperation in his new term of office and to be fruitful. There's still a lot to do. For example, about those dormant accounts. We have covered banks and SKOK, but not yet other instruments and institutions, and it would be worth continuing this operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u383	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u384	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm really sorry if I didn't have a tie, but I'm not used to walking around in the same stuff for two days, and I can't really afford to trade. [[You should've brought that in.]] [[Uh, there.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] With 10 minutes, I would like to go back to the previous point for a moment, but to thank Senator Kopiczko Margaret for being the only one who had research on six-year-olds that the Minister didn't have. This proves that some of the questions were justified. Thank you again for this statement, it was really moving and substantive. You may be surprised, but I would also like to thank the rapporteur. Because anything to say was prepared for this point or is prepared for this point very well. Although I saw that some of the questions made you a little nervous, but you came up with a point and a point, it was hard... [[That's what I look like this time of day.]] ...it was hard to bend you with anything, so I think you've done a great job here. [[Applause]] [[Thank you very much.]] I think this tax should have been introduced much earlier... [[Bravo! Bravo!]] [[Applause]] ...because it's in other European countries, but it shouldn't be as drastic as it is today and it shouldn't be as high as it is today. This news about the bank tax has triggered what some of you, perhaps not specifically the senator, said, fluctuations about our stock exchange, which is also an indication of the economy. But in fact in many countries it is used. I do not know how he will get on in Poland, because Poland is sometimes a strange country and we try to avoid taxes in various ways. I'm afraid it won't happen here because there's this free sum of 2 billion or 4 billion zlotys... banks can somehow bypass this tax by dividing into smaller banks or creating some other, I don't know if it's technically possible. I would like to be wrong, and I would like to see this impact that you are assuming, which is PLN 4.4 billion, to be realistic at the end of the year. I'm gonna be so happy about this. And the fact that such anxiety has arisen may be because this tax should start at a much lower rate. I was wondering if I could make an amendment, but I was looking at the procession in the Sejm, during which these tax rates changed so much that by asking the rapporteur today, I did not really know what was finally adopted. Because you have no luck with taxes, gentlemen, to their uniformity. The pay-out tax for managers was probably 60 or 65% at first, too. And then suddenly it was 70%. It's a good thing we only have three readings, because sometimes we could wake up with a much bigger tax. But I'm sure I can't agree that it's not gonna affect the bank's margin increase. I have noted here the assurances of some banks that have already announced increases: Deutsche Bank By 0,65 percentage points, mBank. 0.4, Raiffeisen also by 0,4 points. This will certainly hit the poorest ones, those who need credit, who take small amounts, high interest rates. Because large companies will not allow themselves to pay large margins, they can calculate it differently. It will certainly hit small players, pensioners, people who turn small money, and in this case banks will be ruthless. I don't think we're going to be discussing this point, because unfortunately, it is, and I'm sure Senator Bierecki will agree, because where he can, banks and other entities That's what I'm trying to tell you. They're gonna make money. I'm worried. Even though it's still early today Once again, the method of proceding is that we do not have time to really get to know how it all took place in the Sejm, what was reading there, what tax rates were finally set. I mean, this procedure doesn't work. And we're not gonna be charming here. A fair preparation does not allow for fair questions or sometimes reliable answers. It only gives you sometimes the duplication of mistakes. And in order to vote well and be able to complete a ticket, it takes time, peace. This time and this peace, unfortunately, Mr. Marshal, has not been in place since the beginning of my term of office, which I regret very much, because for four years I have been prepared for a different way of proceeding over every bill. What happened here, also in the questions, which means that it won't affect the customers, we've already told each other. But PKO BP has already announced the release of exactly 836 employees. Is that a coincidence? I don't know. But there are also voices from other banks that, unfortunately, costs need to be reduced, and the best way to reduce them is where they are the largest, so where they involve hiring people. I hope that this will not affect job termination, wage restrictions, especially since if people are the most important people, these people should be taken care of. And I hope that the assumed proceeds of 4.4 billion, which, as you said, are going to affect people back. Although the bill doesn't exist yet, she's constantly changing and we don't know whether it's going to be for the first child or the fifth child, whether it's going to be for the poor or the rich, or for those who earn more than the marshal, or less... But time will tell. Thank you. Have a good New Year's Eve. I guess there's no senator named New Year's Eve, but I wish you all the best. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u385	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of the senator. Terminian.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u386	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I took the liberty of attending a committee meeting today. It actually had to be completed quite abruptly because there was no time to discuss all the amendments. However, there are some amendments, some issues have become clear to me and I would like to make these amendments to further work in the work of the Senate. The first thing is: in relation to the original version of the Law which was examined in the Sejm, banks managed to overcome certain exemptions in respect of certain assets, these assets will not be subject to this tax. The same provision does not apply to insurers. I am in favour of making the law so that it is as close as possible to the ideal from the beginning to be fairly clean. Therefore, my amendment, which is to add point 11 to Article 11. 5 to exclude the assets, in particular, the own funds referred to in Article. 148 Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. I'll give you the contents of the amendment in a moment. The second amendment concerns a similar situation. The banks also managed to push the exclusion from the tax base of assets in the form of treasury securities within the meaning of the Public Finance Act. Today we have the situation that the same assets would be taxed under the assets of the insurer and would not be taxed under the assets of the bank, which, in my view, creates the possibility of abuse by the banking and banking groups because we are dealing with such groups . assets at a place where they would not be taxed. As a result, the purpose of the law could not be achieved. On the other hand, we would be dealing with such a paradox of a little unfair competition, because those who would not have the opportunity to transfer these assets to an insurer... sorry, to a bank, they would have to pay a higher tax. Hence my conclusion that insurers should also release in this regard, in the same way as... as the banks have called it. It's about art. 5. Like I said, it's about adding points 11 and 12. Another amendment, which I would like to make, concerns the exemption from... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me? Another amendment concerns the exemption from taxation of state banks. At this point we are talking about exactly one bank, about Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. In the course of the committee's work, it was pointed out that this may constitute unlawful public aid, but I would approach the matter a little differently. We are dealing with the situation that Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is also issuing its bank bonds, which are part of the public finance deficit. So either we assume that this is an element of public finances, but then we should exclude bonds issued by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego from the tax base for all these institutions, or we will stand in reverse, which means we will not exclude these bonds... But then we should tax the state bank. I know that this seems a little bit crazy, but from the point of view of the impact on the state budget, it is indifferent. From the point of view of the state budget, it is irrelevant whether it receives a tax or a dividend from the bank when it is its sole owner. That is why I propose or delete the article. I wrote it down in the amendment proposal anyway. Or expand the scope of assets excluded from the tax base by adding bonds issued by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The last amendment that came to me in the course of the discussion was the amendment tabled by the banks, and I think that it could also be accepted. That is, in the valuation of assets, Article. 6, the exchange rate per working day preceding the date on which the tax base is established is indicated as the basis for the conversion of amounts denominated in foreign currencies into zlotys. Banks point out that they carry out their reporting according to a different record, namely that they calculate it according to the rate on the last day of the month. The difference is rather small, because in fact the difference of one day, but from the bank's point of view it means that double reporting is necessary, which I believe... Coming in hand and remembering that each such decision leads to an increase in costs for banks or insurers at all, because this also applies to insurers... I suggest, however, that we remain on this record, which today is in the banking regulations. That's it. Thank you. I'll hand over this amendment. There's an ugly one. [[But one or all?]] All three of them. [[All of them. I see. Good.]] All three of them. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u387	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to make some adjustments. And Senator Kazimierz Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u388	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, most of those things I'd like to talk about, I said when I asked questions. Also the answers I received from the Minister... So I hope to limit my speech to the fullest. First of all, I would like to inform the marshal and the High House that I am making a total of twenty-one amendments, some of which, twelve or thirteen, are legislative amendments prepared by our Legislative Office. It's possible that Senator Bierecki will report as well, but just to make sure that doesn't get away with it... So that I make these amendments, considering that they are important, all the more so because they were in principle not in doubt at the committee meeting. The second group of amendments are substantive amendments, which were also discussed at the committee meeting, but there was no opportunity to vote on them at this meeting. Some of these amendments have received a positive opinion from the Minister, so I hope they will also be supported by the High House. I'm not discussing them all. As I say, there will be an opportunity at the committee meeting to mention them, to discuss and analyse them. And here I would say only two or possibly three amendments. The first group is such amendments as would exempt the issuance of bonds from bank tax if they were guaranteed by the State Treasury or Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Otherwise, in practice, it would appear that, for example, funds or bonds issued by the National Road Fund, and by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, would be charged for development activities. It seems that this would be illogical, because in practice this would mean that the funds at the disposal of the state budget would continue to be taxed by bank tax. Second amendment... Other amendments concerning the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego are also related to it. One amendment, which we also discussed at the committee meeting and which initially raised the Minister's doubts, perhaps more the director of the department in the Ministry of Finance, concerns the exemption from banking tax of branches of Bank Polski, which has its branches outside Poland, within the framework of such a European passport. Because now, in the light of the current rules, the assets of banks which, as I say, have opened branches outside Poland, for example in Slovakia or in the Czech Republic, would be taxed and then the competitive position of these Polish institutions would be significantly worse than that of local banks investing there, etc. So it seems to me that it should be in our interest to support our financial institutions in investing in countries other than Poland. Corrections concerning insurance, etc. There are a few, I don't want to discuss them here. I'll tell you a few more general things. Bank tax has been introduced in several European countries over the last few years. So today it is not an emergency. This bank tax has been introduced or is it being introduced... It is the result of the financial crisis that has taken place in various European countries. It was actually a reaction to banks that were irresponsiblely pursuing their financial policies in different countries. As a result, individual countries had to involve a lot of taxpayers' resources from their budgets in order to save banks. And some of these countries began to face serious problems. A classic example is the situation of Ireland, which, before the financial crisis, had the lowest public debt in the euro area of 25%, and in 2014 this debt was already 123%. So that this country's debt, largely due to banking policy, was and is very serious. This was also the case in many, many other countries. For the first time, the banking tax was introduced in 2009 in Sweden. In 2010, it was introduced in Hungary, which caused, as you remember, a lot of emotions. Then the various other countries introduced this tax. However, I'm paying attention to this, and I'm basically sorry about the Ministry of Finance, the Law and Justice. We did not have time to discuss the banking tax discussed here. In our community, in the Civic Platform, there are no strong opponents of banking tax. But always, you can say, the devil is in the details. And we just didn't have the time and opportunity to be able to analyze the records related to the above-mentioned bank tax. Detailed information on this subject, that is, the bill, came to us only today, and a project that I tried to get to know somehow earlier... It was actually impossible. So it wasn't until last night that we could know the final shape of this bill. And these doubts are of all kinds. As I pointed out when I asked questions, they concerned, among others. whether to tax assets or liabilities. What would be better from the point of view of the Polish economy, the Polish financial system? Or would it be better to introduce an increased tax on profits in banks, which would have a lower impact, not directly on the costs incurred by customers? So these doubts are really very, very much. That's why they're making these adjustments. I hope that at the committee meeting we will be able to persuade colleagues, committee members and later the High House to support these amendments. I think that would be all I'd like to say at this stage. Most of my comments, my doubts also appeared during work in committee, as far as possible, we took note of this law and, as possible, we asked the Minister, but I feel, I have such an inner conviction that I do not fully know, I cannot say the consequences of this law, the extent to which they will be positive and to what extent they may be negative. Even today, the Minister pointed out that the profits of the banking sector are very high, they are far higher than in other industries. It is true that they are higher, but they are clearly lower in recent years and show a downward trend. Now the question of what effect will it have, how this banking tax will also affect the outcome of public finances. One more thing worth paying attention to here. We have not survived the banking crisis, the financial crisis as much as other European countries, and especially banks have gone through a dry time of crisis. I think that's one of the reasons I am even convinced that the supervision of this, the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission is good in Poland, can even say that very strict, sometimes such that it hurts banking institutions, but this system of supervision, very solid, very, so to speak, holding banks briefly, gives a positive effect. After all, there were even situations where the Financial Supervision Commission prohibited the distribution of profits in individual banks or limited them throughout the sector, etc. It was such a result that our banking system survived. The Bank Guarantee Fund is also a very important element of the system. I thought that maybe this banking tax, if we had introduced it, could have been divided to partially strengthen this system of financial stability. The Minister pointed out that he had doubts about the expenditure rule, etc., all these dependencies. It's hard for me to discuss it, and it's not a lot of time to examine it more thoroughly. Anyway, let's remember that the Bank Guarantee Fund this year spent huge funds to save the SKOK system, that was PLN 3 billion, the Bank of Cooperatives, another billion zlotys. It's a huge burden on the system. And just banks, not SKOKs, just banks, commercial banks had to add funds to the Banking Guarantee Fund so that this system would actually work. Then we have to remember that, too. We must bear in mind that these two elements, the KNF and the Bank Guarantee Fund, have enabled the whole system to survive in good condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u389	Thank you very much, Senator. And did you make these amendments to the senator? [[They're complex.]] Complicated. Okay. Good. [[I put them together with caution earlier so I wouldn't forget.]] They're here. Good. [[And they're on the record.]] They're here. Good. I thought the senator was gonna put them together right now. Okay. Now please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u390	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have many amendments that I intend to make. These include legislative amendments, which we discussed extensively at the committee meeting, but there are also some substantive amendments that I will allow me to signal. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz asked about the possibility for companies to avoid this tax by dividing it by operating in many entities. This issue in the case of loan companies has been resolved in the Sejm and indeed this limit is calculated together for all taxpayers who are credit institutions, dependent or dependent directly or indirectly on one entity or group of connected entities. So I think a pretty good solution has been adopted in the Seym. However, we have noticed that this problem also concerns the insurance sector, and there are a number of companies that have the same owner, but each of them has less than 2 billion assets, and, of course, they have, if I remember correctly, almost 8 billion in assets, but because this tax does not count for the whole group, we do not look at the owner, but at the individual companies, in the case of solutions applied to insurance companies, this owner will not pay anything. So I have prepared an amendment, thanks to which all this philosophy, which has been applied to loan companies, is also transferred to the insurance sector, where such links exist, there are a number of companies connected capitalally and personally, which may be subject to this tax. I also make an amendment clarifying the issue of the tax exemption in the cooperative bank. I think these are two important amendments that will significantly improve this law. So much for the amendments, but also let me refer to other debaters, my previous speakers. I am very pleased that the Senators of the Platform want to respond positively to the law on so-called. banking tax. We've waited eight years... It is very good that we have finally seen such Members who have brought in this law on banking tax and the government that supports this submission. Earlier, despite the appeals, we have not been able to work this out for eight years, but it is good that together, Senator Kleina, we have seen and a good majority of the parliament, and a good government, which brings us this tax, and a majority in the Senate, which, together with the Senators of the Civic Platform, I hope will pass this bill. With regard to the issue of usury and anti-Liquidity, it is a good thing that this House agrees that this is, above all, a harmful phenomenon from a social point of view. Besides being a mortal sin, weed is also a harmful phenomenon. Already the priest's complaint in his sermons spoke about usury and the devastating influence of this usury, comparing it to locusts: when loan sharks appear, they destroy like locusts. It is true, because of the activity of usury companies many Poles hide from Polish bailiffs. Suddenly, the Polish state is a partner of these loan sharks, because it helps them to enforce these loan shark interest, this loan shark debt. This is an incredible situation. In other countries of continental Europe, in Germany, in France, the loan shark catches the police, it's criminal... For many years there was a dam for usury activity, after all, I myself, ladies and gentlemen, contributed many years ago to the creation of the first anti-Liquiary Act, to the introduction of it. Donald Tusk was pointing his finger at me and saying, "He's the one who connected the PiS to the SLD on one thing." Right? This was the reason for many attacks on me in various media paid by these loan sharks. But when was that dam lifted? In 2011, then the cost limit for consumer loans was abolished, this 5% cost limit. That's when the rapid expansion of loan companies and their incredible expansion began. Which of the Members of the Civic Platform requested that this limit be deleted? I encourage the PO senators interested in this subject to find it in the transcripts. Finally, the question of whether the tax under discussion today should feed the budget, or should it go to the Banking Guarantee Fund, or should it be a contribution to the Banking Guarantee Fund? The Bank Guarantee Fund is well-designed, it both raises contributions and has the obligation of the banks to contribute to the call, and is also covered by the promise of support from the State Treasury in case all this is not enough. So there is absolutely no need to direct these tax measures there. But there is a need to channel the resources of this tax to an important social agenda After all, that is the purpose of this tax. So let the banks do something good for Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u391	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Tomasz Grodzki. You're welcome. [[I'm just gonna make some adjustments, 'cause I'd forget.]] Well, it's a good thing we remember.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u392	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! The Banking Tax Act assumes that everyone is perfect and that we will pay this tax. That's what they used to think. Marks and Engels, assuming they're all perfect and that we're going to build a utopian system. I hope that this view is not shared in this building or in this House. But my point is that the procedure for preparing this important bill It's important because she's really going to increase the revenue of the state, it's very fast again, not to say superficial. We don't even get a single text after the sejm amendments, we just get a text from the morning, that is, from the moment before the sejm votes. The Senate Rules of Procedure, which refer to 3 days before the sitting, etc., are not respected. And in the case of such a financially important, important bill, in my opinion, the devil is in the details. In those records that we had the opportunity to read, there are not enough safeguards to prevent this bill from being passed by. And already the entities are treated unevenly, some institutions that are euphemistically in financial difficulties are released. At the same time, we have no guarantee that the bankers will not find many ways to circumvent this law and that Instead of a positive effect by increasing revenue to the budget The banks will not be found to be loss-making. There's no such security. The second thing that raises our concerns is the burden. us, clients of banks and insurance institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the optimism of Senator Bierecki, there is evidence that this is already happening. As one of the voters writes, OC insurance, which everyone has to pay, from the 3 year old Opel Astra So not from some luxury car. It increased from PLN 490 to PLN 730. This is a very significant increase. But then the insurance companies will be able to claim that after the bill has been passed, they no longer raise their prices. Because they picked them up before... Unfortunately, I am afraid we will all bear the cost of this other useful tax. Therefore, I fear that the tax, which is supposed to help children from which they are to take money for the famous "500 plus ', will prove to be a missed tax. There are other ways to help children: from reducing VAT to food, clothing and textbooks through children's vouchers, not simply giving away money... I don't want to discuss it. When the troops of the Warsaw Pact invaded Czechoslovakia, there was such a joke among the highlanders that it was the biggest mistake of our Ministry of Foreign Trade. The Czechs ordered green socks, and we sent them red berets. That's how they laughed at Podhale. And hopefully we don't want to give money to the kids, and we're gonna take it away from the parents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u393	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Wach, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u394	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I listened with interest to the rapporteur's speech, as well as a series of answers to questions, so that from the Minister's side. I believe that this was an interesting part of the debate on this point. It draws attention to the relatively high level of the banking tax proposed in the law exceeding 0,4 percentage points. The Senator, rapporteur, assured us of a review of the effects of the introduction of this tax and the possibility of possible corrections. I was even more aware of the use of western countries' patterns, practices or legislation, including those of the European Union, in their speeches and answers to questions. The rapporteur referred to this in a rather concrete way, ten times. Individual senators in questions and answers also at least ten times referred to practices, to banking tax legislation in the countries of the European Union. The Minister referred to this twice, and there were about five in the discussion of these references. My point was that, in this one area, these countries are a model for us and we refer to these practices with full confidence, while in other cases, as in the case of the Education Act, we had fundamental doubts, treating them as unreasonable or even fools, who quite commonly apply the school obligation for children aged 6 years. I wondered why this is so, why there is such a discrepancy, that in some areas we are ready to acknowledge their rations and practices there, and in others we do not take this into account at all. The answer could be this: we do it selectively, we choose good changes, and the bad, false ones, we reject. It's just that it's a completely subjective point of view. I don't agree with him. I would propose that in the future, referring to the Western countries, we treat them as pragmatic countries, i.e. countries with a lower level of ideologicalisation of discussions and with more experience in various areas, which is not only their merit. That's the credit. Also history, it is due to the fact that most of them went through the war more gently and actually did not have a period of socialist economy, socialist state, etc. So my appeal arose from these two debates, and my conclusion is that we should, sometimes referring to these experiences, treat it with greater distance and more fairness, and not just as we are subjectively comfortable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u395	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka and Senator Józef Łyczak made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Kazimierz Wind, Senator Przemysław Terminski, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, Senator Tadeusz Romanczuk and Senator Krzysztof Mróz. I'm closing... [[Mr. Marshal, I didn't file a motion.]] [[What's my name?]] Did I mention your name? [[Yes. And I didn't apply.]] Well, I'm sorry, it's not... [[What's my name?]] It was, well, I can say it again. Well, I repeat: Kazimierz Kleina, Przemysław Terminski, Grzegorz Bierecki, Tadeusz Romanczuk and Krzysztof Mróz. Right? [[Voice from the room: It's okay.]] It's okay. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Konrad Raczkowski: No.]] No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I ask the senator to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u396	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, communications. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Culture and Media on the review of the Act amending the Act on Radiophony and Television, Senate Printing No. 66, Seym Printing No. 158 and 161, will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in the Senate's session in room No. 176. The joint meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on the system of education and certain other laws will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the review of the Law on the amendment of the Civil Service Act and some other laws will take place today, 15 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of applications submitted at the seventh Senate meeting to the Act on Tax on Certain Financial Institutions, Senate Printing No.62, will take place 30 minutes after the announcement of a break in Senate sitting in room 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-30-senat-07-1.u397	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 8:00 p.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 01 minutes 28]]
