ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u1	Resume session. I would like to call Mrs Agatha Borowiec and Mrs Małgorzata Golińska to the secretaries of today's proceedings. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Ms Agata Borowiec. I ask the appointed Members of the Secretaries to take their seats at the Presidential table. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs - h.m. 9.30 a.m., - Education, Science and Youth - hour 10, Communication on the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - The Members' Team for the New Constitution - at 5 p.m. 9, - Parliamentary Sports Team - hour 11, - Parliamentary Group of Members and Sympathists of Catholic Action, the Movement of Light-Life and the Association of Catholic Families - hour. 12.30.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u3	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws (print No 115). I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On the basis of the article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 and on the basis of Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm Members shall submit a draft law amending the Law on the departments of government and certain other laws. The aim of the project is above all to achieve three objectives. Namely, ordering the competence of the Minister responsible for IT by redefining the scope of the section: Computerisation in the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration. Second, adapting the provisions to the amendments introduced by the Law of 19 November 2015 on the amendment of the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws. According to Art. 1 points 11 and 12 above. Laws from Government Administration: Communications have been excluded from telecommunications cases which have been included in the Government Administration Department: Computerization. Thirdly, the aim of this amendment is to transfer the competence of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs with regard to certain state registers to the Minister responsible for Information Technology. We are convinced that as a result of these three objectives of the revision of the law, the Ministry of Digitalization will be able to function efficiently and citizens will be able to expect the emergence of modern e-services. In the case of the first objective of the amendment proposed in the Government Administration Departments Act, IT is primarily due to the need to organise the competence of the competent Minister for Information Technology. The proposal also amends the Personal Data Protection Act in connection with a clear indication of these issues for the first time in the Government Administration Departments Act and assigns them to the Minister responsible for IT. Further amendments will consist of the transfer from the Internal Affairs Unit of matters related to state registers, PESEL, the Register of Personal Evidence, the Civil Sanu Register, the Central Registration of issued and cancelled Passport Documents and the records of vehicles, drivers and car park card holders. As regards the second objective, which I mentioned earlier, the amendments require legislation which, by pointing out the Minister responsible for communications, concerns telecommunications matters, i.e. all that has so far been related to the Minister of Infrastructure, and which concerns telecommunications, will be at the Ministry of Information Technology, except, of course, post surveillance. The third objective I mentioned earlier was this amendment. In the draft amendment of these provisions, which, by referring to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, refer to the task of conducting, developing, shaping state policies in the field of central vehicle and driver registers, PESEL, identity cards, passport documents issued and cancelled and the civil status register. In the draft submitted for the provisions relating to the competence of the Minister for Home Affairs, covering only the above mentioned. the case, it is proposed to indicate the Minister responsible for IT. Ladies and gentlemen! Probably wider questions and reasons today will be available at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, including the replies of the Ministers of Administration and Home Affairs and Ministers of Information Technology. In principle, it is necessary to carry out this amendment so that work on the new Ministry of Information Technology can be started efficiently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u5	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Bogdan Rzonca, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to Mr Czartoryski's speech, I would like to point out that he meant, of course, the Ministry of Digitalization, not IT. In fact, a whole range of IT tasks are now being transferred to the new Ministry of Information Technology. This is really a very important law, because not only do they have competence, but people will be transferred to this new ministry and money will be transferred. This operation therefore requires our special attention. Therefore, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, we are in favour of this project, of course, in favour of directing it to further seismic work. In fact, this project is very important, for example, because of the functioning of central registers. These are extremely important resources concerning e.g. ID cards, passports, car registers or drivers, including foreigners. All these tasks, these resources go to the new Ministry of Digitalization, where they will be made available to other entities wishing to use these resources. The project therefore concerns the exclusion and transfer of communications to the Ministry of Information Technology and these state registers from the Ministry of Internal Affairs - the Minister responsible for IT, i.e. the Ministry of Digitalization. The three objectives of the project have just been widely discussed. I would therefore like to point out that PESEL registers, the Register of Civil Status, the Register of Personal Evidence, the Central Register of issued and invalid Passport Documents, the Central Register of Vehicles and the Central Register of Drivers are really basic collections of personal data about citizens and foreigners permanently associated with the country. From now on, actually from the moment we adopt these changes in the law on amending the law on administrative departments, this information will be made available - I hope professionally - just by the Ministry of Digitalization. I think that this broad justification and the introduction made by Mr Czartoryski causes me not to repeat the detailed information that has been made. The club, as I said, is in favour of further work. We would like to draw attention to the very important changes that are taking place on the basis of these changes introduced by the Print Act No 115. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u7	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the floor of Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Parliamentary Club Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In preparing for today's talk, I read about a phenomenon that fits into today's situation, which is: deja vu, or the feeling that such a situation has already been experienced in the nearest indefinite time. And most importantly, you had the conviction that this situation was impossible. But this situation is happening again in this Chamber today, and unfortunately it is impossible in this House to become even a norm or a daily one. Ladies and gentlemen! It is 16 November 2015 and a parliamentary bill on amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws is being proceded. This project enters the Sejm on November 16th, the first reading, the second reading, the third reading takes place in a very short time. [[That's not true.]] According to the Member of the applicant, the necessary amendments are made to this law so that the government can act normally, as it has established in its programme. [[Third reading...]] We have also been assured that the project is well prepared and that its urgent procedure is due to the need for the smooth functioning of the new ministries. Yes, sir, this is what happened on 16 November. And as long as we agreed... [[Voice from the room: December.]] It was November, it was the first reading of the bill. While we agreed with the need for the necessary changes, we have never agreed to this House's mode of work, which has become the norm. But that's what happens. Today it is 17 December, and 3 days ago - 14 December again affects the Parliament's draft law on amending the Act on Government Administration activities and some other laws. Yes, this time we have 3 days to get acquainted with this project and prepare to work on it. Only this time we do not make changes in six other laws, we only modernise the provisions in 34 different laws. This ubiquitous record appears on the occasion of the parliamentary projects prepared by the Office for Sejm Analysis: urgent mode, or as today, in the case of today's project is written: very urgent mode. There is and will not be our agreement to proceed in this House with this law. There is no consent to mediocreness, there is no permission to prepare quickly and on the knees of parliamentary projects and to prove that righteousness, chaos and messyness, all of this country is replaced by a slogan: a good change. This password is duplicated at every opportunity, even without an opportunity. It's changed by all sorts of cases. And we're really asking you today, and we're still waiting, and we're asking you to show us this good change. Because since the beginning of this term we have received no information, no good change which you have promised since the beginning of this term and which, as you say, you have prepared. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u9	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I was honoured to present my opinion on behalf of the Kukiz Club15 on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws, print No 115. High Izbo! The project affects changes in more than 30 laws from various fields, from defence to banking law. Here my predecessor told the truth, she said about the mess he was having with you, because for 8 years in Poland we had so many issues in the IT system, which today did not find the settlement. The more computerization was made, the more bureaucracy, the more computerization, the more messy, instead of improving - queues and nuisance. I think this is the right direction to make certain databases, such as PESEL, the Register of Personal Evidence, the Register of Civil Status, the Central Register of issued and invalid Passport Documents, vehicle records, driver records, parking card holders' records, find one host. The purpose of the Act is to organise the competence of the Minister responsible and here the person of the Minister Anna Streżyńska from the new Ministry of Digitalization is in our opinion a guarantee that the proposed changes are correct and will be - attention - carried out in a professional manner. It is very important which person is to do this and which person guarantees these changes. There is no doubt that we must pay close attention to cybersecurity issues and improve coordination at government level on personal data protection issues. There are new challenges ahead, such as building a digital single market. The computerisation of administrative activities is ongoing on the basis of large-scale registers. In our opinion, Minister Anna Streżyńska is the right person in the right place at the Ministry of Digital Affairs. I believe and believe that, so far, she has been able to sort out a lot of telecommunication issues, manage this challenge and do it professionally. Therefore, Kukiz15 supports the proposed parliamentary bill amending the Government Departments Act and some other laws, print No 115. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u11	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mirosław Pampuch, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u12	Mr. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I took part in the honour of presenting the position of the Poselski Club in relation to the draft law amending the law on government departments and some other laws, print no. 115. Once again, we are dealing with a bill by Members who should be a government project and should be subject to proper agreements and consultations, including with the local government, because the keeping of state registers is a government task commissioned by these entities to run. The urgency in which this project is subject to investigation is also unacceptable. This has nothing to do with the principle of correct legislation and my previous speakers have also spoken about it. Going to the point. In the justification for the project, the Members of the applicant indicate the objectives of the project, i.e. ordering the competence of the Minister responsible for IT, adapting the provisions to the amendments introduced by the Law amending the Government Administrations Act of November, but also transferring the competence of the Minister responsible for Home Affairs with regard to certain state registers to the Minister responsible for IT. Hence, it is surprising to see the amendment of the Road Traffic Law, which allows the Minister of Home Affairs, without a decision or written request, full access to the citizens' data resulting from the central vehicle register and from the central register of drivers, and this is when the same data is made available from the records for the Police, Border Guard is made available after the decision has been taken. Similarly, in the Act on Personal Evidence, the Minister for Home Affairs receives, without the need to obtain the appropriate decision of the Minister for Computerization, full, uncontrolled access to the Register of Personal Evidence. Similarly, the amendment of the Civil Records Act provides the Minister for Home Affairs with full access to the PESEL register. In addition to changes that are indeed sequencing, major changes that may affect civil rights and freedoms are being smuggled in. The question arises as to whether these changes will not constitute a field of abuse or, in accepting these changes, we do not open a kind of box of Pandora, creating the possibility of uncontrolled surveillance of Poles and Poles. The answer to all these questions of the Posel Club The modern one counts during the work on this project in the committee responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u13	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Sosnowski, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u14	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The amendments introduced by the Law of 19 November 2015 amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws require substantially additional changes due to the transfer of competences allocated to the former Minister for Home Affairs to the activities of another Minister. This is the Minister responsible for IT. The amendments proposed in this Act are dictated inter alia. increasing the risks to ICT systems and the lack of a coordinating body at government level for the protection of personal data. It is therefore appropriate to propose an amendment to the Act of 29 August 1997 concerning personal data. Hence further amendments to the transfer from the Department: Internal Affairs, Cases related to the PESEL Register, the Register of Civil Status, the Register of Personal Evidence and the Registration of Passport Documents issued and cancelled. There is also a central record of drivers, which is no less important. The amendments therefore require those provisions of the laws which point to the Minister responsible for telecommunications communications. The amendment of the Telecommunication Law of 16 July 2004 is particularly evident. It is in this case that the draft law emphasises the supervision of the activities of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. The project lists 15 laws subject to amendment in its available section. Due to the limited speaking time, I will mention some of the most important of them: the Border Guard Act, the Tax Control Act, the Emergency Status Act or, for example, the Code of Criminal Procedure of 6 June 1997. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, However, despite the delegation of a whole range of competences to the Minister responsible for IT, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will still remain the competent authority for issuing identity documents authorising the crossing of the state border. In addition, 19 laws must actually be amended and some changes will be orderly. In some cases, the amendments also concern the possibility for the Minister responsible for home affairs to have access to individual registers and records, which is best demonstrated, for example, by the amendment of the Law on Public Statistics or on the social security system. The amendment of the Act of 5 August 2010 on the protection of classified information deserves attention. This amendment will concern the functioning of secret law firms and cells processing classified information. In order to be able to arrange cases relating to the transfer of funds to the objectives under consideration, it is appropriate to implement the draft law as from 1 January 2016. High Seym! The Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party will not object to the need to amend the print submission no. 115. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u15	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that two Members have been written down for the questions. Please, if parliamentarians are interested in asking questions to make this entry in the secretariat. I'm setting time for questioning -- 1.5 minutes. You're welcome. The first speaker was Mr Sitarski, the Kukiz Poselski Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After reading the draft law on amending the law on government departments and some other laws, I would like to ask a question. In its current version, the Minister responsible for Communications oversees telecommunications and postal matters, and the UKE President is respectively a regulatory body in the field of the telecommunications and postal services market. In terms of saving and rationalising expenditure, e.g. because of the division of the Ministry of Administration and Digitalization, the authors of the project take into account the liquidation of the Office of Electronic Communications? Another question. Why did the original text delete: coordination of interoperability, in accordance with the previous Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 12 April 2012 on the National Interoperability Frameworks have been deleted? And to justify it. On p. 21 The concept of ordering the competence of the Minister responsible for IT is desirable. In view of the increased risks to ICT systems, cybersecurity issues and the lack of a coordinating body at government level should be identified. The number of public, local, private and other entities collecting personal data of citizens normally exceeds common sense at the moment. How can you guarantee that such a super centre can handle it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the challenge of protecting personal data? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u17	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about unlimited access, which the amendment of the law gives the Minister of Home Affairs, Minister Błaszczak, to our personal data, to vehicle registration data, PESEL, personal evidence. Where does that come from? Why can the Minister, by opening a computer, typing any person, receive information from us, if the Border Guard and the police have to request such information? Is this about protecting us, or are there just some other hidden targets? And I'd ask you to answer that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u19	Thank you very much. As there are no further questions, please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Digitalization of Minister Simon Ruman.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the parliamentary bill, I would like to say first of all that this project was not the subject of the government's work, which is why there is no government position on this project. I can present the position of Minister of Digitization in relation to the submitted project. The project, as has already been said, brings the situation between ministers, between ministries in the Government Departments Act, and indeed the project is a consequence of a large part of the project submitted in November, as you said. This means the basic change that has taken place - the department: Communications has been separated and telecommunications cases have been sent to our Ministry, to the Minister responsible for IT, and the mail cases together with the department: Communications have been sent to the Minister of Infrastructure. Here in the parliamentary project is a review of the laws and this change in those laws, where the Minister of Communications was designated for telecommunications matters... We're transferring these tasks to the Minister of Computerization. Indeed, this required a review of a number of laws, hence the large number of laws that you have spoken about, because I understand that the parliamentary project has changed this at the level of the Law on Departments in November, and at the level of the various substantive laws it has already changed in this project. As for the questions that have been raised, there is no idea of building a supercentre in the field of personal data; there is only a transfer, again, of the tasks of the Minister for Public Administration, who in the Data Protection Act at the moment is the competent minister, the Minister for Information Technology, that is, here is the change of the minister responsible. Apart from the fact that we are changing the competent minister, there is no building of any new body, no new data protection entities, which is the way it has been so far. The minister is changing, but we still have GIODO, which is the main body in this area. With regard to cybersecurity issues, which have also been addressed, in fact at the moment none of the ministers has this task assigned to them in the Government Departments Act. If this is the decision of the High House, this task will be assigned to the Minister responsible for IT, which is really going to mean for us to create a new department in the Ministry, governing this subject again, because, as I say, at the moment, this task is not directly assigned to any of the ministers. I think I referred to the issues that were raised. The Ministry of Digital Affairs has a positive opinion on the draft law and we will continue to take part in the work on this project in committees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u21	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, representative of the applicants, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I will answer Mr Rosa's questions and, in principle, the club speech by Mr Mirosław Pampuch from Modern, as well as the question by Mrs Monica Rosa, also from Modern, concerning this access. You presented it so graphically: here is a specific minister, named and by name, sits down to his computer, probably at breakfast, reaching out to all the personal data of every citizen in Poland and doing what he wants with them. Well, ladies and gentlemen, there seems to be a misunderstanding on your part, because access to personal data for the Minister of Home Affairs is not increasing to any extent. That's one thing. Secondly, of course there are certain procedures for this, and it is not that one or another minister from his personal computer downloads the personal data of every citizen as he wishes and whenever he wishes. It was very graphic of what you said, but that reality doesn't exist. There are certain procedures, and we will soon have, at the beginning of the year, an away meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, at which all these questions concerning the way personal data is made available, the persons entitled to access personal data, as well as the technical and legal arrangements for the protection of personal data, the committee will be able to get acquainted. I cordially invite you and assure you that it is not so, that such, and not another, by your name and by the name of the minister mentioned, will now have unlimited access to personal data. Minister Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska... [[Voice from the room: Prime Minister.]] ...she was talking about ways... In fact, you did not refer to this draft law, but you were talking about a certain way, some barbaric way of proceding the draft laws introduced by Members in this parliamentary term, comparing it with some, as you described it, culture, probably much higher, of proceeding over projects in the previous term of the Sejm or during the functioning of the government, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. Well, ma'am, you just put us in a position... I'm telling you, you quoted this November 16th. Well, if you'd like to, because I have listened silently to your speech, to accept the information that you have, in a few cases that I know for sure and to which I can refer, and probably there are a lot more of them, left the legislative work in such a state that I was ashamed to quote the official position of the social partners, such as. local governments, in relation to your bill projects for several years. Since you've been talking so critically about this project here that it's some kind of drop-off in the last minute before the new year, I'd like to quote the most recent, November, speech of the Polish Districts Association. After all, most of the old folks aren't from Law and Justice, they're from Platform and PSL. Here is what the Polish counties write in their official position sent to parliament and government in November: It is unacceptable that the three-year work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in which the self-government party was not involved, ends with a mass drop of dozens of draft regulations, none of which gives the opportunity to accept without amendments. One part, another part: the starosts, the biggest beneficiaries of the changes were left out in the work, arrangements or consultations on the occasion of the amendment of the laws. Another part: citizens are not interested in the issue of non-cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the rest of the actors who are simply doomed to do so. Speaking of which... And another passage: Returning to the number of dozens of pieces of material presented called draft regulations, it draws attention to their poor level of substance. Their poor level of substance. This also shows a lack of faith in the success of the projects. The proverbial dot over the "and" - another part - is the material sent by the Ministry of the Interior on 28 October this year. to all seniors with dedication: please read. And so on, and so on. But at least this reading is devoid of substance. So what's the point, ladies and gentlemen, that the work lasted three years, since it was conducted with such a culture? And now there's a situation that we're trying to get the work of the various ministries to normally start from the new year. With regard to Mr Sitarski's questions on specific solutions to the bill, I understand that we will be able to answer these questions precisely - there were questions about costs - precise questions about this project, we will be able to count on this response from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Digitalization when considering this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u23	Thank you very much, sir. In order to correct Mr Pampuch, yes? The Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, if the Minister of Computerization were to remain responsible for supervising this data, it would be all right. On the other hand, he said that our doubts are unfounded because there are certain procedures for making these data available to the Minister of Home Affairs. Well, I'm just giving you one example. In the Law on Road Traffic in Article. 12 paragraph shall be inserted. 2a: Data or information collected in the records shall also be made available to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs for the purpose of carrying out his statutory tasks by means of data transmission devices without having to submit a written request. And another paragraph added: the decision referred to in paragraph. 7, does not appear in the case referred to in paragraph. 2a. So there are no procedures to protect citizens' data against the unauthorised access of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u25	Thank you, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law on the amendment of the law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws, contained in print No 115, to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the Parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Civil Service Act and some other laws (Print No 119). I ask the applicant's representative, Małgorzata Wassermann, to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to provide a justification for the draft law amending the Civil Service Act. Well, according to the article. 153 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland in order to ensure the professional, reliable, impartial and politically neutral performance of the tasks of the State in government offices operates a corps of civil servants. Under the Civil Service Act, members of the Civil Service Corps are employed under a contract of employment - these are civil servants - and persons employed on the basis of appointment, i.e. civil servants. Employment in civil service, including higher civil service posts, shall be carried out by means of open and competitive recruitment. The practice of applying the Civil Service Act points to many lengthy and inefficient recruitment procedures, which led to delays in filling vacant posts. This phenomenon is particularly undesirable in the case of higher civil service positions, which are particularly related to the implementation of government policies and to ensuring efficient administration and management of human resources. In view of the importance and scope of the tasks carried out in higher civil service positions and the need to ensure the smooth functioning of the civil service carrying out the government's activities, it is proposed that the recruitment of: the Director-General of the Office, the Head of the Department or equivalent in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister's Office, the Office serving the Chairman of the Committee, the Office of the Central Authority of Government Administration and the Head of the Department or Equivalent Cell, as well as the alternates of these persons, and other persons listed in the Act, be carried out in a flexible, less formal manner, as appointed. The placing of higher posts in the civil service will take place by means of the appointment of the competent authorities. This will allow for a smooth employment in higher posts in the civil service of people who meet the requirements provided for these posts, while having education, skills and predispositions adapted to the current needs of the office. The Director-General of the Office shall grant unpaid leave to a civil servant and a civil servant who has been appointed to a higher post in the civil service. In the project, we propose that seniors in the civil service should not be covered by the system of periodic evaluations. It is proposed that the remuneration of seniors in the civil service should consist of the basic salary, the functional allowance and the multiannual work allowance, the basic salary and the functional allowance being determined using the multipliers of the basic amount laid down in the Budget Act. Those in higher positions in the civil service will be able to participate in training, but they will not be provided with an individual professional development programme. As is the case under the Civil Service Act in force, a person holding higher positions in the civil service will be subject to disciplinary responsibility. According to the project, seniors in the civil service will continue to be members of the civil service corps. This means that the provisions of the Civil Service Act addressed to the members of the corps will also apply to persons holding higher positions in the civil service. Accordingly, other provisions addressed not only to civil servants and workers have also been amended accordingly. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: In addition, the proposed proposal provides for the possibility of appointment as Head of Civil Service and his alternate non-Civilian Service Officers. The appointment and cancellation of the Head of Service may take place at any time. The proposal proposes the abolition of the Civil Service Council, which will include: has resulted in simplification of the appointment and dismissal of the Head of Civil Service and the appointment of the Deputy Head of Service. In connection with the abolition of the Civil Service Council, as we also propose, it is necessary to amend the Law on Government Administrations. At the same time, it is proposed to amend the Foreign Service Act in order to ensure consistency of the solutions contained in this Law with the proposed amendments in the Civil Service Act. The proposed law provides for transitional provisions. It is proposed that the employment relationship with persons working on the date of entry into force of the Act should expire 30 days after the date of entry into force of the Act, if they do not propose new conditions for remuneration or employment or if these new conditions are not adopted. At the same time, according to the draft, the provisions on the expiry of the employment relationship referred to above will not apply to appointed civil servants, i.e. that transitional provision shall not apply to officials to whom the provisions of Article shall apply. 5 Civil Service Act on the change and cessation of employment in civil service. In the event of termination of the employment relationship or termination, the cash check provided for the employees with whom the employment relationship is terminated due to the liquidation of the office shall be payable. In this case, Article will apply. 8 Act on special rules for the termination of employment relationships with employees for reasons not affecting employees. In accordance with these provisions, she will be entitled to a cash check. The law clearly defines how high it is. The provisions of the Labour Code will apply when determining the period of employment. The monetary clearance shall be determined in accordance with the rules applicable to the calculation of the monetary equivalent for vacation leave. In addition, the amount of payment will not be able to exceed the amount of 15 times the minimum wage for work determined on the basis of the separate provisions in force on the day of termination of employment. It is proposed that procedures for recruitment for higher civil service posts initiated on the basis of existing legislation and not completed until the date of entry into force of the Act be terminated, i.e. so that they are not continued. Given that the draft law will enter into force during the period when interim evaluations are carried out, it is proposed that periodic evaluations not completed until the date of entry into force of the law be completed on the basis of the existing rules. This is particularly important for civil servants, since obtaining a positive interim evaluation allows them to be granted another degree of service and, consequently, a higher civil service allowance for their degree. It is proposed that the draft law should enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. This project does not require notification in accordance with the procedure laid down in the rules on the functioning of the national system of notification of standards and acts. The subject matter of the draft regulation is not covered by European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u27	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Artur Górski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present to you and your fellow Members the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law on the amendment of the Civil Service Act, print 119, which tidys and corrects issues related to government administration. It's a small novel that eliminates the main shortcomings of the system. The Civil Service Act is an important law, one of the laws essential to the functioning of the State. It is the key to the effective and efficient functioning of the government, which wants to implement its programme. The government must rely on people who will not only be competent and experienced, but will also identify with government policies who will not blindly pursue our policy, but will only make tasks and decisions with understanding and ideal identification. The previous government wanted to break the spine of the government administration. I'm sure you'll remember the famous employment rationalisation bill, commonly referred to as the minus 10% law. which was to automatically reduce the administration, including appointed officials, virtually without any criteria. It was questioned by the Constitutional Tribunal and was accused, but before it happened, it did a lot of harm and a lot of damage to the administration. Instead of bringing media success to the Civic Platform, it has brought an image disaster. It was the actual destruction of the administration, which led to the demotivation of officials. This discouragement continues to a large extent, unfortunately, until today. We don't want to revolutionize staff, we don't want to hurt anybody, but we need to be sure that the ambitious tasks we're going to put in front of the civilian service will be properly, effectively done. We don't want to hurt anybody, but we need to make sure that the ambitious tasks that we put in front of the civilian service are properly, effectively carried out. We don't want a self-enclosing, rigid, politically, quote, concrete administration soaked in old habits. We want a dynamic, modern, challenging, creative and courageous administration responsible for human and project management. We want to introduce management elements into the civil service, competitive ones. [[Voice from the Chamber: No qualification requirements.]] To some extent, we are leaving the competition procedure. We know from your practice that in the case of directors-general such proceedings lasted up to several months and were often fictional. And what happened when the contest was won by a candidate who wasn't supposed to win or for some reason was uncomfortable, didn't fit? At that time, you very often canceled such a competition to re-enact it without surprises. It was your almost daily practice, the practice of the Civic Platform government. And in this case we had a lot of signals from people who took part in such competitions. [[Law and Justice.]] Moreover, the policies of stagnation and omissions of the previous government, the lack of care for the members of the corps and incentives for their development have led us to have only 7% after many years. officials appointed. According to experts, for the administration to function efficiently and professionally, so that this blood circulation of the country will function properly... [[It's like the PRL.]] ...that there would be so-called. HR replacement and guarantee of continuity and stability, it takes about 15-20% officials appointed, this elite administration. The independence of the government of the Civic Platform forced us to prepare this bill. You're the ones who pushed us into this revision of your short-sighted policy. As regards the new rules for recruitment for higher positions in the civil service, we have decided on a simple and more flexible solution that will pave and facilitate quick, efficient recruitment for higher posts in the civil service. We leave recruitment open and competitive to mid-management positions, and in the case of the cast of higher posts in the civil service we want to introduce an institution of appointment by the competent authorities, which may also withdraw from these posts if the person does not prove himself or if he/she carries out the project to which he/she was employed. Please note that we are not narrowing the civil service, but, on the contrary, we are extending it to persons appointed outside the government administration, who will have to meet strict criteria for specific jobs each time. These are high requirements. What else is important in this novel? The project proposes that the remuneration of seniors in the civil service should consist of the basic salary provided for the occupied job, the functional allowance and the allowance for the long-term work in the civil service. [[To fidelity.]] For appointed officials, it is envisaged that the service allowance may be increased and the service allowance increased after receiving two consecutive highest positive assessments in the interim evaluation. It is important that there is a record that a further degree of service can be obtained after two years, if any, and I quote: a reasoned request from a direct superior to grant another degree of service to a civil servant. End of quote. In this way, the financial promotion obtained by the official is not automatic and, on the other hand, the direct superior is best placed to assess the performance of the subordinate's work. We want to treat the members of the corps fairly as honest, competent and conscientious work. But at the same time, we must take into account the budgetary circumstances and the public opinion that demands a cost-effective administration. So-called. Thirteen remain, as is apparent from the general provisions. Finally, a few words about a new approach to the head of civil service. This new approach is reflected in two aspects. Firstly, the novel states that the Prime Minister shall appoint and dismiss the Head of Civil Service in accordance with his will, without time limits or other formal restrictions, including without requiring the opinion of the Civil Service Council. In fact, this sovereign prerogatives of the Prime Minister should not be restricted by anything, even symbolically, since the basis for cooperation between the Prime Minister and the Head of Civil Service must be trust. The loss of confidence should be a sufficient reason for the Prime Minister to dismiss the Head of Civil Service. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That was perfectly understood by the last head of civil service who resigned on Wednesday. [[Was she supposed to wait for an appeal?]] Secondly, the requirement that the Head of Civil Service be appointed is waived. Undoubtedly, the requirement to be an appointed official limits the possibility for the Prime Minister to choose the best candidate whom the Head of Government would like to entrust with the task of directing civil service. And I've already told you how few civil servants we have appointed in civil service thanks to your policies. [[Something terrible.]] Thanks to your politics. Let us remember that the head of civil service is more than just another official, it is an extension of the Prime Minister's power as a constitutional civilian superior, but it is different from the Prime Minister that he cannot be a member of a political party. [[Since yesterday.]] When the criterion of apoliticity has always been a fiction in the release of the Civic Platform, so the criterion of apartition in our governments will be a fact. [[Great.]] This solution is very important and necessary in this position... [[Since yesterday.]] ...also taking into account its tradition, which is already established and rooted in the public and social consciousness. To sum up, we are convinced that the solutions proposed in this project will benefit the state and citizens, modernise the administration, recreate its staff and provide new, valuable, qualified workers who will carry out their tasks professionally and reliably. Of course, law and justice support this project. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u29	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Wójcik, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the Civil Service Act prepared by Law and Justice leads to political cleansing in the administration. Within 30 days of the entry into force of the Act, the employment relationship will be terminated with the most experienced civil servants. The purge will concern even several thousand Polish officials, the most experienced officials, who have gained their powers in public administration often for many years. The seats of these dismissed officials will be occupied by persons from whom no qualifications are required - apart from what the rapporteur said here - that they will be available to implement government policies. The state, when presenting this law, refers to the fact that higher-ranking officials can block your reforms. This is a complete fraud on your part because you have not yet proposed any reform. Nobody has ever tried to make it difficult for you to make any reforms. You start by eliminating potential enemies - for the first weeks of this term you have fought the Constitutional Tribunal, today you are disassembling civil service. The changes you have proposed will actually ruin civil service in Poland. The paths of promotion will be interrupted, the trust of officials in the state will be destroyed. Work in the civil service was supposed to be a guarantee of stability. It turns out that there is no longer a guarantee of stability here, since within 30 days every office can actually be released - the official who served the Republic for many years has taken up this task, seeking a position in the civil service. Ultimately, citizens will pay for the implementation of this law because the quality of public administration's work will deteriorate. This quality of work These are not empty words, because the service of citizens in offices will deteriorate, the preparation of administrative decisions, which are prepared by officials. Therefore, these decisions will often be very random, often citizens, when they try to settle a case, will be treated chronically, because people from your nominations will not have the necessary experience to serve these citizens. Mr Artur Górski, a man whom I know well and very much appreciate, because we have worked together so far in Parliamentary committees, talks about the apoliticality of the new officials appointed by the states. Well, this apoliticality is best seen when you are making regulations related to the appointment of a civil servant. Up to now, the law required such a person to be partyless. not only when he became head of the civil service - he could not be a member of the political party for five years back, counting from the point at which he was appointed, in order to actually guarantee the unbridledness and not the unbridled form of resignation from the party card at the time of appointment. It is through the appointment of the Head of Civil Service that it is best to see how you approach the guarantee of non-partisanity. I am afraid that the officials who will be appointed will simply postpone their party cards on the date of their appointment, continuing to fulfil their party commitments by fulfilling all that the State will oblige them to do when they are called to these positions. Unfortunately, such office officials will replace the most experienced civil servants, who have been built in Poland for many years. Moreover, civil servants did not build the rule of the Civic Platform. All subsequent governments in the free Republic have built civil service as a bloodstream of administration for many years, as something to guarantee the smooth performance of public tasks, efficient governance in Poland. Unfortunately, you are destroying civil service in Poland. That's why, marshal, I'm filing a motion to reject the project at first reading. The Civic Platform Club will split its vote. Ms Małgorzata Janyska will continue her speech in a moment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u31	Thank you very much, sir. In that case, please take the floor of Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The change at the heights of power should not affect the members of the civil service corps. This is a principle respected in a well-established and fair, not in a fake democracy. In our present reality, unfortunately, I have the impression that the principles of a democratic rule of law are beginning to be pretended by the rulers. Such a proposal follows our short parliamentary practice in this term of office, but also after an analysis of the project we are discussing here concerning the amendment of the Civil Service Act No 119. Ladies and gentlemen! A member of the Law and Justice Club said it was a small novel. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a small novel, this is another bill from the package to complete the absoluteism of power. This time it's an attack on civilian service. Mr Wójcik presented, in turn, the arguments which led to this conclusion. High Seym! This is another bill that's probably against the constitution. Art. 153 of the Constitution states that in order to ensure the professional, reliable, impartial and politically neutral performance of the State's tasks in government offices, the civil service corps is operating. And yes, ladies and gentlemen, one at a time. Can it be considered that the professional performance of tasks is ensured if the requirements for administrative traineeships, including management positions, and thus management skills, and, therefore, for the organisation of administration and public finances are lifted? Can it be considered that work is ensured if competitive recruitment is abolished and vocations are introduced? Calls, from which, ladies and gentlemen, after 1990, we all wanted to leave because we remember this practice of the Polish People's Republic especially, which started in the local government when it comes to leaving this practice. We remember the appointments of secretaries and treasurers, which were de facto also political functions. As a result, in high civil service positions, people will be able to work for the first time in the administration today. Until now, the legislation for those who took up work for the first time has required that the preparatory service be carried out with an exam. For higher positions, of course, it also endures, because why should it be prepared and qualified persons. We have rolled the wheel, ladies and gentlemen, and we return to the most important criterion of promotion, which was in the Polish People's Republic, in state units in the times of the Polish People's Republic: mediocre, passive, but faithful. Another rule from the Constitution - honesty. Can this be called the amendments proposed by applicants if the system of periodic evaluations of senior civil servants is also abandoned? And there will be no individual professional development program for them, but, of course, for the other posts and yes. Finally, what Mr Wójcik has already said - impartial and politically neutral performance of the State's tasks. I will no longer repeat the fact that you are resigning from the requirement to join the party earlier in the five-year period, which was forbidden, but I will ask the question: Do you think - because today at the time of your appointment you propose that someone should not be a member of the party - do you think that, for example, the head of your Parliamentary Club Law and Justice resigned from party membership yesterday and from tomorrow will he be head of civil service from today? And who among you, apart from Law and Justice, will agree that this is apolitical? Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is known that it will not be apolitical because there is no possibility at all. Ladies and gentlemen! Civil Service Council, a body that is also proposed to abolish in the draft amendment to the Civil Service Act. I believe that this is another closing of the parliamentary opposition. Why? And because, as 15 members of the Civil Service Council, the President of the Council of Ministers hereby appoints, at the request of parliamentary clubs, all the parliamentary clubs, 7 members of the Council, seven members of the Council shall be clearly indicated, representing all parliamentary clubs, among Members, Senators or non-parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen, resigning from this means that the opposition will also have no control over the integrity, integrity and apoliticity of civil servants, the civil servant's chief and deputy, among other things. [[And so far, she's had an amazing one.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is also no financial impact on this parliamentary project. Of course, that is why this is a parliamentary project so that there is no consultation, so that there is no evaluation, so that there is no need to present financial consequences. But these effects will, of course, be, because they will be thousands of people who will need to pay their checks immediately after 30 days. Is that why, ladies and gentlemen, among other things, you have increased your budget deficit for the next year? These are the questions we know the answer to, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because she's a yes, but you're certainly not gonna answer that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u33	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u34	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased to present the position of the Modernist towards the parliamentary bill amending the Civil Service Act. The functioning of each country is based on an efficient, professional administration working under the direction of their political superiors. Civil service, we all know that, stabilizes the state. An eloquent example of this is Italy, known for its very frequent changes in government, but it is the stable administration that makes the country work. [[The largest debt in Europe.]] This draft law, which you are proposing, essentially eliminates this professional body of administration in offices, central administration and government dedicated to carrying out the tasks of the Polish State in favour of politically appointed officials. This applies in particular to officials appointed to higher posts. What is civilian service? It is nothing more than administrative staff, which in ministries, central offices work for the country, carrying out the tasks of the Polish state under the political direction of the heads of departments. A professional civilian service is one that will work under the current management, that is, your management, but also any others that will follow you. She will follow the instructions of her political bosses, of course within the limits set by law. You do not want such an administration, you do not want an apolitical administration, on the contrary, you want an administration appointed directly by politicians and politicians. Although Mr Jarosław Kaczyński announced in March 2003 the liquidation of political offices, I will remind you of this declaration, you want today in fact to extend political offices to all higher positions in the civil service, because those appointed to these posts will be nothing other than those who are very similar to those working in political offices. I have long wondered what the purpose is, the motivation of this regulation, what your purpose is. The answer is clear: you do not want the current administrative staff. You don't trust this frame, you don't think it can be useful, helpful in implementing the Law and Justice programme, because it worked for the PO-PSL coalition before, and some of them earlier for the SLD or AWS. You believe that the Law and Justice Programme can only be implemented by the declared supporters of this party. You are mistaken because a professional administration could speed up the implementation of your programme as well as other programs and avoid many risks because they are experienced people. However, those appointed under the new law may put you at risk. They will expose not only the Law and Justice, but also the Republic of Poland to such a risk, and this is much more dangerous. I urge you to act in accordance with the principle: a good boss chooses good collaborators, and even better than him, not according to the principle which was already mentioned here: mediocre, passive, but faithful, which we remember from the Polish People's Republic. [[Applause]] The bill presented confirms my thesis and is also inconsistent with the constitution, in particular the article. Point 12 of Article 1 infringes. 153 constitutions dealing with reliable, impartial and, I stress, politically neutral performance of the State's tasks by civil service. In particular, those appointed to higher civil service positions will certainly not be characterised by such political neutrality. I recommend that you read the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2002 No 9, which showed that there was no constitutionality much less, closer to the so-called solution. persons appointed to executive positions as performing their duties. Your proposal goes much, much further. Similarly, there are huge doubts about the transitional provisions of this law, which propose that the employment relationship with those holding higher public positions should expire within 30 days of the entry into force of that law. This will cause, as the previous speakers rightly mentioned, the destabilisation of offices, not to mention the deprivation of acquired rights, and will cost the Polish state a great deal. It is not understandable in this law to create a third category of members of the civil service corps. I would remind you that so far they were civil servants and civil servants. This is where the third category of seniors in the civil service is created. The current article. The 6th Civil Service Act, which states that every citizen has the right to information about vacancies in civil service and recruitment is open and competitive, is directly emanating the principle of constitutional equal access to public service for all citizens. The limitation of this right only to certain positions by excluding management positions is prohibited in the context of this constitutional principle. According to Art. Point 1 (11) of the amendment to the Head of Civil Service and to a person who may take a high position in the civil service may be persons who have been punished by committees ruling on violations of public finance discipline. Will he be a good official of the person who has violated the discipline of public finances in the past? The answer is clear. It is also questionable to waive the condition that the Head of Civil Service has professional experience in public administration. Can a mining foreman be a person who's not a miner? Repeal of the Article 12 and Article 12 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 13 means the elimination of any restrictions on the removal of the Head of Civil Service, bringing this position closer to purely political management of state positions. It is also questionable to abandon the requirement of any professional experience in those who are to take up higher positions in the civil service. The objective of introducing another basis for a civil service employment relationship is also unclear. Next to the old ones - also the ratio of vocation. This applies to higher civil service posts. Finally, it raises fundamental doubts as to the withdrawal from open and competitive recruitment for higher positions in the civil service. This means that open and competitive recruitment with the constitutional principle of equal access to public service remains an obligation in relation to ordinary posts, but does not apply to higher positions, i.e. we have higher requirements for ordinary workers and lower requirements for those running the administration. Is this a good change? The project is shutting down the Civil Service Council. There has already been a speech on this subject, I just want to remind you that there was an opposition on this board, so it was very important whether there is an important body in the civil service so far. High Seym! On the date of adoption of this law, civil service in the Republic of Poland will be terminated. I'm filing a motion to reject this bill at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u35	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, because there is still time for the Modern Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm very fast, because I don't have much time left. I wanted to speak as a quarter-intelligent, because that is how Mr Artur Górski described the people sitting on the benches of our club, it is in Intrenet, so that one can check. Let me put it this way that this rest of my mind, which I have left, allows me to define your justification for this bill as psychic. How can we talk about depoliticisation of civil service when all the requirements that can be applied to the selection of the highest civil servants are deleted? Because I don't have much time, I wanted to ask. You release 1,600 people at once, these people lose their jobs after 30 days. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a question: Will you apply the solution that was in the 1980s, i.e. these people will be left in positions after signing the Loyalty with regard to Law and Justice? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u37	Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to address the honourable Members and honourable Members of the Law and Justice. After 8 years of mediocre governance of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, instead of taking care of the necessary reforms in Poland, you took care of filling well-paid posts. This is related to the inseparable Partyocracy principle of TKM - now... we. In the explanatory memorandum of this amendment, you rightly note that civil service is designed to carry out the tasks of the State in a professional, reliable, impartial and politically neutral manner. In the same justification, you will read the words by writing about positions in the civil service as related to the implementation of government policy, which is supposed to be an argument for manual filling of key posts. I'm moving on to concrete changes. From now on, the Head of Civil Service will not have to have practically any qualifications by removing the requirement of at least 5 years of managerial experience in government administration or at least 7 years of managerial experience in public finance units. The rhetorical question arises: Is your staff so narrow that you must eliminate such requirements? You want to introduce a fantasy of the civil servant's suite by abolishing the ban on party membership five years back from his choice. In the case of the Deputy Head of the Civil Service, you do not even bother with such fiction, introducing the possibility of choosing him also from among the members of the party. When you read this project, you might think that it would be appropriate to change the name from civil service to the service of political parties. If that's not enough, another change is the possibility of dismissing the Head of Service at any time, i.e. full control of the civilian service. It's still worse. The current provision that a higher post in the civil service is to be filled by means of an open and competitive recruitment to be filled by appointment is repealed, read: political allocation. There's one thing I can tell you here: don't be afraid of the competition. Healthy competition will certainly serve Poland and its citizens. For higher civil servants, the requirement to have appropriate professional experience has also been lifted. Those in these posts will no longer be subject to an interim evaluation or to compulsory preparatory services. Perhaps it will be easier and fairer for Poles to include in the bill another principle related to the partyocracy, namely passive, mediocre, but faithful. The draft law also introduces new rules for setting the level of remuneration and clearance. The latter will be immeasurable if the employment relationship with those currently serving higher civil servants is terminated within 30 days of the entry into force of the law. Unfortunately, the authors of the law failed to comply with the requirement of the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Section 2 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on the basis of which the justification for the project should include a financial statement. I don't know if it's an oversight of whether the financial consequences will be so grieved that you'd rather skip this aspect. However, we are not one of those who are merely criticizing without offering anything in return. If you want to fire the current civil servants, instead of replacing them as your own, lose weight on the state apparatus. As Frederick Bastiat wrote: If you want to create a new position, point to its usefulness. Show that what he gives the taxpayer is worth paying, but do not invoke as an argument the profits he brings to the official, his family and his surroundings. Don't tell me you're creating a new place of work. Unfortunately, this principle was not applied in Poland, which we see in the form of too large a state apparatus. We spend 7 billion a year on civil servants' salaries alone. By comparison, it is about 1/4 of the income from corporate tax. Worse still, the work of these people is reduced to a large extent to the inhibition of the Polish economy by enforcing unnecessary regulations. An example is that the establishment of the company in Poland lasts 30 days, and for comparison in Hungary - 5 days, in Slovenia - 6 days. However, a strong country is not one that imposes a bureaucratic muzzle on its citizens, but one that allows people to exploit their potential. That is why we need a deep deregulation of the economy. This will allow the administration to lose weight and give Poles a break from bureaucratic and fiscal oppression. As Kukuz's Posel Club15, we strongly hope that these, in our view, are not exactly the right solutions that the State is proposing, will help to reduce bureaucracy and employment in government administration, not just to exchange positions placed by the Civic Platform for positions filled by Law and Justice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u39	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mrs Andzelika Możdjanówska, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u40	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I read the project and listen to the justification, and I don't believe in the Himalayan peak of hypocrisy. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It was supposed to be a good change, and it was like a renovation with Mr. Jarek or Mr. Heńk's company, I think it was Mr. Jarek. As I'm about to prove, this bill is a complete bubble - corrected, powdered articles, cut out fragments, added new, mutually contradictory even with each other. Couldn't he really see through some lawyer who would correct those mistakes, Mrs President? But it's about to happen. Before the election, the Prime Minister said: We have laws ready, and in them concrete: 500 PLN per child, CIT tax for entrepreneurs 15% , medicines for free for seniors after age 75 and a minimum hourly rate of 12 PLN gross. Who among your messengers and your fellow Members has seen these laws? Nobody. Well, today we have only laws that apply to stools. First the Constitutional Tribunal and the insertion of its judges, now the civil service, in a moment the media. How much more do you need or how much more do you want to fill, ladies and gentlemen of law and justice, positions? Ladies and gentlemen! Let me refer in my speech only to a few points of the bill, the content of which we received graciously on Tuesday. Art. Point 11 (8). It is very good that you are calling for the abolition of the obligation to have managerial experience in the government administration for senior civil servants, but why are you removing the need for any kind of leadership experience for the head of civil service? We already had a 20-year-old Edmund Janniger, Minister Macierewicz's advisor at MON. I understand that after this amendment of this law, Minister Macierewicz would no longer have to dismiss his expert, little of it, he could become head of civil service. Art. Point 11 (9). So far, in order to maintain the apoliticality of the heads of civil service, which should in principle be apolitical, there was a 5-year withdrawal period, so that the person elected could not be a member of the party at the time of its election, but also 5 years back. In your proposal, this record is gone. So why write apoliticity? Madam President, if you wish to invoke this position of a man who will only submit a party card before choosing, would it not be easier to reject this provision of apoliticity completely? If it's a party officer, don't let him give up your precious ID. Change this law simply more courageously - I propose a permanent record that only a man of law and justice can be the head and deputy chief of civil service. Either you want to or you're scared - but your ideas for Poland are just powdering and pretending. And don't tell me you're doing this so you don't get disturbed by any of the laws, because I'm afraid you're gonna be playing like this with the Poles all the time. First the tribunal, now the civil servants, tomorrow the media, then the retirees, and finally all the Poles will interfere with your paranoia. I'm sorry to call it that, but that's the reality. Now let's see what's going on in the article. 53. You're repealing points 4 and 5. This time it does not apply to civil servants but to higher civil servants. Since PiS does not care about the requirement for candidates to have 3 years of working experience and one year's experience in a managerial position or 2 years' experience in a stand on their own. A management approach, Member? Who do you want to put in senior executive positions if they can't even fulfill their obligation to have two years of experience on their own? I appeal to all Poles who have at least 2 years of experience in their stand: Send your CV to the PiS. Help them, 'cause I'm scared who's gonna turn out to be the next DJ in MON or another ministry tomorrow. Today, the media can pick it up and publicize it - probably not tomorrow. And now the whole truth in the piss. What happened to Art? 54? There isn't. What are you gonna do to us? We already know. But let's see what the article that disappeared was about. It sounded exactly like this: Putting a higher post in the civil service takes place by means of open and competitive recruitment. So goodbye, transparency. She's supposed to be, and she won't be. As others ruled, you shouted out loud, "I want it to be clear!" And now that you're in charge, nobody's gonna look at your hands. How much nerve and deception does it take to count on Poles not to see it? Why don't you want to compete in management positions in the administration? If there are no better candidates in the market, why would you want to throw away those who manage well today? And if they're better at the market, let's name them, but why don't you want to do it transparently? I could do this point by point and point out the mistakes you made in this bill. But I will draw your attention to one more hit. You're removing the article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, which gave people with disabilities a chance. What did they do to you? What did they do to you? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is bullshit. At first, I asked him if he could see through it, but in fact, maybe he couldn't, because it's only been a few weeks, and you've already gotten offended at everyone and you've gotten in a fight with them. And we saw the powers of lawyers when, for example, we saw them. Mr Marek Ast had problems with the simple questions he had heard at the Constitutional Court. And to conclude, I'm going to refer again to the management approach. I do not understand why directors in offices should not have individual professional development programmes created or why they should be excluded from the system of periodic evaluations. Isn't it the kind of key employees that organizations most often try to develop and analyze, assess the effects of their work? Dear Member, who do you want to cast in these positions, so afraid that you are even so afraid to judge them yourself? You don't have lawyers - we already know that. You don't have candidates for directors, from this bill, we know now, but for God's sake, can't you ask someone who's the head of staff in any management company who can prepare, help you prepare a good bill? Let's sit together and prepare a really good project. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Elections! I will no longer repeat, of course, that this project destroys many years of building an apolitical civil service, that it is another element, a stage in reducing democracy. I'm not going to talk about it, because the recent events themselves clearly show that unfortunately the Law and Justice only pretends or doesn't understand what they're doing. But I don't know what's worse for Poland anymore. If this bill is voted out and entered into force, today the PiS, who has so revenged on bloodthirsty employers that they do not respect workers' rights, does the same in a much more insolent way, in order to replace their fellows with apolitical management staff in offices and ministries. Under the facade of the amendment of the law leads the action of the block exemption programme while avoiding, of course, the need to pay the checks. Employers, it's the PiS that teaches you how to celebrate the Labour Code. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Club of the Polish People's Party, I request that this bill be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u41	Thank you, Member. 13 members of parliament have joined the floor. If you are still in the Chamber, ladies and gentlemen... [[I'm still checking in.]] Then please add yourself to the list. I'm setting time for questioning -- 1.5 minutes. Please take the floor as the first Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Platform Club. There's no envoy. In that case, I ask the floor of Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I wanted to ask the question of how do you want to ensure the performance of a constitutional service that talks about impartiality, apoliticality in the performance of the tasks of the State, but I will no longer ask this question. It has already been asked many times. I am convinced, after reading your justification for this law, that you do not want to ensure this, so this question would be pointless. I will therefore ask for a special procedure, which not only in the case of this law you prefer, in the case of statutory changes of a systemic nature. This is a procedure that de facto does not allow careful and reflective preparation for the debate and reading of these proposals so that it allows for a meaningful discussion of such important changes. And I have to say, that's the question I was asking myself. I think this question is this way: Is this really such a new model of state philosophy, or superiority of discipline over reflection? It is no secret that the need, the high need for discipline is in close correlation with low alphabetization. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why don't you just save us the trouble of reading, thinking? Mr President introduced this principle, too, by saving the court's reflection. I just wanted to ask you if that's the case, and if it's not, I'd ask for arguments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u43	Thank you, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u44	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to ask the representatives of the Members of the applicant whether, in your opinion, this good change, which you are so eagerly proposing, is to dismantle another important institution - civil service, the spoiling of well-functioning solutions. I would also like to ask you whether you realise that you are doing harm to many decent people who, in the vast majority of cases, perform their duties in a substantive, factual and apolitical manner. Because how else can you say about a recipe that says that within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law, they may lose their jobs. I think you're aware that these people can be replaced by not necessarily top-flight specialists. These words have been mentioned here several times, because you rather want to replace these people with mediocre but faithful people. Because how else do you take note of the solution that you are proposing to eliminate the periodic evaluation of employees? This assessment was carried out by civil servants. To conclude, I would like to ask the Members of the applicants what the criteria for recruiting for vacant posts will be, and that these posts will be a lot, I am convinced of that. Wouldn't the only criterion be to belong to law and justice and party legitimacy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u45	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing the list of people voted in. In the meantime, Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The first sentence of the statement of reasons that you are referring to is to refer to Article. 153 constitutions in which it is written that the corps of civil servants are professional, reliable, impartial and apolitical officials. How hypocritical and cynical. You continue to write, ladies and gentlemen, that you need people to uncritically follow the government's instructions. For you, an open competitive competition is overly formalized, inefficient. You are depriving, ladies and gentlemen, the professional corps of officials of protection against political pressure. Ba, you're blowing up more institutions, areas of order and order. It's okay that you send 1,600 officials, professionals prepared to perform an official function in an apolitical, professional way. It is nothing that it will cost the state budget 30 million PLN. Ba, you've got those seats for sure. I would therefore like to ask the question: What really do you want to achieve? What will be the substantive effects of this good, in your recognition, change and where and when you will be able to submit applications for senior management positions in government offices? Perhaps the students of the last year of different courses will be interested in this, after all you do not need any [[♪ The bell ♪]] competences and qualifications. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u47	Please take the floor of Mr Mark Owl, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u48	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're after a month of rule of law and justice. I think it's enough time to take advantage of your own experience. The example of Edmund Janniger, quoted just now, is not the only one. The new Lesser Poland voivode Józef Pilch also entered the office with his Jedajam and after the first day of office in the interview given to LoveKrakow. pl on the question, how after the first day of office, he answered: "I have been hit by a great deal of knowledge. I'm tired and I have to schedule these tasks and then do them. Now phones, computers, officials. I can't control it right now, but it's nice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] Ladies and gentlemen, fear to think about what will happen after this law has been passed, as will the party chefs themselves enter the office. You can't run a political office on your own. And they will not change that word of Mr Górski, who said something about competent officials. He just forgot to add his own. I'm afraid to think about what's gonna happen. One thing is known - all people with the highest qualifications will be released within 30 days. And that's a shame, because I've had the opportunity to work with civil servants myself over the last 16 years, and I can tell you from my own experience how the professionalism of these people has increased. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're professionals and statemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Today you're going to dismantle the civil service. The civil service corps is the work of free Poland. A country you don't like so much that you decided to destroy it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u49	Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Maciejewski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u50	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Question to Mrs. Wassermann: Do you still believe in civil service? You're a lawyer. This is where the previous speakers, my previous speakers from PO and PSL spoke about competence, expertise, civil service. They forgot to tell me they made civil servants into family offices. Green power in offices and agencies [[Applause]] It's working, and it's doing fine. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] It's too bad you don't talk about it. It's too bad you don't talk about fictional competitions. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] The competitions are beautiful, but first they always asked if this contest was right and if I had a chance. Ladies and gentlemen, the party class has spoiled the offices. That's the truth. Today some are writing an excuse, others are trying to make a new setup. The truth is, every old official knows very well that civil service in this country does not exist. And that's what every clerk who does this black job will say, no matter who's in charge. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u51	Please take the floor of Mr Marcin Święcicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 160 years ago, a civil service was introduced in the United Kingdom to separate political activity from the activities of the administrative apparatus. The idea was that the administrative apparatus should consist of educated people, accepted in open recruitment, separated from politicians, employed not because of political protection, walks and knowledge, but on the basis of knowledge of law, procedures and good administration. Since these 150 years, this separation between administrative services and politics has been accepted by all properly democratic countries. Recently, in Ukraine, a civil service code has been adopted in which civil service is being depoliticised. Open competitions are introduced for recruitment in the state administration - Art. 23, Art. 26 - the stability of employment is being introduced and the depoliticisation of civil service is not slowed down. With us, ladies and gentlemen... it's not enough for you to have the politics of ministers, vice-ministers, who have a political office to help, but you also want to politicize all the higher positions in the administration, end up with professionalism, open competitions, stability of employment, knowledge of the procedures and establish your political protégés there, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which you have confidence in. I ask you: Why are you going down to the level of Mr. Yanukovych, why are you retreating Poland in civilizational development, why are you... Don't you just have the shame of bringing up a bill like that? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u53	Please take the floor of Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! Well, first of all, I would like to make a declaration on behalf of the Modern One. None of our messengers is an insidious quarter-intellect, nor is she an angry feminist, nor is she a stink of evil. And I'm sure we'll be writing a letter to the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union on this matter. [[Applause]] Mr Arthur Górski. Now, here's the question. I would like to ask you about the Civil Service Council, all the reasons for its liquidation. It was the advice that took care of, among others. an assessment of the process of admission of persons to work, of the qualification system. And I wanted to ask: What are the specific reasons why such a Civil Service Council in front of the Prime Minister should be removed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u55	Please take the floor of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u56	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a sad day for Polish democracy. In these arguments, which are hideously hidden, sounds a lot of contempt, contempt for people who have been engaged for years in favour of the state, i.e. gaining qualifications, passing further levels of exams because they wanted to work for the state. Today it turns out that if a party that has a majority at the moment does not accept these people, it can throw them out overnight. And that is why I would like to ask specifically: Will the disabled also be expelled? A major problem in the administration is the very low employment rate of people with disabilities. Unfortunately, Mr Górski, when we carried out a law in 2011 to support the employment of people with disabilities in public administration, was strongly opposed. Fortunately, Mr Stanisław Szwed was a minister today, who clearly said that this is also part of the civilizational development of the country. It was difficult to convince people with disabilities that they would not be regarded as inferior, that they would be evaluated primarily through their qualifications and life's achievements. These people have been very distrustful because they have often taken part in competitions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and it's not known why they were eliminated from this group. In 2011, we put in place concrete solutions to force an honest opening to the benefit of people with disabilities at the offices. Will they lose their jobs too? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u57	Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Sitarski, Kukiz Club15.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u58	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After reading the draft Print Act No 119, I submit the following questions. First of all, recruitment for civil service should be open and competitive for all citizens. And an additional question besides this: Why is there a proposal to liquidate the Civil Service Council, as one of the Members has already noted here? Here's another thing. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 68 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The period of suspension of employment as a result of temporary arrest shall be included in the period of employment. My question is, without taking into account the withdrawal of criminal proceedings or the acquittal of a civil servant and a civil servant, an employee who has not worked, is to have time spent in custody as a period of employment? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u59	Please take the floor of Mr Richard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u60	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the experience of 8 years of voivodeship - who is the senior civil servant? This is a watchmaker who knows the modes, complex and complex modes of government administration. This is a man who, in a situation of change, knows how these overloaded modes can be adjusted. It is also a man who knows how to put these modes into an emergency in an entirely unprecedented situation, so that it continues to function. You want to make a change, a lot of change. How can you imagine without these people in this situation? Here's what's supposed to happen is that people with no competence, because it's the law on departments that the voivode may not have the competence, have no experience, will employ other people without experience and competence. I ask the question of at least one rational reason for firing these people, although one rational, and at least one rational reason to give up work experience and internship in relation to both the Head of Civil Service and senior officials. The reasons for the bill are embarrassing. I think you can do better to give me at least one rational but true reason. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u61	Thank you. I ask the floor of Mrs Dorota Rutkowska, the Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is an excellent example of what Law and Justice needed to limit the capacity of the Constitutional Tribunal to act, which is the guardian of the Constitution. The amendment of the Civil Service Act shows that you are determined to make changes under the protection of good changes that will simply break the Constitution. Already mentioned here art. 153 of the Constitution refers to the politically neutral performance of the State's tasks in government offices. I have a question for the applicants: Do you think that apoliticity is the same as apartisanity? I have pointed this out in the words of Arthur Górski. How do you intend to motivate government officials to improve their qualifications if they can only dream of promotions to executive positions? And one more question: What is it that bothers you about the Civil Service Council, where representatives of all parliamentary clubs sit? You have a parliamentary majority, but you lack the courage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Madame, there is no lack of nerve.]] You, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u63	I ask the floor of Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With each parliamentary project being examined for Members' questions about the costs of introducing these projects, you are responsible for the fact that the mandatory assessment of the impact of the regulations is only for government projects. We have absolutely this knowledge, and we are aware of it, but today the situation is unique, because this regulation concerns hundreds or thousands of people, non-anonymous people, known by name, their loved ones, their everyday life, their future, their security. Today again, we are consistently asking about the effects of the regulation of this project, this change, the assessment of the impact of the regulation of this project, and we remain hopeful that someday we will finally get answers to questions about all the costs of your regulations and new projects. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u65	Please take the floor of Mr Józef Lassota, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, going down here to the podium, I asked myself whether it was worth asking any questions at all in this situation, what is it? Even the Member who represents the applicants, disregarding it simply, is absent, which also shows that our questions are merely statements that actually... We speak our own opinion, but it doesn't matter. I am aware of this, but my administrative experience, and probably also because of my age, entitles me and even obliges me to give a proper warning to the rulers today. Law and Justice have accosted power, just like a child sometimes, getting a bunch of candy under the tree, he just goes crazy. You guys are doing it today. You think you're having such a honeymoon. Without thinking, like robots controlled by one brain, by the president, and yet you think... [[You're obsessed with this, sir.]] ...that you are the better sort of Poles. You're acting on your undoing, remember that: you're acting on your undoing. It would still be half poor, because it would be lucky for Poland, but you also act on destruction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish democracy, you are pushing Poland into this black hole of democracy. Don't go that way. The question is, does any of you people who aren't controlled like robots at all, because they're in this club too, realize where you're going? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u67	Please take the floor of Mr Zbigniew Gryglas, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Once again, I would like to stress that those who have higher management positions in the administration are not and will not be a burden for you. Remember that. It doesn't disqualify them from working under the leadership of the previous coalition. Many of these people also worked during the SLD, AWS and previous governments, and worked for 25 years of Polish democracy, Polish freedom. Take advantage of their experience. Like one of my previous speakers said, they're like clockmakers. Without these watches, the Polish clock will not correctly indicate the hour, the Polish clock will no longer walk. And a specific question about the article. 1 point 16. It is incomprehensible to me why the suspension of employment, the suspension of duties in the event of a temporary arrest, the initiation of disciplinary or criminal proceedings is to be limited only to... by restricting to seniors in the civil service, i.e. the principle of initiating proceedings concerns ordinary employees, [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, it does not apply to higher-ranking workers. They should be required more. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u69	Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, Moderna, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u70	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is sad that we must remind you of this. I thought she'd reflect, go out to the stand and apologize to our friends, but I can see she doesn't feel like it. [[But for what? For what?]] On 22 November at 3 p.m. 15.35... 15.36 you posted this post on Facebook. This is your entry. [[These are my views on these ladies, that's what I have.]] [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, it's a good thing you have the opportunity, piss club friends, to hear what your psychic friend's views are about women. [[But that's not about it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u71	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u72	Question: 25 years ago, the government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki established the National School of Public Administration. He knew that the backbone of the state was administration and depoliticized civil service. For 25 years, this school has educated thousands of people who are actually apolitical and meet all the criteria for occupying the highest offices in the country. What are you gonna tell these people today? Those graduates, those students and people who want to go to this school? That they won't find work opportunities, they don't have a promotion path, because you're gonna take all the top positions by handing them out to your party buddies? Go to them and tell them as a gift for the 25th anniversary of the National School of Public Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we are on the 21st item of the agenda, i.e. the first reading of the Parliamentary bill amending the Civil Service Act and some other laws, so I would ask that the polemics relating to Facebook entries, on other social networks... [[But it's the truth!]] ...to move to these portals, and at this point focus on the procession, on the agenda. [[Joan of Scheuring-Wielgus: To the ethics committee...]] Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u74	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! It is worthwhile to hear words in this discussion that speak about what civil service is. Civil service are primarily people, members of the civil service corps, whose task is to ensure the smooth functioning of the public administration, regardless of political situation and changes in government. That's the definition of civil service. Building a modern state, increasing the efficiency of its bodies and, above all, the satisfaction of society are the most important objectives and tasks to be met by members of the civil service corps. In fact, we shouldn't ask any questions about this project, because this project doesn't meet any of these assumptions in any article. There is only one question for me at this point, because we know how many Members sign the bill: But who is the real author of this shameful project? 'Cause you can't call him that any other way. Who's the real author? Let the name of the person be here, let it become history. Because this person will go into history as the biggest vandal in Polish democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u75	Please take the floor of Mr Dominik Tarczyński, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. I would like to ask you what pathology looks like in national administration, what is its scale. I'd like to invoke what's going on in Świętokrzyskie. Mrs. Andżelika Możjanowska from PSL spoke very beautifully about procedures, about all these... [[Voice from the room: About transparency.]] About transparency. The ideal example of what has been happening for 8 years is, of horror, the director of the District Labour Office in Kielce, Ms. Małgorzata Stanioch, who during the election campaign as a candidate PSL to the Senate was detained by Central Corruption Bureau, caught in the act. [[Voice from the room: Self-government...]] It doesn't matter, it's what practice is for eight years, what people in the Party of their People are employed and what positions they work in. Moreover, the Party of its People - PSL in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture 3629 employees have as many as 1707, whose names are repeated. [[Applause]] They accidentally went by with the porters, and suddenly the same name was found in the agency. This system, which was created by PSL and Platform, is a cancer of democracy, which is running the Polish administration. This is an outrage. We need to get this sorted out as soon as possible. Minister, please tell me what the scale of this pathology and this tumor is, what it looks like on a national scale. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u77	Thank you. Please take the floor of Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! To be honest, I knew that there would be a lot of questions here, a lot of discussion, I am very surprised that the Polish People's Party did not take advantage of this, on this occasion, to sit quietly - to quote a classic from France, who once said these words. Ladies and gentlemen, as soon as it enters Google information: PSL casts its own, hundreds of information about the filling of posts by the Polish People's Party is popping up, such titles as: PSL is a machine for making money. Madame, I would like to address Mrs Możjanowska, please read these titles, these articles, which are in all the media of all the options. [[But we're talking about the bill.]] Public calls are being made to which everyone can report, but in advance we know who is to win the contest. It happens that a well-deserved PSL worker does not meet the formal criteria required by the regulations for managing functions in offices: secretary, department manager, etc., several years of working in a similar managerial position. Then he is recruited as a private office for which the delicacy is employed, and later the head of the unit entrusts him with the duties of the management position until he can become a full manager. It's from the country, isn't it? The 21 companies controlled by the Marshal of Lower Silesia account for as many as 20 people associated with the party and with the legitimacy. [[I would like to see your bill, sir.]] Currently in 21 Marshal companies [[♪ The bell ♪]] over 20 people from PSL and the Civic Platform are employed on supervisory boards. It is the title of the "Gazeta Wyborcza": "The human web." How PSL activists left the country with a network of influences. It wouldn't take a dozen days to read at least the titles themselves. I have a question: Does this law therefore give the possibility of such fictitious admission of people who are to meet these criteria only later... [[No, the law and justice party card.]] ...and at first they don't, and it's these criteria that you've talked about so much, is this bill going to end it? [[Applause]] [[About the bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u79	Please take the floor of Mr Jan Grabc, the Civic Platform Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Civil service has been built in Poland for years and, of course, it has its shortcomings. It should be systematically strengthened and improved. But what does Law and Justice suggest? It proposes releasing competent officials, resigning from the competitive open recruitment system, lowering requirements, we had this example a few days ago when changing the rules on the competence of voivodships, who no longer need any experience in managing human resources today. Is Minister Beata Kemp going to be a new role model for the clerk? Is the new official's model an official who refuses to execute the final and final judgment of the court without delay? [[Applause]] Should the Poles expect that when they go to office with the final judgment of the court or the final administrative decision, the official will be able to refuse to implement these decisions because of his political views? Is this what the Poles want, and is this the good change announced by the Law and Justice? Was it really about this change for the PiS voters? Do you really want to replace civil servants with political activists? Officials, Minister, should not be guided by politics. It's a shame Law and Justice don't understand that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u81	Please take the floor of Mrs Józef Hrynkiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Between 2006 and 2007, as director of the National School of Public Administration, I took part in the selection of high positions in the government administration of professional officials. We chose them with the utmost care. We had a great deal of government authority to allow people with the highest qualifications, graduates of the National School of Public Administration to fill the positions of directors-general, directors responsible for legislation and finance, as well as staff in government administration. Two years after the PiS lost power, there was no one in this position. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] And the public administration school was completely demoted. [[Applause]] If in 2006 I had six, seven very good job opportunities for each graduate in the government administration, and they were carefully selected, then two years later no one wanted to hire them and education was significantly reduced. So, ladies and gentlemen, this bill we're introducing allows us to restore some normality. What's more, it helps to eliminate the pathology that existed, e.g. in the Ministry of Health, started first by Mrs. Kopacz and then by Mr. Arłukowicz, where the privatisation really took place. legislation, which already leads to such corruption that it is difficult to imagine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u83	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Ms Beata Kempa. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u84	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the sake of order, the government of the Republic of Poland sent the opinion of the government on this law to the court yesterday, in accordance with the requirements of law. Today's our first reading. I would like to say this: there have been a lot of untruthful and hurtful statements here, not only to the ruling party, because it is as if we can bear it, but also to the civil service. Well, what it looked like at the time of the PO-PSL management positions, is witnessed by Mr Bury's conversations with Mr Kwiatkowski. [[Applause]] And that's a fact. It's an ad vocem of this scale of pathology, sir. 'Cause that's actually something we could talk about in the morning. But that's what Polish prosecutors do. I hope the courts will take care of that as well. On the other hand, after this month, as someone has confirmed - and rightly pointed out - yesterday a month has passed since we were in government - I can say today, as head of the firm, how it is necessary to do bypass or even bypass, in order to take on a managerial position a person who will be able to meet all the requirements of the boss, who wants to introduce reforms concerning good changes, which will keep pace, which will be professional, which will be timely, responsible, because responsibility is here - I see after a month - a feature that should be the most important for each boss. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland is responsible for administration. It cannot be that the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland or the Government cannot influence it. And that's how it is today. I want to tell you what this bypass looks like, a common practice. Well, there are these competitions, which were supposed to be transparent, transparent, were supposed to cause that the executive functions would be received by people who actually win this competition, only that the assumptions and spirit of the bill their own and their life. And it looks more or less like that, that if you want to take on the position of executive officer of the civil service corps, that is, from the resource we have, the stock of civil servants - not from any other, not from the market, not from the city, as it is popularly said - it cannot be done directly, because the competition sometimes takes just 3 months and we have 3 months of paralysis in this situation. For example, in the case of directors-general, this is permitted by law - only that it is simply fiction when it comes to competitions. First, a candidate is appointed as Director-General of this civil service corps replacing the Director-General, that is his position, then the competition is written down, and then, as the practice has shown, more than 60% These people just win this contest. Then what's the point of this fiction? Let's just stop with fiction and hypocrisy. If we want to implement reforms efficiently, it's from resources, I'm talking about leadership positions... because there's a lot of statements here that might come out. either from ignorance of the specifics of the civil service, or from the fact that you do not want to know the specifics of the civil service, its hierarchy, the way in which you acquire the powers, in which you also lose those powers, either out of ordinary bad will, or out of the desire to simply add to the political opponent. In this situation, it must be made clear that when it comes to the civilian corps, we have more than 120,000 in this corps. persons. Who's talking about getting everyone fired? It's just physically impossible. If anybody's got that kind of crap in here... [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] ...said it, I repeat, it's physically impossible. That's also part of the bill. And I'll tell you more. As far as management positions are concerned, these posts are around 1600, with the fact that the people who may be appointed to these positions, most of them, as I can see, will be civil servants, and wherever experts are needed, perhaps very good managers, will be able to take such people and appoint them as managers. Let me remind you that there will be two powerful events next year, i.e. NATO Summit and World Youth Days. Already today we see how much we need project managers for managing positions in this matter, and we do not have such managers in resources. So, we're supposed to be doing fiction again? Once again, the deputy director of the department, and then we write the contest, and then this director wins? Congratulations. We can cheat and play as much as we want, but the state on this efficiency and professionalism is absolutely losing. And these are undeniable facts. High Izbo! It's not like if the director who's doing his job today gets canceled, he loses his job. The manager is obliged to offer him another position. If he does not accept this position, there are common rules - then he will have all the privileges that he has when he terminates his employment. But, I repeat, in case he doesn't take this position. Because today it is so, and I want to show this mechanism very precisely, precisely in this corps of civil servants, that if we want to take the person who suits us and is of these resources, it is simply the boss who transfers it from place to place. Those are the rules. Nobody loses this job, simply goes to another position or responds to the needs of a member of the management in the field, because he specializes in it or actually has a practice in another ministry and is needed, for example, in the Prime Minister's firm for the duration of these duties. And I really think that in this case, continuing to do this fiction is simply immoral to these people. High Izbo! There was a question here about the disabled. Statistics are always the best answer to the question. Mr Sławomir Piechota was concerned, and rightly so, only that in recent years, as far as management positions are concerned, there were only 23 of them in 1600 posts. It is a pity that the Civic Platform and the PSL did not make sure that there were just more such people on the 1600, and that then the Platform did not shed crocodile tears. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, in general, the participation of people with disabilities in the civil service corps is 3 to 4%. So the question is basically for Mr Piechota, who has performed certain functions over the past few years. Finally, High Izbo, as it has been in recent years, when it comes to the possibility of a career promotion, i.e. the definition of the so-called. limits, when the persons who have passed the qualifications, have passed the training, passed the very hard exams, can they be appointed for these higher positions? I would like to tell you that it was in 2006 and 2007 that we made this possible every year, about 1400 members of the civil service corps. And how was the last years? 200 people could only benefit from it. That's how you cared about these issues. Of course, we can understand that there was a crisis, that there were budgetary issues. That's all we can understand and understand. And we too today are likely to set this limit at a very similar level, although the discussion on this issue is ongoing, whether this limit and this possibility of promotion simply do not increase, even though there is a very difficult situation. But you didn't really give this promotion a chance for many more than 200 people over many years, which were always foreseen in the Budget Act. And these are facts, and these are facts. High Izbo! Before you speak about Yanukovych's level, before you have very hard words here, it is worth really looking into your conscience. Therefore, High Izbo, I would like to say clearly and clearly to the Member of the Civic Platform... I believe Mr Grabiec. Tell me, at what point... I also remind him that if he reads, in addition to the functions I have, I am a constitutional minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, even if he wants to degrade me to function... Anyway, no job disgraces me, and I wouldn't be ashamed of anything, any job is important, and I'd be proud of anybody. Immediately, I want to clarify clearly, immediately, the publication of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, just as regards the judgment of 3 December, according to the RCL guidelines, these are only RCL guidelines, that is from 5 to 10 working days in addition, so we were in perfect time. Doubts on the basis of the article. 7 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland should even have every constitutional minister, reading every act of law, should have. On the other hand, when it comes to the Supreme Court judgment, it may even be 14 days in some cases. Then show me at least one day's delay. On the other hand, when it comes to the governance of the Civic Platform and PSL, we have such cases, e.g. in 2013, when 37 days, 40 days, were published from the time of the judgment. And then there was no screaming? And there's a lot more to these cases. So it's worth it sometimes, before you throw yourself a rock, to look into your own conscience. High Izbo! There is another very important element, very important. Namely our young citizens who graduate from Polish universities, sometimes also non-Polish universities, but their diplomas are very important in this matter and experience, they do not really have any chances. That's why they're fleeing abroad, and that's why they're building their careers and their families, and that's why they're creating other countries' GDP. Here they don't stand a chance just because this shell is just the way it is. And there is also no possibility of giving a chance to those people who in many cases hand in hand would like to implement a program of good changes. Why not give them a chance? And once again, I see today that in my civil service firm, I am able to use a lot of people from this resource and I am already using a lot of people for executive positions. The only thing I don't agree to is this fiction with the competitions, which is a fiction that has been cultivated for many years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Correct, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Sławomir Piechot has tabled a corrigendum. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u86	Thank you, Marshal. I would like to explain my previous statement because I am convinced that the Minister did not understand me. But I think it's a misunderstanding, Minister, that my statement is due to a fundamental difference in the subjective treatment of people with disabilities. I am, of course, in favour of the current government being able to further develop and increase the employment of people with disabilities, but I have these great concerns, because I know how difficult it has been to overcome various resistances before. I Act of 2011 adopted by the Civic Platform and PSL coalition required that an office which does not have those required by the Act 6% employed persons with disabilities, he made it clear when recruiting new candidates. And if there were a disabled person among the top five, that person would have priority under the employment law. And why are we fundamentally different in looking at this matter, and why are my concerns? I remember Mr Górski's position, then on the Civil Service Council. And luckily, I stress that there was Stanisław Szwed from PiS, who defended this concept of support for the employment of disabled people. But what is even more clear about the attitude of Law and Justice toward people with disabilities? For example, in the application to the Constitutional Tribunal of the right to vote by persons with disabilities by proxy or by correspondence. I remember this embarrassing argument that a disabled person is, of course, unable to choose a proxy, unable to vote safely by a proxy. I'm afraid of that philosophy of watching. However, I wish you to continue to take care of the employment of people with disabilities. Therefore, the question will remain loudly emphasized all the time: Will these disabled people who trusted, and it was not easy to do so, and have decided to enter the competitions, retain these jobs, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or will they be wiped out by this mess? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Platform, also proposed to be corrected. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u88	Thank you. Minister, I know that President Kaczyński used to say that no one would convince you that white is white and black is black. [[You guys have some sort of fixation on this, gentlemen. Let it go.]] But believe me, it means immediately. If the Minister can't convince the lawyers of the Government's Legislature Center to do so, perhaps the prosecutor will. Thank you very much. [[That's what you said, man.]] [[That's what happened.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u89	Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Małgorzata Wassermann.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that I have listened attentively to these questions, these statements. I agree with Minister Kempa that there have been a lot of false statements here, a lot of contradictions and a lot of hypocrisy, a lot of hypocrisy, Mrs President. [[Applause]] But in order not to be literal, I will quote you a few quotes: You prepare a candidate for Vice-Director - says the president of NIK Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to Jan Bury from PSL before the competition for Vice-President of the NIK Delegation in Rzeszów. [[Exactly.]] The competition was won by Bure's former assistant and PSL politician texting Kwiatkowski: Mr. President, as they report, the task is done. [[Applause]] [[Isn't it that white is white and black is black?]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[You need to refresh your memory all the time.]] [[The voice from the room: Now it will be no more...]] Uhm... Come on, Kwiatkowski's meeting Mr. Jezierski. After the meeting he calls Bury and says: I just got out of a conversation where I said that I hope that tomorrow there will be three good decisions - the cancellation of the competition for the director in Rzeszów, the vice principal and the director in Warsaw. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Do you want me to keep quoting, or is that enough? [[Voice from the room: Transparency.]] In light of the above... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Madame, you have had the opportunity to subscribe to the question and to refer to it, because these tapes have been known for a long time. [[Madam President, you have neglected the opportunity to sit quietly.]] [[You'll take care of the hockey.]] Let me tell you something, very honest. I would like this to get to you and to the public. Thanks to the fact that we had in Poland several efficient waiters and a very disabled administration, which protected the ministers, we learned how you treat the competitions for the highest positions in civil service. [[Applause]] So, if you allow us, as Law and Justice, we will lead to Poles educated in Poland and abroad who manage private businesses who sit in public institutions who sit in private institutions, who are after practices in the institutions of the European Union and the world, getting a chance to get into government administration. [[Applause]] We will cause this glass ceiling by states built to crack and there will be no more such situations. [[The president's will.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There were also questions here, completely false accusations that people who will be appointed to these higher positions in the civil service would be people who, for example. They're in their senior year of college. Well, I, ladies and gentlemen, am sending you to open your own tablet, read the project and see what the requirements are for the candidate. And I assure you that a person who has not graduated from higher education, and there are a number of other indications, will certainly not be able to apply for such a post. Ladies and gentlemen, the next argument here is that we have deleted the five-year period that concerns the head of civil service. Currently, the Act states that it cannot apply for this position, it cannot be the head of civil service of a person who has been a member of a political party in the last five years. Ladies and gentlemen, this is, above all, a provision that is incompatible with the Constitution. I'll tell you why. I'm quoting the constitution now, Art. The provisions of paragraph 178 of the Law. 3: The judge may not belong to a political party. Art. 195: The judges of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot take office... cannot belong to a political party, of course during the term of office. The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber shall not belong to a political party. The Ombudsman's rights are the same. Why in this situation should the Head of Civil Service be deprived of exercising his constitutional rights, that is, belonging to a political party within five years of being appointed? After all, this person may not even know that one day in three, four, five years someone will propose such a position. This is a record which, I believe, is inconsistent with the constitution, even in the face of what I have read to you here so far. If you have a problem with the fact that those people who may have had a party card will be filled, I can remind you of a few names again. I can remind you again of the name of the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, who was elected President, as I recall, probably from these benches. You didn't have a problem like that at the time. [[Applause]] This applies both to the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, to the Supreme Audit Chamber, and to many other positions. And I would say this: if these are the people who come from you, then this is democracy, if these aren't people from you, then you're scaring society, then you're creating an idea that you don't know what's going on. That's democracy. Ladies and gentlemen! You guys were asking this here... We propose that the Civil Service Council be removed in this project. Ladies and gentlemen, we have promised, and we will also implement this in our programme, that we will try to reduce the administrative burden at all costs, especially in those areas where it is simply unnecessary. As far as the powers of the Civil Service Council are concerned, these are basically opinional competences. There is no justification in the face of this presented project to maintain this body, even financially. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address one more point. Well, it is a parliamentary project, and hence it does not have to represent the financial consequences. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u91	Thank you very much, Member. I'm calling a 15-minute break... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir, I'll continue to complete the formalities. The discussion is closed. As a proposal to reject the draft law at first reading has been tabled in the discussion, we will proceed to vote on this proposal in the voting block. At this point, I'm announcing a 15-minute break. Thank you kindly. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 34 hrs. 11 min 58]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act (Print No 122). I ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present the justification for the bill. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Formal requests, Mr. Marshal.]] Have they been reported? [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Sorry, Mr Marshal, I have filed a formal motion.]] I'm sorry, there have been formal requests. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Yes.]] I see, before that point. Please, Mrs. Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz with a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a request to postpone this discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u93	Madam, two minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u94	To postpone this discussion in order to obtain legal opinions, Article. Paragraph 184. 3 paragraph 1 of the Regulation. I would like to ask Members of Parliament and Members of Law and Justice, but unfortunately you are not... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Here we are, hello.]] And I wanted to ask you how many of you had read this act earlier, the Constitutional Court Act, how many of you had a chance to read the opinion of the Supreme Court, which had just entered the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen, I see that none of you raises hands, and therefore it can be assumed that you did not have the opportunity to get acquainted, just as we did.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u95	I ask you, Madame, for a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u96	Yeah, it's a motion, and I'm justifying it right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u97	Is this a recess request?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u98	The adjournment, yes, of the adjournment of the sitting in order to obtain legal opinions. Ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, democracy lasts primarily because of the involvement of citizens, but here in this Chamber, the defence of a democratic state continues thanks to the involvement of modern Members, thanks to the involvement of Members of the Civic Platform, thanks to the involvement of Members of the Polish People's Party. I hope that the defenders of this democracy will also be in the benches occupied by the Kukiz group. I hope that among you, among the Members of the PiS, there will also be people who would rather be defenders of democracy today than its gravediggers. From the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 It follows from the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm that the reasons for the draft law should inform the results of the consultations carried out and of the options and opinions submitted, in particular if the obligation to consult such opinions arises from the provisions of the Act. And it really follows from the law, the Supreme Court Act - art. Point 3 and Article 1 3 (1) (a) Point 1 (5) of the Act on the National Court Register results in an obligation to obtain an opinion from these authorities. Unjustified by the circumstances, speeding up the adoption of new legislation is indeed detrimental to the good of justice, [[♪ The bell ♪]] does not serve the stability of the legal system...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u100	...understood the authority and confidence of citizens in the legislative power, including the one you are creating. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u101	Thank you, Member. Formal application by Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u102	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the Prime Minister is not in the process of considering such an important bill. [[He's working, he's working.]] I think that's everybody... [[He's got more important things to do.]] ...Pissants are working. Because how many of you are here? 11? 12? 231? [[Applause]] [[Let's get to the point.]] I submit a formal request for a 10-minute break and an invitation to this House of Members of the Law and Justice on behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I would also like to ask questions, part of the justification, to those Members who are, to Mr Peterowicz. How did this happen, Mr Prosecutor, that you changed your mind so dramatically... [[Sir, there's a Member here.]] ...the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u103	I would like to point out to you that you are making a formal request, not addressing a specific Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u104	...because last year you said from this place that it is necessary to make it clear that the Constitutional Tribunal has established its position? What kind of consolidation did you mean, sir? The land at al. Shucha? The building? [[It's time for questions.]] You also said a year ago... [[We haven't started yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u105	Mr President, this is not yet a point of order. You're filing a formal motion for now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u106	...because you are the author of this bill, that today not only politicians, but also citizens follow the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, comment on decisions and - attention - attach great importance to them. You attach great importance to judgments. So much so you don't want to publish them. [[What's your conclusion?]] Finally, the question to Mrs Pavłowicz is also... [[There you go.]] ... Because Professor...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u107	Madam, please don't disturb me. Finish it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u108	...in her many opinions to BAS, she referred to the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. You said the Sejm could do a lot, but you can't do everything. This is because what it can, must be within the limits of the constitution and laws. Finally, I would like to ask: Why do you want to send the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal towards Bieszczady? That's what you were talking about yesterday. [[What kind of question is that?]] And to conclude, on behalf of the Members of the Civic Platform - I think here on behalf of Mr Honourable [[♪ The bell ♪]] especially - I would very much ask the marshal to issue a price list for our speeches as Members of the Civic Platform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u109	Thank you very much. Now with a formal motion, Mr. Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 7 I would like to ask you to postpone the discussion on this point because yesterday, Marshal Kuchciński committed an abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure 37 says clearly that...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u111	Mr President, we are not yet in the middle of a discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u112	No, but I'm telling you, I'm justifying a formal motion. Art. 37 Rules of Procedure refer to seven days which must pass from the delivery of printing to the examination of the case, unless...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u113	Mr President, your proposal is pointless since we are not yet discussing this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u114	But, Marshal, let me finish my justification. Mr. Marshal Kuchciński made such a runaway yesterday, speaking of putting on the agenda, who is in favour, and it will be simultaneous consent to a waiver from the Rule. 37. You might as well have added one more sentence yesterday: this will mean that we are in favour of this bill. And this way you don't have to use three readings at all. It's unacceptable to settle two things at one time. That should be two different votes in the Seym. And now the project that you want to debate at this point...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u115	Mr President, let me remind you that no objections have been raised. Please don't...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u116	But I objected yesterday...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u117	He wasn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u118	...and the marshal wouldn't let me justify it. Mr. Marshal Kuchciński broke the rules yesterday...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u119	Mr President, I must warn you that you are using the argument...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u120	...by applying one vote for two moments. But, Mr. Marshal, let me give you a brief explanation. [[How many times can you justify?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u121	You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u122	And you want this bill to put a blockade on the Constitutional Court, and that's why you're in such a hurry. You have one opinion of the Supreme Court, devastating for this project, devastating. This is an opinion you should be ashamed of. You want to eliminate power control because all you want to do is rule the president's will. It's unacceptable to have a facility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the non-constitutional influence of the State.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u123	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u124	You want to eliminate freedom on the Internet. This is unacceptable, and that's why we have to protest. Mr. Marshal, this yesterday's surgery by Marshal Kuchciński...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u125	Thank you very much, sir. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u126	...was unacceptable. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u127	Now for a formal motion from Mr Lachadium Myrchna. [[Arkadius.]] Arkadius. I'm sorry, it's indistinctly written. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u128	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Acting on the basis of Article. Paragraph 184. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I request the adjournment of the discussion and at the same time call on the Marshal to exercise his powers under the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which provides: The Marshal of the Sejm may return the draft law to the applicant if the justification attached to the draft does not meet the requirements set out in paragraph 1. 2 and 3 of this article. Ladies and gentlemen! Art. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 provides: The draft law shall be accompanied by a justification which, in point 1, should clarify the need and purpose of the bill. Mr. Marshal! Please indicate to me where in this bill - and that is the question to the applicant - the purpose of the act is indicated. He doesn't have an opinion. [[Applause]] Paragraph 2 provides: state the actual situation in the area to be regulated. Please indicate to me where, at the very least, the trial has been made, where the key decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal that have taken place in these cases are referred to. There isn't. Paragraph 4: present the envisaged social, economic, financial and legal impacts. There are no legal effects at all, they have not been described at all. I understand that the subject matter is difficult, but it's worth a try. [[Applause]] To the remaining extent, the applicant concludes that the Act has a positive social and economic impact. [[Yes, sir.]] Congratulations, because very few projects mobilise tens of thousands. Poles for citizenship. Ladies and gentlemen! It appears from the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm that if the applicant fails to comply with the obligation to indicate in the statement of reasons the Sejm Bureau should refer the draft law to him and the initiative is considered ineffective. [[Applause]] Therefore, Mr. Marshal, I request that the bill be returned to the applicant and put this request to the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u129	I would like to inform you that you do not have the opportunity to make such an application. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[How's it gone?]] It's informal. [[Art. Paragraph 184. 7 in conjunction with Article. 34.]] I find this proposal informal. [[I encourage you to read the regulations.]] [[Voice in the room: He doesn't know the rules.]] With another formal application by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club. I'd like a formal motion, please. [[This is a violation of the rules of procedure, Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a formal request for a recess. Now I'm asking for time to justify it. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Law and Justice decided that the Constitutional Tribunal should not be in a project that appeared at night after hours. 22. It's a late time, I know, but it's a tradition of law and justice, a disgraceful tradition, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, destruction, destruction of the Constitutional Court, which law and justice want to completely block. You are the gravediggers of the Constitution, you are the gravediggers of the Constitutional Tribunal, you are the gravediggers of freedom and democracy! [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask for a recess in this courtroom... [[So I can calm down.]] ...the President of Kaczyński, Prime Minister Szydło and Marshal Kuchciński appeared because I wanted to appeal to the President of Kaczyński, Prime Minister Szydło and Marshal Kuchciński on behalf of millions of Poles and those thousands who came out on Saturday, also appeal to voters, on behalf of your voters, Law and Justice, not believers, because I do not confuse your voters with your followers: stop trampling on the constitution, stop destroying the Constitutional Tribunal, because only he can protect us, Poles, protect the fundamental values, freedom, law and democracy. That's why I'm asking for a break. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, this was the last formal motion. [[Vote from the courtroom: Negative, Mr. Marshal.]] We therefore return to the consideration of the point. [[Voice from the Chamber: Votes!]] We will consider the proposals in the voting block at noon. 13. [[Voice from the room: But how?]] [[Voice from the room: How?]] [[They condition first reading, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome, Mr. Marshal with a formal motion. [[This is a condition for first reading.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! In this House, I have had the privilege of serving for three years in this honorable office, which you are now in - I was Vice-Marshal of the Sejm. And maybe as a more experienced colleague from the parliamentary benches, I would like to point out that there has been a formal proposal under Article. Paragraph 184. 7: the Marshal of the Sejm shall give the floor outside the agenda of the sitting in order to request the adjournment of the discussion. And that's the conclusion. [[Applause]] [[I did.]] And Mr. Marshal should use his lips. 4: The formal proposal which has fallen is decided by a majority of the Members present, which means that you should hold this vote at the moment. [[Applause]] [[Of course.]] [[Now!]] And the other actions of your marshal will be a violation of the rules of procedure. And it's gonna be a scandal. Take a vote! [[Applause]] [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u133	Relax, sir. Firstly, I can put this proposal to the vote and I will put it to the vote at noon. 13. [[Now!]] [[Voice from the room: Rules!]] [[This is a joke!]] And secondly, we're not in the middle of a discussion, we're ahead of the procession. [[Voice from the room: When does the discussion begin?]] [[Well, that's a formal conclusion!]] [[But there's a conclusion.]] I would like to ask Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz to present the reasons for the bill. [[Game in the O.R.]] [[The vote should be.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, Art. 34.]] Sir, please don't disturb... [[Get this prosecutor off the stand.]] [[We have formal requirements for a bill that doesn't meet. Such a bill cannot be allowed.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: Sit down.]] Please don't interfere with the proceedings. [[Mr. Marshal, you're breaking the rules.]] You're welcome. [[We're starting to work on a thing that...]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Voting.]] I'm asking you to slow down your emotions. [[You're breaking the rules.]] You're welcome, sir. [[It's not emotion, it's regulations, it's regulations.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the group of Members of the applicants... [[Comrade...]] [[PZPR.]] ...I'd like to introduce... Take a look around in your environment before you say those words. [[Applause]] [[The Bolshevik bill.]] You are surrounded by the Secretaries of the Central Committee of the Polish United Workers' Party, and you know it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[It's a Bolshevik bill.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Comrade...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u135	I ask you to remain calm, because I will have to discipline your fellow Members.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u136	The draft of this Act aims to regulate the internal organisation and procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal before it. In particular, the provisions of the amendment introduce such a principle that the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal should function and adopt resolutions in more than the current composition and by a higher majority. Hence the revision of the rule raising up to 13 judges, and the majority decision-making to a majority of 2/3 votes. The President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be elected by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal as amended. And so it has been. However, there is no detailed regulation in the Act so far. The amendment is in this direction that the rules of procedure of the Constitutional Tribunal should be limited by a rigid statutory regulation relating to the number of votes. This will also simplify the current rules of procedure. In the current legal state, persons elected as judges take the oath before the President of the Republic of Poland. Such a solution was introduced by the 1997 Law. In the 1985 Act, according to this law, people took a vow before the Marshal of the Sejm. [[President of the Constitutional Court Andrzej Rzepliński enters the sitting room, applause]] The Constitution does not require the President to take the oath directly from the persons elected to judge. Vowing is undoubtedly important because it creates an opportunity to perform its duties, but the constitution leaves the legislator to decide before which authority of the State it will be submitted. The vow taken in the project will be taken before the Marshal of the Sejm. The logic of the art will remain. 194 constitutions. [[In front of the D.A.]] If the judges choose the Sejm, also the marshal as his organ and on his behalf will take the vows. This will be in line with the principle that the oath is taken by the electing or appointing institution, as well as with the logic of choosing and vowing members of other bodies elected by the Sejm, e.g. Court of State or ombudsman. [[Court of State is for you.]] The requirement for the Court to deal fully with matters arises from the need for careful and comprehensive consideration of institutional problems due to their particular importance for the public good. In its Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Court, this principle was depreciated by the adoption that the majority of cases going to the Tribunal could be dealt with by 5 judges. According to the legislator, the principle that cases are dealt with in full is to be accepted. Only exceptions to this rule can be made in the situation indicated in the Act, where 7-member judges and three-member judges are foreseen. The Act also introduces 7 judges instead of 5 judges. This corresponds to the level of almost half of the number of judges. The Act of 25 June 2015 requires at least nine judges to be present in full. The difference between 9 persons and 15 persons is too great to claim that 9 persons constitute a full membership. On the other hand, 15 people may be faced with the need to exclude a judge. It is therefore reasonable to increase the minimum number of judges in full to at least 13 judges. This will safeguard the quality and objectivity of judgments, as well as a margin of safety when certain judges are excluded. We're changing the art. 81. 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 These amendments aim to ensure that the principle of transparency is implemented in proceedings before the Court to a greater extent than in the past. Decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be delivered by a majority of votes. This is the case with Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 5 of the Constitution, as opposed in particular to Article. 120 Constitution, which provides that the Sejm shall adopt the laws by simple majority. The first provision does not determine what majority it is. In addition to the majority of ordinary ones, it is also possible to qualify. The requirement for the amended Article. 99. 1 judgments of the Court of First Instance in full took two-thirds of the votes, increasing only the seriousness and importance of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Art. 2 requires immediate review of the jurisdiction of the formation of the court. In the case of the obligation in the Act to refer the case to the full composition of the case, the standard requires the procedure from the beginning. This is the withdrawal of the procedure but carried out in favour of the applicant. The full composition guarantees a better examination of the case than restricted warehouses. This is, it must be emphasised, pending cases, not those that have already been completed. There's no mention of those in the amendment. Res judicata - the seriousness of the thing judged. Art. 3 allows participants to take advantage of the possibility of opposing the recognition of the case at a secret meeting. This amendment refers to a revised Article. 81. Article 2 and Article 2 93. 1. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 4 novels are being implemented with the objective of ordering them. It is a matter of ordering the law by eliminating the statutory repetitions of the provisions contained in the Constitution and removing the provisions implemented or without object, removing the competitive solutions between the law and the rules of the Sejm. In addition, the provisions considered by the designer to be in breach of the principles of equality or socially unjustified are eliminated. They repeat the constitution and are therefore redundant as well as contrary to the principle of correct legislation. It's about art. 16, Art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2nd sentence 2, Article Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation In turn, the article. 19 and Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 20 are a competitive solution for the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which Removal of the current Article. 2 in the Constitutional Court Act refers to the concept of breaking the division into Warsaw and the rest of Poland. [[Voice from the room: He, he, he.]] The project concerns the transfer of the seat of certain central offices from the capital to other cities in the country. The aim is to value other urban centres, in particular Eastern Poland. The costs of such offices will also be reduced. The transfer of the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal from Warsaw to another city also has this additional advantage, that it will provide greater isolation of judges from the centres of political power... [[Isolation!]] [[Isolation of judges? Shame!]] ...and thus will strengthen their apoliticality and impartiality. [[Why don't you guys go out to the province?]] Similar solutions were adopted in neighbouring countries, e.g. The German Constitutional Tribunal shall have its seat in Karlsruhe... [[Russia!]] ...Slovak - in Košice and Czech - in Brno. [[Voice from the room: What about Russia?]] An appropriate solution will be proposed in the new Constitutional Court Act. [[Upper mouths.]] [[Voice from the room: Lower.]] [[Pacanov's the best.]] The judge of the Constitutional Tribunal may also work at the full-time university. Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 and paragraph 3. 4 of the current law also allows judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to undertake additional activities or other forms of employment than university work. This is contrary to the interests of the State and the Court. The status of the judge and his duties require a focus on judgment. The high remuneration also provides financial stability and it is not necessary for judges to seek additional employment. Such a solution restricting the additional professional activity of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal also strengthens independence. [[Ha! That sounds like a grim joke.]] [[And you don't eliminate this independence?]] Art. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 allows an assessment of the behaviour of the judge before taking up office. Such a solution is an interference in the powers of the Sejm. It is the Sejm who evaluates the attitude and behaviour of the candidate before the election... [[But you judge after, that's the difference: before and after.]] ...and accepts it through an act of choice. The maintenance of the standard would allow the Court of Justice to be touched by the assessment of the Sejm, which would be contrary to the Article. 194 constitutions. Art. 30 restricts the civil right of judges to court and violates the principle of equality in law. The point is that judges in disciplinary proceedings are deprived of the right to be dismissed in the laws of the Member States so far. Every citizen has that right. It is therefore a sign of inequality and limitation of citizens' rights to deprive judges of the right of dismissal. Repeal of the Article Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 is designed to objective the process of assigning cases. The point is to eliminate the rule which, alongside the rule, constitutes a breach in the rule that, at its discretion, the President may choose a formation of the judge and direct it to him without the general rules, to investigate the case. [[Lie!]] [[I'm talking to you young Members, you haven't seen Bolshevik, that's what you have.]] Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 by introducing a breach of the principle of discounting in a very short period of time limits the rights of the Sejm. In practice, this leads to the possibility of examining constitutional applications without the existence of an applicant. It also limits the chance to recreate it. This violates the principle of complaint and art. 188 constitutions. A sustained general solution related to the six-month suspension of the complaint appears sufficient. Art. Paragraph 112. 2 is a possibility of abuse. The Court could assess who actually directs the political party, with far-reaching consequences for it in the proceedings before the Court. Art. Paragraph 125. The Court's staff shall be entitled to take part in the examination of the Tribunal's judicial activities and to assist in the work of the Tribunal's judges. They also regulate the technical issues involved. Similar powers were not granted to employees performing similar tasks, such as in the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. Therefore, maintaining this privilege in the light of the constitutional principle of equality in law is not justified. Such solutions should take general form in the relevant laws. Art. 137a should be repealed as non-essential. Finally, I would like to say that the law does not have any financial implications for the state budget. The Act has a positive social and economic impact. The matter of the law is not covered by European Union law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: scandal!]] [[Court of State!]] [[What was that? All lies!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u137	Thank you, sir. With a formal proposal from Mr Richard Petru. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. 3 point 1 request a break by 3 p.m. 13, until the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Poland appeared in such an important debate. The Prime Minister accused us, a few days ago, of those who defend the Constitution, that the Constitutional Tribunal was blocking the laws that the State is preparing. I'm sorry, these laws aren't in place, you're blocking them. I therefore ask that the Prime Minister and the other Members of the Law and Justice be in the process of this debate, so that we can also find out what laws you have prepared, what is in them and why a change on the Constitutional Court is needed. Mr. Marshal! It's only a matter of half an hour. I understand it's an hour. 13 will still be the whole government, because there will be a vote. So that I have a request on behalf of the Modern Club for a time-out. 13, until the Prime Minister arrives. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u139	Ladies and gentlemen... [[Half an hour.]] [[Voice from the room: Vote.]] This is a customary request on behalf of the club, even though this issue does not... [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] This is not a government project or a matter that directly concerns the government, so the government's presence is not needed during the debate. [[Voice from the room: At all.]] You're delaying the process of this point. I understand the club's applying for a recess by the hour. 13. [[Yes.]] I'm declaring a time-out. 13. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 28 hours 13 min 23]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 22 of the agenda. I inform you that all the formal proposals that have been tabled here will be settled in the voting block. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Allow me to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the Law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. [[It's okay. We know them.]] High Izbo! First of all, let me make a few general remarks about a situation where... [[It's a waste of time.]] ...there was the Sejm and the Constitutional Tribunal, and as a result of this urgent and sudden amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act. It is necessary to remind the High House and the public that it was in the previous term of office of the Sejm that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal prepared a bill for President Bronisław Komorowski. The project was consequently adopted by the majority of the Platform and PSL. And it was none other than Mr Kropiwnicki who tabled an amendment, according to which the Sejm of the previous term of office elected two judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in a way incompatible with the Constitution. By the way, I would just like to remind you that Mr Robert Kropiwnicki was a PhD student of the current President of the Constitutional Court of Prof. Rzepliński. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the hall: Oh! Bravo, bravo!]] It should therefore be asked whether this initiative was merely an initiative by Mr Kropiwnicki... [[That's not true.]] Was it the Platform's initiative or was it the result of other suggestions? [[How embarrassing are you?]] It should also be asked publicly how your editor, Ewa Ivanova, of the Legal Gazeta.: Does the Constitutional Tribunal and the President of the Tribunal not see the problem of the fact that the present and former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal draw up a draft law together with a justification which is then passed on to the President? After all, it must be stressed that the Constitutional Tribunal does not have a legislative initiative. Moreover, as we know, the Constitutional Tribunal cannot even give an opinion on laws. So why this initiative of the tribunal? It is therefore important to remind Parliament that this whole case of the Constitutional Tribunal has its origin in the legislative initiative to which the Constitutional Tribunal itself has contributed. The question should also be asked: What judges took part in the work on this law? Were they, for example, the former Presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal? What professors? [[Where were their parents...]] Because today we know that many of them speak very strongly about the situation that we will call the constitutional crisis. Without questioning the current provisions of the President's power to appoint the Constitutional Tribunal - in the composition of 5, 9, 13 judges - it should also be asked: How was it that, in the last hearing of 3 December, the case was suddenly more serious and after a while it became less apparent? Thus, this whole situation over the last year has seriously undermined the confidence of the High House and the public in the Constitutional Tribunal. It is therefore necessary to amend, which limits or eliminates the possibility of discretionary time limits for hearings or appointment of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, finally clearly define the procedures for examining cases and reduces or eliminates the possibility of manipulating time limits and compositions of the Constitutional Tribunal. We are therefore making major changes in this aspect of the Constitutional Tribunal's action. It will not be possible to manipulate neither the composition of the tribunal nor the time limits for court proceedings, so that the Constitutional Tribunal will race against the parliament, who will first adopt the law and who will first repeal it. Because that's what it's been like over the last many years, and we've met with these examples many times. [[Applause]] Therefore, the key changes are the following. The Court shall adjudicate in full. There's no way to juggle the tribunal. [[Austria.33.]] So that 3 judges of the five-member squad decide whether the bill will be a law or not. Because the view, often mistaken, of three judges cannot question the will of the entire High House, the Sejm, the Senate, and the President. The next point is that the decisions are to be made by a majority. Two-thirds of the votes. This will result in the vote of one judge or two judges not deciding this, not another direction of recognition, but a qualified majority deciding on the judgment. This will result in the seriousness of case law, this caselaw will be uniform and will not change from term to term. I would also like to stress that the proposal for a change is an extremely important initiative. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Constitutional Tribunal is in the heat of political warfare. We see media chatting under the Constitutional Tribunal, which heat the atmosphere. The Constitutional Tribunal must be removed from Warsaw. There are many beautiful cities on the east wall. [[Applause]] For example, such cities are: Think about... [[Voice from the room: Think about it!]] ... Suwałki, Ełk... [[Voice from the room: Szczecin!]] ... Lublin, the Reichs. And I think... [[The voice from the hall: Bucharest!]] ...in these cities... [[Mr. Marshal, financial punishment!]] ... The Constitutional Tribunal... [[Financial punishment!]] ...can perform his role and function.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u142	Mr. Marshal! To sum up... [[Voice from the room: Financial penalty!]] ...because I see Mr. Stefan Niesiołowski is very excited today... [[Applause]] [[$3,000!]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha.]] In summary, this amendment will improve [[♪ The bell ♪]] the organisation, mode and mode of action of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Four thousand!]] Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports it in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u143	Thank you. Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. [[Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.]] [[Voice from the room: He did not speak, unfortunately.]] Please leave the speaker, sir. [[Sit down!]] Mr President, please leave the speaker. I didn't let you speak. Mr. Boris Budka... [[But the lie has been told!]] Please leave the podium. Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. [[Financial punishment!]] [[Voice from the room: Kara immediately!]] Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Platform Club, has a voice. [[Say what he would say...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u144	Dear President, Mr. Marshal! The absent Prime Minister! High Izbo! Well, you have presented another legal bubble, but before I get to it, I would like to respond to all the false words that we have just heard from the Member who was here before me. We are discussing the bill on amending the Constitutional Court Act, and you will be like a mantra to repeat things that have already been judged by the tribunal. The greatest harm... [[Because you don't get it!]] ...which you have done is how you have treated the pillar of the democratic rule of law, [[Applause]] foundation - principle of division of authorities. This is the country you've called... [[June 25th!]] ...fire, and now you're pouring gasoline. You add gasoline to something that is already the last fuse that protects citizens from the unfettered appetite of the majority for fundamental rights and civil liberties. [[Applause]] You're the authors of the wrong changes. Night voting in the Sejm will not obscure what you are doing with the Constitutional Tribunal. You insult the president sitting here, insult everyone who has the audacity to have a different opinion than the Law and Justice. That's never gonna be okay. Never. [[Applause]] there will be no consent in this House to the personal reluctance that the lack of respect for the constitution of your leader is the basis for destroying the democratic rule of law. [[Applause]] You're proposing to paralyze the tribunal, and those aren't the bare words. There are nearly 200 cases that are currently awaiting investigation: constitutional complaints, applications by the Ombudsman, legal questions by the courts. You want all this to be dealt with in full squad? Why? So the citizen can't find the place where his case will be considered? Things will be going on for a dozen years. Just because you can't understand that in 1997 it was the nation that adopted this system and only changed the constitution, [[Applause]] You can change that. I share time with my esteemed colleague, so right now I'm filing a motion to reject this bill at first reading. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u145	Thank you. Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, who will use the rest of club time. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u146	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start by quoting:.The Constitutional Tribunal is an integral part of the system of the state of law, so it was, is and will remain, as long as Poland has such character, the nature of the state of law. Let's hope it's forever. I do not think anything can prevent this from happening," said President Lech Kaczyński in 2006. He didn't expect the Law and Justice to stand in the way. [[Voice from the room: Yes! Bravo!]] The Prime Minister mentioned yesterday that we were showing pride and arrogance. Every government sometimes shows pride and arrogance, but you guys beat Guinness's record when it comes to pride... [[No one's gonna beat you!]] ...and arrogance, these past few weeks. [[Applause]] In fact, you were going to prepare a package of reforms that were good for the citizen, and you were going to destroy the institutional foundations of the state. Where are these reforms good for the citizen? Destroying the Constitutional Court... [[Wait a minute.]] ...who upholds civil rights, is it a reform of good for the citizen? Destroying a civil servant who's guarding a good, professional civilian service? Or finally an assassination attempt on public media? [[Arabic! Arabic!]] I remind you that in the article. There's a torture ban on 40, and I think you're trying to torture us with these public media over the next few years. [[Applause]] [[I could use it.]] You want to create facade institutions, and then, unfortunately, the worst possible comparisons will come out of your mouth. How do you want to rule Poland? By stigmatizing political opponents, dividing Poles into castes and sorta? Is this your idea of making a good change? For one more quote: I will allow myself, of one of the finest American lawyers, the Supreme Court Judge Brandeis: The experience teaches us that by defending the rights of freedom, the most important thing to be on guard is when the intentions of the rulers can be positive. The greatest threat to freedom is brought by fanatics and overzealers with good intentions, who have contempt for the law. I think we do. [[Applause]] to deal with exactly the same story here. And in the end, I'm gonna say one thing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One of Poles' most beloved civil liberties is the right to be left alone. Leave the citizens alone, leave this institutional and constitutional fabric of the state alone, because really destroying this isn't gonna do you any good. Trust me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u148	Stanisław Jerzy Lec... [[That's a big line.]] ...he said one simple thing: a good constitution is a constitution that...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u149	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u150	...does not violate the constitution of citizens. Do not violate our constitution. [[Applause]] [[Time's up, sir.]] [[We don't believe it!]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u151	Thank you, sir. Member Tomasz Romankowski, Kukiz Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about a fight here, a fight. I would suggest to the High House that we calm down our emotions and think... [[Not now.]] ...we have the President of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[Not for the first time.]] ...how to resolve this constitutional crisis. With regard to the bill submitted, our club is judging it negatively because it will lead to a pernamental... [[Permanent. That's not the word.]] ...stop proceedings for constitutional complaints and any other procedures that are currently pending before the tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in which we are putting in place a basic full composition consisting of 13 judges, although we know that these judges currently do not have and we will not have, is to block the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. The only good change proposed by the applicants is the proposal to transfer the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal from Warsaw to another city, in the justification we read that to Eastern Poland. Here we think primarily of Lublin or Piotrków Trybunalski. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to thank you... [[Eastern Poland? In Piotrków?]] ...on behalf of our club... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: In Piotrków, I am in favour.]] [[And I'm behind Wroclaw.]] Mr. Marshal, if you'll please be quiet... I would like to thank all parliamentary clubs, in particular the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice and the Club of the Polish People's Party, for approving our proposal to resolve this constitutional crisis, because our club was the only one who came out with this initiative. [[Applause]] We are very pleased that you want to end this crisis with us, which does not really serve the High House, neither the tribunal nor the nation nor the Polish state. The Polish state is one and the Polish nation is now divided into supporters of the Constitutional Tribunal and its opponents. The nation is one and must be united. We also welcome the attitude of the Parliamentary Club Civic Platform and the Modern Club... [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...by expressing a negative attitude, albeit kind. We are counting on signatures from you, this is about the direction of amending the Constitution in the area of those provisions that will allow us to resolve the crisis that we have right now. Allow me very briefly to present our proposals to the High House. We propose to extend the membership of the Constitutional Tribunal to 18 people - this proposal may be subject to changes in the work, which I believe will start next week in the Extraordinary Commission. Another issue concerns the introduction of a qualified majority of 2/3 votes in the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, the determination of a special cognition in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal Act for the Supreme Court, so that the foundations of our civilization, Latin civilization, are preserved - no one can be a judge in his own case. Another proposal is to identify the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal from among the judges elected by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as a zero solution, i.e. the moment we introduce an amendment to the Constitution, there will be a choice of the entire composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. Let's end this fight for the Constitutional Tribunal, ladies and gentlemen. Poles expect reforms from us, and social peace is needed for reforms. We know that there are political environments that benefit from this - out of this chaos, out of this confusion, out of this street policy. We want to work. We want to change Poland. That is why, on behalf of the Kukiz Club15, we declare that we will abstain from voting on this law and count on your support in relation to the issue of amending the Constitution. We want to resolve this crisis, because this law that you are probably going to adopt today is bringing this crisis to a higher level, and we don't want it to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Petru will speak on behalf of the Posel Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I regret that the Prime Minister is not with us, but I just saw that she was for a moment. I will ask Prime Minister Gliński and Prime Minister Gowin to pass on these words to the Prime Minister, which I am about to convey. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not the tribunal that's blocking the laws, you're blocking them because you're not reporting them. I wanted to point out that 500 PLN per child for the first time promised Jarosław Kaczyński on 20 January 2014. It's been two years. 28 March 2015 [[A month!]] 2014 On 28 March 2015, 500 PLN per child promised Andrzej Duda to Poles. Prime Minister Beata Szydło promised 500 PLN per child on June 20th. The question is, have you not been able to prepare these laws within 6 months, and in 3 days you are able to prepare a law on changes to the Constitutional Court? Note that a similar situation is taking place when it comes to medicines for the elderly. This proposal was tabled on 20 June at the PiS Convention. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem does not concern the tribunal. You can't file these laws because there's no money for it. Admit it, you don't have the money. Your Minister of Health says straight up: everyone over the age of 75 won't get their meds for free. Because passwords must be short. The limit on money is that if we gave them all drugs for free, the budget wouldn't stand it. [[Speaking of which...]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have no money for this. Do not hide behind the Constitutional Tribunal. I therefore have a question: Why are you afraid to consult such things as the Constitutional Court Act with the public? [[But with who? With you?]] Why are you reporting this... [[He's afraid of society.]] ...as a parliamentary motion, not to consult with other ministers, but especially with the public? You talked a lot about social negotiations, about the possibility of talking to Poles. You don't give that opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, please get to work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u155	Thank you very much. The remaining time will be used by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Fellow Members of the PiS! [[Voice from the Chamber: Law and Justice.]] I understand you want to act like a disciplined army, but at this point, the PiS army looks like it's made up of the privates that the corporal commands. [[But what corporal? You'd like a corporal like that.]] Do not allow yourself to be reduced to the role of a non-free voting machine. [[Applause]] You are Members of the Polish Parliament, not Members of Jarosław Kaczyński. Ladies and gentlemen! [[The sound system is, you don't have to scream.]] In this room, in practically all groups, there are many people who have real respect for the fact that they fought for free Poland, not only by word, but also by risking their health and life. But there are also those who undermine Polish democracy. The Constitutional Tribunal is one of the barriers that should protect Polish democracy in the future. There are time measures in politics other than here and now. Maybe it's hard for you right now. Imagine that, but no power is eternal... [[You're too young to say that.]] ...and you will miss the independent and respected Constitutional Court. Despite the fundamental nature of the amendments to the Constitutional Tribunal Act, it is being examined at an alarming rate, without the necessary legal consultations, including. with the National Judicial Council. It should be stressed that what you are proposing is not a solution to the conflict, it has nothing to do with the repair. This law is directed at here and now to flood the Constitutional Tribunal with cases so that it cannot rule on the constitutionality of the acts which you propose. The objective is evident, it is to block the possibility of acting by the Constitutional Tribunal, unless the Tribunal decides to sanction the election of 5 judges made by the Sejm of the 8th term of office in a manner contrary to the Constitution. You're proposing to amend the article. 44, introducing full-time ruling as standard. After all, this will prolong the trial time before the Constitutional Tribunal. This will hit citizens first and foremost - it will be taken away from them, guaranteed so far in the Constitution, the right to court. You're proposing that there be a two-thirds majority requirement in court. What happens if this requirement is not met? Isn't the ruling gonna go away? On the most important issues, there will be no more controversial decisions? Judgments will be made in matters that are simple, so as not to say, trivial. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear President Kaczyński, I have practically never agreed with you, nor will I admire you, but your political effectiveness as a supporter of democracy I fear. If the idea of breaking up the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal is to be the first to propose, then I am concerned. [[♪ The bell ♪]] what draft laws you will report at the end of your governments. [[Time's up, Member.]] On behalf of the Modern Club, I request that this project be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u157	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u158	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is extremely difficult to refer to a corrupting, devastating act that applicants call repair. The piss has had such a tendency, and it's been for years. It predicts repair, good change, then it spoils and destroys. First of all, we would like to express our surprise that President Andrzej Duda's home environment - PiS - has trampled on the good initiative of passing the debate on the exit from this constitutional crisis on the National Development Council, so that, as the President stressed, there, with various backgrounds, we can seek a good solution and a way out of this situation. We are surprised because you put the President, ladies and gentlemen, in a very awkward situation, showing that, in fact, his role in this political arrangement, which has arrived, is becoming very marginal. But I'm moving on to the text of the bill we're investigating. The draft provides that the resolutions of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be adopted by a majority of 2/3 in the presence of at least 13 judges of the Tribunal, including the President or Vice-President of the Tribunal, unless otherwise provided by the Act. This, ladies and gentlemen, in practice, means a very important limitation, if not to paralyse the ruling of the tribunal. The draft foresees that the oath of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal will be made to the Marshal of the Sejm. This is actually an interesting change, because perhaps the PiS finally allows for a scenario of taking a vow from three constitutionally elected judges, but does not want to involve the President in this so as not to embarrass him more, and it turns him into a marshal; and perhaps this change is dictated by the fact that the President trusts you more in the marshal than the President. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Take it easy. God!]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr, to the point please.]] Article 1, point 4, of the amending law amends the ruling by the tribunal. In fact, the change is based on the fact that in the vast majority of cases the Constitutional Tribunal will have to rule in full. To date, the Court has ruled in full in only a few cases. Moreover, until now the full squad meant a minimum of 9 judges, now - in the project - the full squad is a minimum of 13 judges, so only 2 can be absent or excluded from the jury. It's too small a safety valve, in our opinion. The Constitutional Tribunal is too important an institution for the absence of three judges to cause the constitutional authority to fail. They are repealed in the project, among others. important provisions about Warsaw as the seat of the tribunal. This is really ridiculous. It is extremely important that the existing provision of the Article is deleted. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 a law which provides that the judge of the Tribunal shall also be liable disciplinaryly for his proceedings before taking office if he has failed to comply with the obligation of the incumbent state office or has proved unworthy of the office of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. And so you could calculate the doubts that were written in the project. But there are also doubts beyond the content of this project. The first plea against applicants, ladies and gentlemen, in our opinion: Why do you use the law to change the constitutional order? Look for a constitutional majority and then tamper with the constitutional order, which is an important element of which the Constitutional Tribunal is. Why are you blowing up the presumption of constitutionality of laws that were in force in our country? Finally, the question which was very exploited here in the speech of the Prime Minister yesterday, who spoke very much about the role of the Constitution here. Why do you, ladies and gentlemen, underestimate the role of the Constitutional Tribunal? After all, it is a well-served and needed Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Only the Poles saw through you. The Poles have seen through you that this is not an organ that is supposed to stand against your good changes. Because after good changes, when the budget runs out, bad ideas may come, bad ideas for Poles, who will restrict freedom and civil liberties... [[You've got 5%...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u159	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u160	...and then, the Poles understood it, will much, much worse. And finally...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u161	Thank you, sir, time is up. [[They barely crawled over the bar.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u162	...the Prime Minister said these words here the day before yesterday: you were arrogant, delicious and made decisions over the heads of the citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u163	Mr President, time is up. You're welcome to go to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u164	What's the way to proceed with this bill... [[Lie!]] ...what are you doing and what you're doing? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Klawiter, an independent Member, will now speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From the beginning, the Republic's right has supported a strong response to the violation of democracy by the previous parliamentary majority and the right to elect judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, due to the Sejm of the current term of office and the social majority which it represents. We strongly opposed the rejection of any compromise by the liberal opposition and the involvement of the tribunal in this conflict. We supported the appointment of new judges to the tribunal. But today it is the responsibility of the majority to rebuild social peace and restore authority to the constitutional court. The amendment of its rules does not serve this purpose and should not be supported neither to aggravate the state crisis nor to question the fundamentals of constitutional democracy. This is also the responsibility of the idea of rebuilding respect and community in public life, supported by Poles in the presidential election. In the name of these principles, we encourage the President of the Republic of Poland to engage in political arbitration and work to break this state crisis. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u167	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a list of questions right now. I'm setting a question time for one minute. He was the first one to sign up... [[Voice from the room: Formal motion, marshal, formal motion.]] [[No, no, no, no, no, ……]] With a formal application?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Platform, pursuant to Article. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I ask the marshal to increase the time to ask questions to 2 minutes. [[Applause]] We didn't have much time, just five minutes for club performances. You started by imposing penalties on parliamentarians for exceeding your time. This is important enough that I hope you agree to do so much for democracy - from one minute to two minutes. We're asking you to. [[Ah...]] [[At least that's it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u169	I would ask you to ask the first of my fellow Members, Mr Adam Abramowicz. [[Voice from the room: Is it or isn't it?]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] [[How long?]] Would you like to vote on a formal motion from one minute to one and a half? [[Voices from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: We don't have to...]] [[What's the decision?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes, on two!]] Of course, one and a half minutes, okay. [[Maybe the president will agree.]] Mr Adam Abramowicz, club of Law and Justice. But I'm asking you to follow the discipline of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Constitutional Tribunal has dealt with the banking enforcement title several times. First time in 1995 Each time, the Constitutional Tribunal ruled that the Bank's enforcement title was in line with the Constitution until 2015, when it issued a judgment that, however, it was not compatible - it infringed the principle of equality. The fact that the power of banks to settle disputes with their clients disregards the principle of equality was known by every conscious person. There was no need for legal education for this, but the Constitutional Tribunal did not see it for years, and until today the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, who submitted a separate sentence to the judgment, does not see it. If BTE is unconstitutional in the 20,000th year... [[Two thousand fifteen.]] ...it was incompatible also earlier, since the beginning of its existence. Where, then, did the previous judgments come from? I have a question: Will not the introduction of full court ruling prevent such situations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u171	Thank you very much. I see they're still willing to sign up for questioning... If not, I will close the list of questions that have been asked. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, the Civic Platform Club, will speak next. [[Voice from the room: But what about this time?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u172	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, it is worth presenting a quote from the Supreme Court's opinion to your resolution bill. A complete lack of understanding of the idea of constitutional justice is due to the content of the argument that the amendments proposed in the Act are designed to match the legal solutions to the programme intentions of the parliamentary majority. As the Supreme Court says, this is a perverse assumption of the constitutional functions of the Constitutional Tribunal in a democratic state of law. But as you can see, not everyone thinks so. It is worth referring to one more case. Two days ago Vladimir Putin signed a law allowing the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation to reject decisions of international human rights authorities. Putin said: "We haven't come up with anything new here. European countries are going basically the same way. [[Voice from the room: Civic Platform!]] And this is a question to applicants, but actually also to the government: Who did the president of Russia mean: whether France or Spain, or Poland under Jarosław Kaczyński? The Constitution is binding regardless of the outcome of the election. Unless we're changing standards. [[Game in the O.R.]] Mr PSL said well that there is actually a complete reversal of concepts. It was supposed to be a good change, and it's not a good change or a good change. Then when you talk about the repair bill, you know it's going to be a completely destructive bill. It was supposed to be better, and it's better not to say. There's a lot in your campaign. You also talked about Poland in ruins. You just didn't say it wasn't a description of the facts, it was your election promise. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Sitarski, Kukiz Club15, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Government representatives! The decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal shall have universal force and shall be final. My questions concern the following changes proposed in print 122. Art. Ten bills. Please tell me how many judges will be in full order today. Constitutional Court: 15 or 20? You are proposing to repeal the article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. According to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The General Assembly shall meet at meetings convened under the chairmanship of the President of the Tribunal, the text of the Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 makes no sense in the old and also in the new sense. Art. 12 and the question of paragraph 12. 2a and 2b. Mr. Reporter, as far as lips are concerned. 2a, should the members of the General Assembly be restricted to the submission of candidates for President? About the mouth. 2b, the original record of the selection of candidates for President is simpler and the formula for their selection is more accessible. Art. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Well, according to the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 President of the Tribunal appoints the President of the Republic of Poland, then why is the oath taken before the Marshal of the Sejm? Are the proposals already accepted for the new seat of the tribunal? I have such doubts about paragraph 11. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Truskolaski, the Modern Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, the PiS introduced a proposal for a law which significantly reduces the rank of the Constitutional Tribunal and stubbornly stubborn it. Isn't there enough law against the Constitution? Why do you want the judges to take their vows before the Marshal of the Sejm and not - as before - before the President? Such practices were already applied in 1985. After all, he will be President Andrzej Duda for four and a half years. Your president, because I don't think anybody's deluded that he's the president of all Poles anymore. This is a reduction in the rank and role of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as a reduction in the role of the President and at the same time a removal of responsibility. Will the next step be to take vows before the marshal by all common court judges? Why aren't you working on fulfilling the electoral promises, just destroying the democratic structures of the state? You're talking about fixing the state, and you're really destroying it. The state repair by the PiS is like repairing a modern car with a hammer and a pickaxe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u177	Thank you very much. Ms Anna April, Club Law and Justice, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years, and especially in the last 8 years, the city of Radom has been affected by the introduction of very important institutions to other cities such as the city of Warsaw. The tax office was liquidated, the tax office, the tax office, the Polish Post office was transferred. This was the work of the last eight years of government in Radom. I hope, I ask you very much, and I urge you to consider that the Constitutional Tribunal should find its place in this beautiful and historic city, which is Radom. Radom deserves the Constitutional Tribunal to be there. [[With a good president.]] I hope that colleagues from the Civic Platform will support this proposal, even for a simple reason: as compensation, as a kind of implementation of a sustainable development policy, because this is what the Union puts emphasis on. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it would be worth looking at other cities, not just such cities as Warsaw and Poznań. And this is my appeal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u179	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! She's not here. High Izbo! Not Radom, just Przemyśl, maybe Lublin, or maybe Bieszczady, Mrs Bieszczady. You've heard there's not one sentence among you either. [[What's wrong, Bieszczady?]] The important thing is to get out and leave... [[What do you have against the Bieszczady?]] ...those who have worked there for decades for Poland. You want to destroy an institution that has repeatedly taken the side of the weakest. Let me remind you of the benefits of administrative penalties for the elderly, the poor, the beneficial... [[...on the side of the ubeks.]] UB, sir, check the ranks where the people from this Ubecki camera are now and what they are doing, what projects they are doing. For the benefit of citizens, for the innocent there are decisions on mining arrests. Does that ring a bell? Beneficial for thousands of Polish families settlement on care benefits. It was the tribunal that lifted solutions that were detrimental to thousands of people, restoring these benefits to thousands of Polish families. I have the following questions: Why should this last institution which is guarding Polish families, people who are vulnerable often from the soullessness of the Polish administration disappear? Will you consult this, this project, perhaps with the opinions of the Venice Council of Europe Commission? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe has repeatedly expressed his concern about what you are doing with the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Game in the O.R.]] Is it true, here's a question for Minister Ziobra... [[Time's up!]] [[But what is it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u181	Mr President, the time has passed, please make your way to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u182	...that you've just dissolved the Civil Law Code Commission...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u183	Mr President, don't be nervous, just stop.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u184	...a committee that worked for 20 years? Is it because the Committee on Civil Law Codification has judges in the Supreme Court who have issued a devastating opinion for you? [[Applause]] [[Time's up.]] [[Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki shuts down Mr Krzysztof Brejza's microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u185	Thank you very much. The High Sejm, there are scouts at the gallery who brought us the light of Bethlehem. Let's say hello. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Members get up, give a round of applause]] Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Club Law and Justice, has the floor. Excuse me, Mrs Monica Rosa, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u186	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You have written in the amendment that the tribunal is adjudicating in full, i.e. 13 persons, and judgments are passed by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. Most cases at the Constitutional Court are constitutional complaints from citizens. People ask about days off from work, parking issues, process costs. I would like to know if the applicant has calculated and will answer my question as to how much longer the process may be, how long will such processes last? How many processes does it have at all as if it doesn't have a final effect? How does this entry relate to the article? 45 constitutions? The Constitution says: "Everyone has the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay by a competent, independent, impartial and independent court. Ladies and gentlemen, you are not hitting judges, you are not hitting opposition, you are hitting ordinary citizens with this amendment. And unfortunately, this situation resembles a book called Orwell's Animal Farm. At first they were all equal, then they were all equal, but some were equal. We all know how this book ends. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Club Law and Justice, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The role of the Constitutional Tribunal is to rule on the compatibility of laws with the Constitution. The practice in recent years, both for the President of Rzepliński and the previous presidents, has shown that the Constitutional Tribunal has often been involved in a political dispute. This often involved the appointment of time limits before, for example, the entry into force of the law, or often, in my opinion or in the opinion of experts, such manipulation or juggling of the composition of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, so that the sentence is as it should be. Very often it was known in advance what this sentence would be. There were a lot of things like that. I'll remind you of the case of the vetting or the OFE bill, many, many other cases. In cases where the Constitutional Tribunal was to uphold the Constitution, it often turned out that it was guarding the party interests of the majority that ruled for 8 years. I have a question for the rapporteur: Mr President, do these changes that we are proposing give the President of the Tribunal the opportunity to juggle the composition of the judges ruling, or do they give the opportunity to juggle the time limits of the hearing, or will this be clearly and precisely regulated? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u189	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Act of grace for a party colleague, Deputy Minister responsible for the roads to which a driving licence has been taken twice, Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs with prosecutors' charges, [[Applause]] The head of the agricultural agency with prosecutorial charges, the president of the PKP, were already, TW Mieczysław, an attempt to take a picture of the presentation before seeing it. Here I have to say that you even outrun the Gomelka team because they first saw the 'Dziady' and then took them off. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Communists and thieves - this, it turned out, in your mouth they are fondling, because now it turns out that we are co-workers of the Gestapo to you. Ladies and gentlemen, now you're going to the Constitutional Court. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] What do you have to do with law and justice? Maybe you should change the name of the party. Don't you think it's about time we changed the name of the party? [[Applause]] Because you really don't have much in common with law and justice. [[More than you and the citizen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u191	Mr Adam Szłapka, the Modern Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! How is it possible that such a fundamental law for the regime of the Republic of Poland as the Constitutional Tribunal Act is reported as a parliamentary project, without consulting, expert opinions and non-governmental organisations? Fundamental changes cannot be made on the knee at such a rate. You want to repeal the article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. What's that supposed to do? In my opinion, this is a confession to the fact that the judges sworn in by President Duda are unworthy of this office. You can tweet nonsense and become a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to reiterate the words that have already been said in this House, the words of President Lech Kaczyński, because I believe that they should be discussed today: the Constitutional Tribunal is an integral part of the system of the state of law, so it was, and will remain, until Poland is of such a nature. Let's hope it's forever. This is what Lech Kaczyński said on 30 November 2006. I would like to give this quote to Mr Piotrowicz wishing that history would not remember you as a gravedigger of the Constitutional Tribunal. You still have a chance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u193	Mr Józef Lassota, Club of the Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For a few weeks now, we have been observing a spectacle that could be described with such words as in the martial law it was defined that it was working together and in agreement. Well, together and in agreement Law and Justice with his caress, your attorney of martial law, perhaps the marionette, Mr Piotrowicz, is trying, in agreement with the president, to try and probably vanquish... [[Count on the words, sir.]] ... The Constitutional Tribunal, of course, using various types of insults in the meantime, various types of epithets. I would also like to quote to you the words of Lech Kaczyński. Lecha Kaczyński, who, as President of the Republic of Poland on 4 November 2006, handed over his nomination as President of the Constitutional Tribunal to Mr Stepnia, said: The Constitutional Tribunal is, is and will be an authority of... [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] ...as everyone in Poland noticed, urgently this independence guarding. I don't think anything can stand in the way of that, and no one expects that kind of change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If these words are also a message to you...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u195	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u196	...that, Mr Kaczynski, do you not stain your brother in this way...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u197	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u198	...Mr. President. Wouldn't that indicate that you would also consider him... [[Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki turns off the microphone to Mr Joseph Lassocie]] ...for a Pole of worse sort. [[Applause]] [[Sit down!]] Mr President, I would like to ask you very much to follow the timeline. Mr Michał Stasiński, an independent club, has the floor. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Modern, Mr. Marshal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of Central Poland, I would like to ask for the non-sharing of Poles this time according to the geographical criterion and for the inhabitants of Northern, Western and Southern Poland. So much for geography. [[Voice from the room: I'm in.]] Following your reasoning and your arguments about the need to transfer the tribunal outside Warsaw, you are mainly talking about savings. And maybe this is an idea that will allow you to tighten your budget, because if we think about what savings it will cost to transfer the Constitutional Tribunal outside Warsaw, then maybe we should also move the Sejm and the government and have a Sejm, for example. in Kłodzek, the Constitutional Tribunal in Suwałki, and the government in Świnoujście. [[That's a great idea.]] On the other hand, with regard to this legal framework, which you are proposing to us, the very specific questions are: Who decides on the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal? According to what procedure is this decision to be taken, and what criteria should be taken into account? That's not on your project. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u200	Thank you. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would certainly surprise you, but I would like to congratulate PiS and his leader Jarosław Kaczyński. You guys are great. Again, Poland is loud in Europe. Everyone's talking about a coup... [[You're funny, sir.]] ...everyone's talking about breaking the Constitution, and that's after the first attempt, and today's the next one. We have a new bill amending the Constitutional Court Act and this law is called the Recovery Act. [[She's a repairer.]] But it's a muzzle bill. You want to introduce in this bill solutions that will completely paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. [[That's not true.]] You want to limit citizens' right to court, and that's what citizens won't give you, because citizens, according to the article. 45 constitutions have the right to have their cases resolved quickly by the judiciary. [[To the righteous.]] [[It hasn't touched you in eight years.]] [[Keep your voice down.]] And I wanted to ask, are you a brave man or a coward? [[Mr. Chairman...]] Why are you afraid of the Constitutional Court? [[Applause]] What vileness you have prepared, what draft laws you want to impose on Poland that you are starting governments... [[To the committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u202	Mr Pierce, you need to cool your emotions a little bit.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u203	...from the fight against the Constitutional Tribunal, from the fight against the tribunal, which is the guarantee of the rule of law in Poland, from the foundation of constitutionality? [[Mr, there are microphones here, you have nothing to shout at.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u204	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of southern Poland, I wanted to ask for the establishment of the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal in Gliwice. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We will consider this.]] [[Voice from the hall: We're starting to laugh at this.]] As far as the bill is concerned. The bill's amendment contains many logical errors and internally contradictory solutions leading to conflict situations. I will refer to the proposed text of the article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2a, which reads: The application of the candidate may be submitted by at least three members of the assembly. A member of the assembly may submit only one candidate. And so I have a question because the rule is unclear and inconsistent: Can each member submit one candidate, or can only three members do so? What will happen if each member of the assembly appoints another candidate and does not indicate three? What if only one or two candidates are appointed by three members of the assembly and the assembly is required to present three candidates to the president? And why introduce such a bizarre design for a candidate? These are my basic questions, because the puriazum, which is to regulate in such an important law of a systemic nature the way in which candidates are put on the ballot and the way the votes are cast, I will not comment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Święcicki, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor. [[Oh, the secretary.]] [[Speaker: Secretary of the Central Committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the opinion of 9 civil organisations has come to us, which clearly state, and I quote: The entry into force of the amendments proposed in the Constitutional Court Act will lead to the paralysis of this institution. [[And we got the opinion of the Attorney General.]] These organisations indicate that paralysis will prevent citizens from exercising their rights. The Helsinki Foundation writes in its comments, and I quote: In particular, it is necessary to consider that the constitution is being violated - art. 188 and 79 - the actual purpose of the Act, which aims to prevent the Court from fulfilling its constitutional tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that the tribunal has repeatedly, this manipulated and supposedly politicised tribunal, defended citizens against the position of the Civic Platform. [[Good.]] This applies to the amount of tax-free, this applies to demonstrations, this applies to the making available of court records, to fees for the second course of study and to many other things. He defended the compatibility of the law with the constitution. Also in these last two judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal in the five-member composition, where he ruled on the Constitutional Court Act, there were two judges, Mr President, on whom you voted, elected to this tribunal. And they took a clear, unanimous position, and these five-person warehouses took over. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So there's no manipulation of the tribunal, but there's some paranoia of yours...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u208	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u209	...that the tribunal needs to be subjugated and paralyzed in order to introduce no one knows what laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u210	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This unpleasant tradition of this House is slowly becoming a situation in which laws which go under the deliberations of the Supreme Chamber do not consult the bodies which are entitled to do so, they are not invited to discuss. That is why I wanted to give these 1.5 minutes to the President, the first President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Poland, who addressed his opinion to the High House, and quote passages, because there will be no time for a longer discussion. It is necessary - I quote now the letter, the opinion of the President - to maintain a balance between the various authorities, ensuring that the bodies constituting the law do not violate in their far-reaching freedom of constitutional principles and values protecting all citizens of the Republic of Poland, and that is because the political position of the tribunal is one of the few guarantees preventing the majority dictatorship in the State. Another passage, which refers to other provisions: The project assumes, first of all, that in most cases the tribunal is to proceed in full court, meaning the composition of 13 judges. Decisions are to be made by a majority of 2/3. This means potentially huge delays, and indeed, the paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more passage: A complete misunderstanding of the idea of constitutional justice is due to the content of the justification...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u212	Thank you very much, sir. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u213	...thesis that the case proposed in the Act would be used to match the legal solutions to the programme intentions of the parliamentary majority. That's not right. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u214	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Nowak, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It wasn't that long ago that we had a president who was a constitutional guardian. Not long ago we had a marshal who allowed everyone in this room to say what they thought was appropriate. And recently, after the elections on 25 October, it suddenly turned out that the president, as a constitutional defender, the constitutional guardian, became a hostage to one party - you, Mr President, that is very sad. Suddenly it turns out that the marshal is increasingly limiting our statements and becomes merely a guardian of the ruling majority. [[Applause]] And what about this moment? You want us to do it? And today we have been given this choice in the proposal for an amendment: let us now take the vow not the President as guardian of the Constitution, but let him take the oath from the judges the guardian of the ruling majority. It's on symbol rights. [[Applause]] High Izbo! No more freedom. This is the time of the guardians of the majority in this Chamber, which makes this freedom increasingly limited, so that it is only about freedom, it is about interpretation, it is about making the rule of law. I'm afraid the time of the rule of law has passed on October 25th. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[June.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u216	Mr Witold Zembaczyński, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u217	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear President, I have the irrefutable impression that the coincidence of the date of the premiere of the PiS amendment of the Constitutional Court Act with the current premiere of the film Star Wars is not an accident. You stand in your way towards the Constitutional Court on the dark side of power [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] and You're pushing his functions to the systemic margin. You are building your PiS dark empire passionately, where even the constitution will not stand in your way, because so-called. The IV RP is not enough, so I'm going to quote you from the definition of the dark side of power: At first, the dark side of power tempts... [[Voice from the room: Assassin.]] ...the ability to gain great power, power and advanced skills in the use of power easily and quickly. In time, however, it turns out that it requires more than it gives, and gradually corrupts its followers. Hence my question. You are proposing 13 judges on key issues. As a general rule, the appointment as judge of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be as a crowning of the legal career. Aren't you afraid of the situation that, out of pure personal indisposition, for example health, there might be a paralysis of this institution's work... [[Voice from the room: That's the point.]] ...where 13 judges will be needed to judge, and it could be [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just impossible? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u218	Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u219	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I'll start with the fact that I'm out of this worse sort, and I'll add that I'm from Silesia, so from the camouflage German option. [[Touchdown, applause]] Question for Members of Law and Justice. Do you know what lies behind the word "dictature" in the dictionary? I quote: it is the power of an individual or a narrow group, the characteristics characteristic of the dictatorship are among others. Using force against political opponents - it is not written that physical - disrespect for civil rights or freedom of lawmaking. [[Voice from the room: This is just one of the definitions.]] Ladies and gentlemen, President Kaczyński is dreaming of absolute power, but power is corrupting. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. [[Who said that?]] Law and Justice have not won a constitutional majority and you want to change the constitution by law, and that is simply unacceptable. We are aware that the President and the Prime Minister are under the authority of the President. Apparently, the Constitutional Tribunal doesn't. I have questions for the rapporteur's prosecutor. Why has the current number of 9 judges in full court proved insufficient? Please state your reasons. Second question: Where will the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal be? Mr. Marshal mentioned yesterday in the media that it would be Przemyśl. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Think about it when you look at the map, it's close to Jarosław. I understand the point is for the tribunal to be within Jarosław's grasp. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the hall: How witty.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u220	Time's up. Mrs Cornelia Wróblewska, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me quote the appeal made by NGOs to all Members by email, the appeal and the opinion on the risks arising from the adoption of the Constitutional Tribunal Act. Honourable Members and Messengers! We ask you, do not give us as a gift for the holidays of the bill that strikes the rights and freedoms of citizens. This request was signed, among others. organizations such as Amnesty International, Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, Institute for Law and Society, Institute for Public Rights, the Civil Network Watchdog Polska and the Association for Legal Intervention. I have a question for you. Mr. President, how in the Catholic country can the most conservative party throw to the citizens at Christmas such a box of Pandora? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Work on your style.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u222	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The populist illusion about the dislocation of the Constitutional Tribunal somewhere in the country can only be punctuated with the words of the song "Do not transfer the capital to Krakow." I know, however, that the Law and Justice are righteous and just. And if anyone doubts that, the public media will soon explain it to him. But the question is whether the Law and Justice are rational in their proposals. [[A rhetorical question.]] I would like to ask whether the rapporteur has a simulation of how long it will take to deal with matters at the Constitutional Court. Mr. President Rzepliński, did anyone ask you how this proposal will affect the time of judgment? Or is there some custom of turbo ruling in a situation where twice the human potential needs to be involved in dealing with cases? I think it's probably a proposal that's being prepared. It would be worth it if you would be kind enough to reveal it at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u224	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Modern Club, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u225	Ladies and gentlemen! Members! Mr. Marshal! Once again, we are being offered accelerated procedures. Once again, we were looking forward to the opinion of the National Judicial Council, which has in its law on the National Judicial Council a record of the possibility of opinion of such laws. The Supreme Court's opinions were received today at the Sejm meeting. The lack of an opinion of such important bodies means that the state does not really care about anybody's legal opinions. Why do you usurp the right to all knowledge and the lack of any legal consultation already at the stage of project creation? Is it sufficient for all legal opinions to justify that the aim of the project is to match the legal solutions with the programme intentions of the parliamentary majority? Following this lead, we will soon match the needs of the parliamentary majority. [[Don't lie to me.]] Please read this in the explanatory note. Is that what lawmaking is all about? Is the law created for a particular group? Because it seemed to me that they were always made for us, for future generations. And by the way, ladies and gentlemen, we suggest you think about it, Suwałki. I'm gonna let you have a little privacy. I think the great offer is Łódź. At least we have a motorway, so there is a chance that the members of Parliament who arrive at the meetings of the Constitutional Tribunal - because I remind you that they are very often members of the Constitutional Tribunal - will arrive a little faster than Przemyśl. [[To Rzeszow by plane.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u226	Mrs Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS project, which is instantly pushed, primarily introduces the destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal. The PiS project crushes the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights. Your project is crushing the Supreme Court's opinion that your changes are designed to match the legal solutions to the programme intentions of the parliamentary majority. This is a perverting assumption of the functions of the political tribunal in a democratic state of law - the Supreme Court is thundering. Mr. President! You didn't pass a simple exam, a justice exam, a honesty exam, but above all, a decency exam. [[Who's talking?]] Mr. President! There's no nation's consent... [[Now, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, ……]] Mrs... Mr. Marshal, allow me to...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u228	Please don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u229	Mr. President! There is no nation's consent to democracy in your issue. Don't you see that? Only 48 Members recommend the night project PiS. [[It's in you.]] [[What's with the night all the time? The platform is obsessed with the night.]] The signatures of the applicants do not include those whose signatures should be. There is no signature by President Kaczyński, no signature by Prime Minister Szydło or even Marshal Kuchciński, but also no signature by the head of the club Terletki. Don't you realize that you can't see that the Seym has been divided into prosecutor's speeches and defensive speeches? And the president's in the middle. Can't you see that the communist prosecutor... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u230	Thank you very much, Member. Time's up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u231	...who, on your behalf, tramples on Polish law, moved Poland to fight for democracy, to fight for its rights?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u232	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u233	Aren't you afraid of a historical evaluation that will say and judge: those who trampled on the constitution? [[Monika Wielichowska speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u234	Madame, your time is up. Member, you say... [[But you did, Mr. Marshal. Mularczyk - 40 seconds.]] Mrs. Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Club now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many painful words have been uttered today to Members of the Law and Justice. I feel that these words fall in with one ear and fall out with the other, so I will no longer care about the way you practice politics and make law in Poland, especially in recent weeks. You are deleting an article saying that the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal is in Warsaw, opening the possibility of moving it to another city. In this way you want to break the division between Warsaw and the rest of Poland, as well as value other city centres, mainly in the east of the country. You point out that this will improve the situation on the labour market and reduce the costs of such offices. My questions: What criteria will you follow when choosing a new place for the Constitutional Tribunal? Is the fact of favoring Eastern Poland a political or economic decision? What are the current costs of the Constitutional Tribunal? And how much on this shift, we as taxpayers, can we save? How many people are currently employed at the Constitutional Court? After all, you state, as one of the arguments, that this will improve the situation on the local labour market. So I'd like to know what scale it is. We're talking. [[It's so stupid.]] Finally, are you considering moving the Constitutional Tribunal to Poznań - a city known for its rule of law, high culture and commitment to democratic values? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And in this respect, I am counting on the support of the Members of the Law and Justice of Poznań. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u236	Thank you, Member. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u237	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult to calculate how many times in the last few weeks in this room, in this building or in any form of media, the constitution has been quoted, and in particular Article. 190. It has been recalled that the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal are generally valid and final. Moreover, they must be published and executed immediately. Nevertheless, the entire right side of this room has gone deaf. I don't want to hear those words. Moreover, the Government of Law and Justice itself has granted itself a new right to completely ignore and disregard judgments and judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and to ignore in general everything that relates to the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to ask some very basic questions, but these are very important questions: Why is law and justice changing the Constitutional Court law breaking the division of power? For what important reasons does the PiS government believe that a deep reform of the Constitutional Tribunal is urgent and necessary? How badly will the authority of the Constitutional Tribunal suffer after all these changes? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u238	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I often wonder where the 60% is. citizens who don't read books. I think some of these citizens are among you. On November 12, each of us received a book called: Rules of Procedure of the Polish Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to raise your hand during the oath and say: I swear. We're at work, and every one of us has rules of procedure. Including the rules of procedure in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 it says that projects should be consulted, please countries, consulted. I strongly encourage you to read and read what is in force for each of us. Why? Therefore, I ask you that the public consultation is a process in which representatives of the authorities, i.e. us, present their plans for legislation to citizens - to every citizen. This is also mentioned in the Act on the Council of Ministers dated 8 August 1996. If you do not know this yet, I would like to recall President Andrzej Duda's words, who told us on 2 December that, within the National Development Council, he was going to set up a team to develop rules for the choice of judges and the functioning of the tribunal so that there would be no doubt about impartiality in the future. He also said that he would invite representatives of the opposition and various experts to this team. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is: Where are these public consultations that apply to each of us? Where? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u240	Thank you, ma'am. Time's up. Please, now Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Platform Club. [[There's a word that rhymes with where.]] [[In Kwidzyn.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have very trivial questions addressed to the applicants. You are proposing that the full membership of the tribunal should be 13 persons, 13 judges, and that judgments should be given by a majority of 2/3 of the votes. Why and what criterion did you follow that 13 and not 15 judges were the full members? Or 10? And why is the qualified majority 2/3 in this case, not 3/5 or the total unanimity required? [[100% plus one.]] What criteria did they use? Because, as I understand it, in the explanatory memorandum, the applicant's representative stated that this increase in this numerical requirement is serious. I understand that at the moment the authority and the seriousness will be decided not by competence, but by the number two plus two will be more four, as more people will count it, whether they can count or not. And is that going to be a philosophy that's going to be multipled in other spheres of life? Will we be treated by more doctors depending on the severity of the disease, and with less weight of the disease or mortality by less? And so you can stretch it over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over [[♪ The bell ♪]] to other spheres of life. One such fundamental message...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u242	Thank you, Member, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u243	...that it's not competence, but the amount that you can see from your governments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[That's great!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u244	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Furgo, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Good morning, Professor. I see there's a festival of inviting the tribunal to individual cities. You can't beat me. I represent the Tricity, i.e., Professor, I invite you, Gdansk, Gdynia, Sopot, and the beautiful city of Slupsk. Now, seriously and substantively. What criteria were followed by the authors of the new novel in the construction of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 on the qualification of the cases that will be dealt with by the Constitutional Tribunal in specific configurations? Why, in the lower qualified composition of 7 judges, does the Court rule on the compatibility of laws with international agreements and on the compatibility of ordinary implementing regulations and normative acts at the full level? What legal awareness was given to the authors of the draft law, who wish to refer ordinary cases of a procedural nature, such as the granting of further proceedings or the exclusion of a judge, in the event of their particular complexity or importance, to the full composition of the case? What may be the significance or complexity of the case for disfellowshipping a judge? Another example of a complete lack of understanding of legal matters on a regulated issue is the proposal to amend the Article. 81. 2. The situations in which the Tribunal recognises requests at classified meetings are absolutely exceptional and legally defined situations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. If all the evidence in the case has already been collected...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u246	Thank you, sir, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u247	...or if the issue has already been clarified. And finally, Marshal Piłsudski...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u248	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u249	...named the state we're in, the state... [[Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki turns off the microphone by Mr Grzegorz Furga]] [[Time's up.]] ...the legislative rune. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u250	Please, Mr Szczerba, Civic Platform, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u251	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, an appeal to your marshal to finally send me a letter on the imposition of a financial penalty of $2.5,000. zł for exceeding time, limit my question by 37 seconds. These are new standards. [[Mularczyk would pay, too.]] I understand that President Kaczyński accepts them fully. Financial penalty in 37 seconds of time exceeded by the Member asking the question. [[Applause]] [[Oh, my gosh!]] But as a result, I'll try to fit in time. There's only one minute left. Question for President Kaczyński: Mr. President... [[Voice from the O.R.: You're going beyond the rules.]] ...are you President Kaczyński...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u252	Mr President, I allow you to make statements, not questions, but these are questions... [[But there's no censorship.]] ...which, according to the regulations, are to be addressed to specific persons. [[Voice from the room: Time is running out.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u253	...does President Kaczyński know the art. 29 constitutions? [[Do you know the rules of the Sejm?]] [[Do you?]] Art. 29th Constitution: The capital of the Republic of Poland is Warsaw. [[Do you know what questions are?]] Does Mr Kaczyński know the article. 173 constitutions? [[Sir, that's his question.]] Judgments and Courts are separate and independent from other authorities. What do you suggest? You guys are proposing to repeal the article. 2 on the fact that Warsaw is the seat of the tribunal. The matter of the law should be to determine where the court is based. The question is, who is to settle this now if this is not in the Constitutional Court Act? Is that what you decide... [[The bell, Deputy Marshal Richard Terlecki, shuts down the microphone for Mr Michal Szczerbie]] ...deciding where the court's seat should be?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u254	Thank you very much, sir. [[Oh!]] [[Voice from the room: Chairman...]] I would remind you that you were punished not for exceeding the time, but for interfering with the agenda. Please, Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Moderna, has the floor now. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm looking at this debate, I'm listening to it carefully, and one thing is extraordinary. Well, you are well prepared for this conversation, extremely competent, finesical, but this finesse, this competence, your knowledge does not make any sense at all, because this debate today and all that relates to the conversation about the Constitutional Court is simply the repeal of democracy. We're hitting democracy. This is a slaughterhouse of democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u256	Mr Jan Grabiec, Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u257	I'm sorry. I have a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u258	I thought you'd come down.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u259	Is it really such an idea to deprive Poles of democracy? [[Voice from the room: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u260	Okay. Mr Jan Grabiec, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It takes a lot of nerve to present a new bill amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act at a time when the previous law of the same authors, by PiS, was assessed by the Constitutional Tribunal a few days ago for almost entirely unconstitutional. Minister Beata Kempa has not yet published the judgment of the Court concerning this law, the author state, and you are already reporting another project, equally absurd or even more. I quote the Cicero, sir: every man can err, stubbornly remains in error only a fool. [[Applause]] What does the Supreme Court say about your bill? It is necessary to maintain a balance between the different authorities. It guarantees that the bodies constituting the law do not infringe the constitutional principles and values that protect all citizens of the Republic of Poland, and this is because the institutional position of the tribunal is one of the few guarantees preventing the majority dictatorship in the State. And that bothers you? I would ask, and that bothers you, Mr President, but the President has already left the room. Maybe he didn't want to hear the truth about his politics. Of course, I would very much like to invite the Constitutional Tribunal to Legionov, because everyone [[♪ The bell ♪]] resident of every city in Poland...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u262	Thank you very much, sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u263	...he would be proud to host the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in his city, but the question arises...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u264	Thank you very much, sir. Time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u265	I'm just finishing the question, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u266	You're welcome to finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u267	Are you sure this is about moving the seat of the tribunal or, as Mr Mularczyk says, isolating the judges? So maybe this town in the east is the Arlams, or maybe Bereza Kartuska?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u268	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u269	Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Why do you have to talk like that?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u270	Your voice is now voiced by Marshal Barbara Dolniak, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants: as in the light of the article. 45 Constitutions you want to guarantee citizens a constitutional right to a court which is understood as a right to a swift, without undue delay? In the current state of law, the Constitutional Tribunal has 15 judges, which gives the possibility to appoint 3 formations of 5 judges in each composition who could learn the compatibility of the law with the Constitution. And that also causes a very long waiting for a decision. [[Because two days only work a week.]] What happens when the squad has to count 13 judges? Please also bear in mind that the Constitutional Tribunal is issuing universally binding and definitive judgments, which requires preparation, immense substantive knowledge and time to prepare for such a decision. Please also bear in mind what the Prime Minister said, that during the campaign voters complained about long procedures. And if the court asks the legal question, how long will the waiting time be, maybe the parties to the general court will not have the answer, and with the required vote 2/3 [[♪ The bell ♪]] She could be missing at all. Ah, ladies and gentlemen, art. 401 Code of Civil Procedure? When may a reopening of proceedings be required when the Constitutional Tribunal finds non-compliance? How long will the citizen wait for such a decision to be able to request the reopening of proceedings? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u272	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Mark Owl, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You've been disassembling the Polish state for a month now. It was hard to see that coming. Two hours ago, civil service dismantlement, now another edition of the Constitutional Tribunal. I do not understand why you still humiliate the President of the Republic of Poland. I can understand the communist prosecutor Piotrowicz that he hopes that, as in the Polish People's Republic, judges will vow before the Marshal, but President Duda has shown exceptional loyalty to the Law and Justice in recent weeks. By breaking the constitution, he wanted to earn your respect and trust. Unfortunately, he didn't get it. I also have a question for Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, who is not here, but I hope you will tell him. He often said that there were compromises that you don't cross. It's worth being a minister, but not at all costs. Isn't a three-part division of power, breaking a constitution in this canon? Isn't defending the pillars of Polish freedom and democracy in these qualities? Where is Mr. Jarosław Gowin? When's he gonna talk about what's going on here? Is it safe to say that he can accept anything at the cost of being a minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u274	Mrs. Joanna Augustynowska, the Modern Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns the question of the proposed amendment to the article. 99. 1, i.e. the amendment governing the majority required in the judgment. A 2/3 record means that only when 9 out of 13 judges find that it is not in conformity with the Constitution, this provision will be deemed to be such. For it is not difficult to imagine a situation in which the judges who rule in full will share their votes in such a way that 8 of them, or the vast majority of this 13, will think that the law in question harms the applicant and is incompatible with the constitution, and the remaining 5 will have a different opinion, while no judge will want to change his mind. What then, ladies and gentlemen? Then the citizens will remain firmly convinced that, although they were right, they have been wronged by the solution proposed by the law and have not received a fair judgment. The Polish state will no longer be credible, it will no longer be seen as fair. Are you sure you want to plant in Poles such a feeling that Poland as a state of law has passed away? And a hot request to remember Wroclaw. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u276	You're welcome. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe I'll start by appealing to my fellow MPs so that we don't bid here on the new seat of the Constitutional Court. This idea is fundamentally wrong, written in a very bad bill, and I hope that this law will not be adopted in this Seym. I also hope that the only serious opinion that has come in connection with this bill and which we have received quite recently, sent by you by the President of the Supreme Court, categorically states that the proposed decision, taking decisions in full and by a majority of 2/3 means the potential huge delays and the actual paralysis of the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. Moreover, the Supreme Court judges in their opinion state that the requirement to force a decision by a majority of 2/3 of the votes is clearly incompatible with the Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 5 the Constitution and the Law cannot define this majority in such a way that it deprives the Court of its ability to rule effectively. I would therefore like to ask, the question to the applicants, who wrote you any other opinions which state... that this clearly unconstitutional project is being submitted in the Sejm? I have one more question, which unfortunately sounds rhetorical, because two weeks ago, after this sad ceremony of swearing in the judges elected by this Sejm, the President also appointed a team within the National Development Council. Who's part of this team? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did he give any opinion? Can we meet these people...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u278	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u279	...who would say that this project is in line with the constitution if it isn't? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u280	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! Let me put it this way: you cheated before the election, you're still cheating, people don't really know what to believe anymore. Luckily, the ratings show that people are just getting a little tired of you guys. Mr Mark Owl spoke about the loyalty of the President. In fact, he behaved very loyally and companyed your wickedness. The question is, where is loyalty to the President? How do you explain to the public that he promised in a public message, in a presidential message, that he would consult on all the solutions to the new Constitutional Court Act? How are you gonna explain to people that this is just a promise from the president? Mr. President, you are relieved of your loyalty. You fired the President yourself from this loyalty. The substantive question: Where is the opinion of the National Judicial Council in relation to a law that changes the system? Where? You just don't care. Nothing matters anymore. Mr President, I would like to ask you to be loyal to the Polish people and to the constitution you have vowed. Send this bill back without signing it to the Constitutional Court, because he is the only one who can decide whether it is constitutional! [[Voice from the room: Don't yell!]] [[Wow!]] In history, presidents are registered either as statesmen or as tragic figures of history. The choice is yours, Mr. President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u282	Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Platform Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u283	Thank you, Marshal, for reading your name correctly. The applicant shall be proposed to delete the paragraph. Article 2 The 112th Tribal Act. I would like to remind you that it concerns proceedings on compliance with the constitution of the political party's activities. The proposed paragraph gives the Court the opportunity to determine the actual leader of a political party in a situation where this is not apparent from the statutes. I ask you, Mr Kaczyński, I hope you hear this: Why this procedure? Are you afraid of something? Second question. Or an exfoliation of the mouth. Article 2 28 giving rise to disciplinary action for the behaviour of a judge before taking up the duties of Judge TK is to be a protective umbrella for your colleagues? We know well and all of Poland knows, the author of which uncensored and unworthy words is one of your nominates. And the third question will be sent to the applicant. Strike out what does not apply. 2 talking about the seat of the tribunal will cause confusion, because a positive provision, which establishes something, can only be replaced by another positive provision. The absence of a new seat will cause the tribunal to be [[♪ The bell ♪]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're not gonna settle that by regulation anymore. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u284	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's procedated changes to the Court Act are another example of how the ruling party pursues the pursuit of full power at an express rate, without asking experts about the effect on Poland and concealing the will of the nation. This time in the draft Constitutional Court Act we have changes that paralyze his work. According to the explanatory memorandum, they aim to match the legal solutions with the programme intentions of the parliamentary majority. At this point, I would like to remind you that the Law and Justice of the last parliamentary elections have received less than 38% support. voters who went to the vote, and authorized Poles went to the polls only half. So is the PiS, imposing its solutions, doing the will of the majority of the nation? This is denied by simple mathematics, appeals from many backgrounds and demonstrations. We already know from our infamous past the motto of the good of the party as the good of the nation. Are we going back to that time? There's one more thing. Is the costs of transferring the seat of the tribunal [[♪ The bell ♪]] from Warsaw to another city were...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u286	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u287	...estimated and how much is it going to be? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u288	Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u289	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to say that I have the overwhelming impression that the government side is not interested in today's debate. Now I'm pretty sure he doesn't give a damn. He doesn't give a damn about the arguments that are seen on this speaker. I hope that they do not come up with another plan, which further institutions of the democratic rule of law to own. But I'm gonna let you ask me a question anyway. Mr. Marshal! I'll send the petitioner! Is the real purpose of the principle of decision-making by a majority of 2/3 of votes so that these judgments are not taken by the Constitutional Tribunal at all? Is your goal - and that's the question Isn't it rhetorical - paralyzing the work of the Constitutional Tribunal and causing it to stop ruling at all? In this case, the first decisions, ladies and gentlemen, should be expected at the earliest in a few years, which de facto means that you are seeking to completely disenfranchise the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. After all, one judge's illness will cause that the case will not be adjudicated. And something for dessert. Prime Minister, I wanted to ask you this question: Why did you make the jump this time to... milk bars? By cutting subsidies by PLN 1/4, by PLN 5 million, you prevented Polish students from accessing cheap meals. In March, Prime Minister Beata Szydło said that this grant was needed. Well? Students, this is the good change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u290	Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Constitutional Tribunal is to uphold the rights and freedoms of citizens and the Constitution. I wanted to ask Members of the Law and Justice: Do you still understand what freedom means? Most of the cases that the Constitutional Tribunal is investigating are cases that concern all citizens - these are cases such as taxes, recruitment to educational institutions - and your actions are aimed at paralyzing this institution closely. You are proposing to us to appoint a Constitutional Tribunal in exile. I ask you: Where is the seat of this tribunal? In Kartuska Berez or in Wronki? [[Voice from the room: In Thought.]] [[Voice from the room: Olkus.]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Mother only, Mrs...]] ...you don't look at opinions at all... [[Voice from the room: Please leave Przemyśl in peace.]] ...authorities. You don't look at what the Supreme Court says. You're not finally looking at what our citizens are saying. You don't care at all. You think you're demiurs. Nothing more vicious. You are the gravediggers of Polish democracy. And today, our debate, ladies and gentlemen, is not about the Constitutional Court, it is about democracy. And finally, when I look at your smiles, I'm going to say, what are you laughing at? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[What, are we supposed to cry?]] You're laughing at yourselves! [[Voice from the room: We do not ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u292	Mrs Anna Nemś, Civic Platform. [[Do you listen to yourself, Member, sometimes?]] [[I listen a lot.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! To the Member of the applicant: Why, ladies and gentlemen, do you break the fundamental principle that the law does not work backwards? Your bill is trying to change something that's already happened. [[Do a query of your speeches.]] Who are the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal to be subject to in the light of the law? The draft law deletes the provisions that judges are not bound by the Constitution and are subject only to the Constitution. How does that apply to art? The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1: The judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in the exercise of their office are not bound by the Constitution and are subject only to the Constitution? Ladies and gentlemen, isn't what you're proposing going to cause any more confusion? Maybe that's what this is about. A repair bill? It's not a repair bill. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that this House should be an example. It should be an example for local governments, for regions. Now, please think about what our self-government will think when they look at us. What will the citizens think? [[They support Law and Justice.]] I'd like you to remember this, by force, without any consultation. I'm not gonna say it again, because actually everyone who's been here was talking about how they're proceding: it's outrageous. Ladies and gentlemen, this is outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u294	Mr Paweł Bańkowski, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! By entering into the Festival of Expectations, which was initiated by a Member of the Law and Justice, regarding the location of the court's seat, I would like to propose the location of my hometown, Jaworzna. In this city, the president is in charge of law and justice... [[The President is not a member.]] ...and certainly the additional value that you wrote about in the explanatory memorandum, i.e. the isolation from the centres of political power, the impartiality and apoliticality of this body, would be fulfilled. Turning seriously to the subject, I would like to express my deep indignation at the introduction by the Law and Justice Club, Members of the applicants of the bill amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act to date under the High House. Law and Justice made an outrageous project under the cover of the night without keeping the 7-day notice of the High House before first reading. I would like to ask the following question to the Members of the applicants. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill we read: "Removal of the current article. The 2nd Constitutional Court Act refers to the concept of breaking the division into Warsaw and the rest of Poland. Who is the author of this concept? What does this concept assume? Will this concept be reflected in the drafts of other laws? If so, what is it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u296	Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u297	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, The whole of Poland is watching us. There's no argument. I am in favour of a strong hand in ruling the state, but there are limits. Here, in this Chamber, there are Members elected by the whole nation. What you're doing, I'm talking about Law and Justice, is unacceptable. You're lowering the authority of the entire parliament. We are not worse Messengers or Messengers. We are the same messengers as you, legally elected. [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] President Kaczyński, who is not here, you have reached absolute power in our country. No one in Poland managed to do that. Question: "Where is the border?" As a Member of the Republic of Poland, I ask: Where is the border for breaking democracy? [[Voice from the room: Abroad.]] I want to say with all my power, you're not gonna make it. You won't be able to break us, Poles. [[Voice from the room: Dude...]] Unless you use your strength. A force that the Poles won't agree to. I'm surprised the state lets you enslave one man like that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what amazes me. I appeal to my colleagues: wake up and let us defend the democracy of our country. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u298	Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u299	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Members of the Law and Justice, speaking of their bill, have repeatedly used the word "repairing," but the word "repairing" to this law fits just like rubber pills to a suit. It is primarily the paralysis and destruction of the Constitutional Tribunal, which is the guardian of democracy and the constitution guaranteeing us fundamental rights and freedoms. I don't know if you're aware of that, but 90%. cases which have been brought before the Constitutional Court are cases brought before ordinary citizens. Do you therefore wish to limit the possibility for Poles to challenge legal acts? The second question concerns the words which are set out in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, namely in the part which indicates that the tribunal will not have its seat in Warsaw, is that sentence: the relevant solution will be proposed in the new TK Act. It dispels all doubts for me: you are working on such a law, and this change is intended only to paralyze the tribunal in its present form. I therefore ask the following questions: When will this new law on which you are working be presented? What records will be included in it? And who? [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's working on it right now? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u300	Mr Wojciech Wilk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u301	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two brief questions for the Member representing the Members of the applicants. Question one: Do you know the comments made by the Supreme Court to this draft law? If you know them, will these comments be taken into account and taken into account in any further legislative work? I would like to use one of the quotations from the letter addressed to Members of the Supreme Court, namely: The reading of the project under review indicates, however, that it interferes with this independence - let me remind you that this is about the independence of the tribunal guaranteed directly in the article. 173 of the Constitution - in the sense that it is going to make it difficult - we are still talking about the project - or even preventing the tribunal from exercising its functions. That's my first question. And second question. I would like you to develop the idea contained in the explanatory memorandum of the bill that the amendments proposed in the bill serve, here the quote: matching the legal solutions with the programme intentions. This is point 10 of the statement of reasons for the bill. I would like to ask: On what basis do you wish to oblige the Constitutional Tribunal to carry out the purposes of the Sejm majority? And isn't that one sentence really giving away the essence proposed by the Law and Justice of change? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u302	Mr Tomasz Głogowski, Civic Platform, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u303	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I wanted to ask the applicant's representative about the most curial provision of this law, which was to transfer the seat of the tribunal outside Warsaw. I wanted to ask you what, besides some childish malice towards an institution that upholds the Constitution and opposes the ownership of the state by one ruling force, you want to achieve this record. Do you hope that if it is not located in the capital, but - I don't know - in some more difficult logistically accessible place, citizens will stop applying to the Constitutional Court? 'Cause it's 90%. citizens submit applications. Are you counting on the media not to report on the work of the Constitutional Tribunal? This idea is grotesque and funny, and when citizens start laughing at power, it's the first step in changing rulers. Isn't it enough for you to paralyze the work of the Constitutional Tribunal? Because it is enough that the elected politicians - judges of the Constitutional Tribunal can block the work of the Constitutional Tribunal, and yet in a funny way try to lower the value of this tribunal and move its seat from Warsaw. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u304	Mr Tomasz Kostus, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u305	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill we read: the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal can also work at the university full-time. The proposal assumes that this principle is maintained, but in the rest of the justification there is a record, and I quote: the status of the judge and his tasks require a focus on the ruling. The question is: Should this logic also prevent judges from working at the university? Doesn't working at the university, by any chance, require proper commitment, not only for teaching, but also for research activities? Finally, why do the authors of the draft law want to limit the freedom of the tribunal to decide on the order in which cases are dealt with, by requiring cases to be dealt with in the order of their receipt? And finally. The President of the Supreme Court also expressed his opinion, which is devastating for you, for the Law and Justice. This opinion indicates that this is not a recovery act, as you claim, because its entry threatens to completely paralyze the tribunal and its judgments. Is that what this is about? Answer us and the Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u306	Ms Agnieszka Hanaczyk, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am addressing questions to the Member of the applicant and ask for a written reply. I wonder why we look at the principles of Polish law in a completely different way. Perhaps this is due to the fact that, when you were a U.S. Attorney, I studied law at the University of Łódź and what else I was taught. Therefore, I have questions for you: Does the proposal to take a vow to the Marshal of the Sejm not constitute a derogation from the principle expressed in the article. Ten constitutions? Is the fact that a representative of the judiciary is elected by the Sejm as a legislative authority, while the oath is made to the representative of the executive authority, the President, not just the emanation of the three divisions of power? Why, in the justification of the proposal for such a solution, to be taken before the Marshal of the Sejm, does he refer to the standards of the Constitutional Tribunal Act in force at the time of the Polish People's Republic? And another question: Is the solution proposed in the article. The 2nd project is not a violation of the lex retro non agit principle and proposed in Article. 3 of the draft, i.e. the retrial of the case in which the final judgment has already been given, does it not violate the principle of res judicata? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u308	Mrs Ewa Drozd, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are in a special period, a pre-Christmas period, a period of waiting for the good news. And for the good news, too, they were looking forward to it. Poles after the elections ended. They hoped that Law and Justice would begin its rule by the laws presented by Prime Minister Beata Szydło during the campaign in the blue folder. And this is Zonk. There is no law 500+, there is no liquidation since 1 January 2016 of the law on tax on certain fossils, and there is a Constitutional Tribunal that we have not heard about in the election campaign. I am convinced that Poles were not waiting for such good changes. They were convinced, listening and looking at the briefcase set that you could do it. What about here? I leave my grades to the Poles. But listening to your argument, even wanting to understand your philosophy that these actions are intended to serve Poles - how will you explain the proposed change regarding the formation of the judge, which will significantly extend the waiting period for the hearing? Because 18 months are expected at the moment. Aren't you afraid that the changes you have proposed will prolong the waiting period for consideration that many things will not see their finale? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u310	Mrs Bożena Kamińska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Lex retro non agit - the law doesn't work backwards. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The rule of law determining the prohibition of retroactivity, ladies and gentlemen. Why, then, does the Law and Justice in the draft, which concerns amendments to the Constitutional Tribunal Act, want to change this most important legal principle, recognising that all pending cases should be re-examined? The Civic Platform Club and all Members are against it. Also Poles. Mr. Marshal! By taking advantage of the rest of your time, by joining this festival of wishes concerning the location of the Constitutional Tribunal, I would also like to draw your attention to Suwałki's attention, which were often mentioned here, maybe even to the summer residence of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u312	Member of Zofia Czernow, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to say that Jelenia Góra is also very open to the adoption of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]] [[I agree.]] High Izbo! Bulverizing is what the ruling majority is trying to do with the Constitutional Tribunal and the Polish democracy. When you make such dangerous decisions, it is worth to reach into history and see if such crazy ideas have already been applied anywhere and what the consequences have been. Well, I have a question for the authors of the bill. Does the parliamentary majority, which calls itself the representative of the nation and who brutally wants to push through another non-constitutional change, know that the principle that the constitutional tribunal is only a full court, was introduced in a fascism Austria in 1933? This resulted in the death of the constitutional tribunal. [[Oh, Jesus.]] Does the PiS know about this, and does it consciously storm Polish democracy? Is the purpose of this law, which is not stated in the explanatory memorandum, the death of the Constitutional Tribunal in our country? The Civic Platform Parliamentary Club protests this project and does not agree to its introduction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u314	Ms Anna Białkowska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question I'm gonna ask is that there are millions of Poles on the lips. Today it turned out that the Platform and individual Members of the Constitutional Tribunal were responsible for the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal and, finally, journalists who were waiting just around the corner. But everyone knows that it is the Law and Justice that will be responsible for the assassination of democracy. Please answer the questions. For more than 25 years of free Poland, the Constitutional Tribunal has acted smoothly, ruling on the compatibility of the laws with the Constitution. Why is it the government of law and justice that wants to destroy this institution? What are your goals here? Please also tell us where the duties of the President will be hindered by swearing in the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u316	Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish local governments are very concerned about the independence and organizational efficiency of the Constitutional Tribunal, because the institution has repeatedly ruled in cases governed by them. She was the guardian of their rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I ask: Is it not the preparation of the ground for an attempt on the independence of Polish local governments? What other laws have you prepared regarding local government units? Already today we are dealing with draft laws which concern local government and which are non-constitutional. As an example, I will give a law that raises the tax-free amount and will reduce the revenue of local government units by about PLN 10 billion. Today, you do not provide sources of compensation for local governments, so you do so, you pass an unconstitutional bill. Is the assassination of the Constitutional Tribunal [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it a preparation for the adoption of further laws against their independence? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u318	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u319	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would say, President, but the President is not here, and he is known for his fascination with Hungary. That will be the question about Hungary. After all, it was the president who announced that Budapest would one day be in Warsaw. But since the President isn't here, the question will be to the Member of the applicant. Comrade Prosecutor, my question is: Is the Hungarian system inspiring the changes proposed by the PiS in the Constitutional Court Act, where Viktor Orbán began radical reconstruction of constitutional and universal justice in 2011? Second question: Did you count the costs of transferring the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal from Warsaw to another city in Poland? On behalf of the Civic Platform and my own, I protest against the transfer of the Constitutional Tribunal from Warsaw to another place in Poland due to costs, but also because of the independence of this institution, independence and access to the media. This is important. I protest on behalf of myself, on behalf of the Civic Platform: do not transfer the Constitutional Tribunal from Warsaw, from the capital to another place in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u320	Mr Norbert Obricki, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u321	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is difficult to talk about good changes if you do not learn good lessons from history, from the past, for example from the recent past of European parliamentarianism of the 20th century. Do Law and Justice and President Kaczyński realise that the non-constitutional changes you want to make, first of all, the principle that the Constitutional Tribunal is ruling only in full office, has already been introduced by some countries and this has been defined as the universal death of this tribunal? Of course, there are countries that live without a constitutional tribunal. I do not agree as a representative of the Civic Platform on behalf of the Platform. Are the amendments proposed by you to the Constitutional Court Act supposed to pacify its action so as not to interfere with any subsequent non-constitutional changes in the law? Finally, should Law and Justice be the last instance in the Polish justice system in the early 20th century, as in Fascinating Austria in 1933? [[Voice from the room: What are you talking about?]] [[Voice from the room: Herr Schulz, I think.]] We won't be able to do that on the Civic Platform. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u322	Mr Marek Hok, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u323	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of representing the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club. I read in the explanatory memorandum the following wording: the law does not have any financial implications for the state budget. We do not know on what basis you feel that way, since there is no consultation, there are no figures that would represent the possibility of financial losses, all the more so in the context of the possibility of transferring the tribunal to another place. But you also write that the bill has a positive social impact. Come on, I think he's making a pretty good joke. I think that this paragraph should be included either in quotes, or at least emphasized with a snake, as Jan Kobuszewski said in the Cabaret of Dudek for such projects. As this attack on the tribunal is really received by the public opinion, we know best because we talk to the inhabitants of our towns, our cities and Poles every day. This division in this discussion, the assessment of all of this is contained in still free media, which express this opinion on radio, on public television and in the nationwide press. Our listeners, our compatriots do not want these changes, and we, all members of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, will vote against this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u324	Mr Grzegorz Raniewicz, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u325	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Of course, on behalf of the Civic Platform, we strongly protest against what is happening here in this Chamber. This is crazy. But this madness isn't even what PiS wants to do, it's how he does it. It's crazy that he's doing this voluntarily. Ladies and gentlemen, the PiS is crazy. May God help Poland and Poles. [[Voice from the room: Ho, ho...]] This is no longer Orwell's animal farm, that's Orwell's Year 1984. [[Harder, harder!]] Mr. District Attorney, will you soon want to introduce a new concept of crime - a criminal thought, like Orwell's? [[Applause]] Will you want to open room 101 and reset the Poles, erase them, those who think otherwise? You're going that way. [[Are you insane?]] You took over the service, took over all the ministries, took over the next areas of Poland and Poles' lives. [[Game in the O.R.]] This is crazy. The piss went crazy. May God help Poland and Poles. [[Yeah, you did.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u326	Hands fall off. Mr Marek Krzakła, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Members of the applicants. I wanted to ask, in what country in the world is there a ruling in full constitutional court, in a situation where such a court usually has a dozen or so judges? It is not only that, when you take the ruling by a majority of 2/3 of the votes, you can really block everything, every decision of the tribunal, yet you want to completely slow down the work of the tribunal and instead of the usual three formations that have ruled, introduce only one, and thus at least three times delay the work of this tribunal. In the name of what are you doing this? I don't think it's in the name of the seriousness of this court. Tell me what else must happen so that you stop spoiling the state, destroying the three-step division of power and the fundamental principles of democracy. Aren't you just ashamed? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u328	Mr Artur Dunin, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a member of the Civic Platform, a citizen of this country, I will say: we respect the results of the elections which took place on 25 October, but we do not respect people who do not respect the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. We do not respect the people who are acting against this constitution today, starting with the President of the Republic of Poland... [[Oh, very rude.]] ...starting with the President of the Republic of Poland, who said that nothing changed for him after the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[A little respect for the head of state.]] That's what I just said. If the President had respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, he would have been among Poles. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that President Kaczyński wants all Poles to see in his prayer, all Poles should think and live like Mr Kaczyński. There's no permission to do that. There is no consent of Poles and this part of this House because we will not be labeled and will not be destroyed. Mr. President, Poland wants to be... Poles want to be free and live their own way. Thanks to your actions it can happen that Poles will lose their freedom. Today we know, because this is what you're talking about, that you want to eliminate the National Radio and Television Council. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Article 213 of the Constitution clearly... [[Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki shuts down Mr Arthur Dunin's microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u330	Thank you, sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u331	Mr. Marshal, no, I won't allow myself to take the floor. This council is on the guard of democracy also in the media...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u332	Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform, now has a voice. [[Time's up, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u333	...that's what you need him for...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u334	Mr President, please leave the speaker, your time is up. [[Voice from the hall: Time, man, respect the people.]] [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u335	...what's your next move? Will it be the next move that you introduce...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u336	Mr President, please leave the speaker, your time is up. [[The voice from the hall: It's out of time!]] [[Voice from the room: Get off the platform.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u337	...the bondability of all phone calls and you will monitor the citizens of Poland? There's no permission to do that. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, I have a formal motion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u338	We're in the middle of a discussion. Right after the discussion, you'll have the opportunity. Please, Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not dwell on the fact that the lion's part of the legal environment says that 2/3 of your amendment to the Constitutional Court is simply incompatible with the Constitution. First of all, you don't have the majority to change the constitution, and even more so, you don't have the majority to break it. If the constitution speaks in art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 5, And only in the case of the Sejm is the common majority, 2/3, 3/5 and the absolute majority. If the Constitution allowed some other majority, it would be written directly in the Constitution. Dear District Attorney, this is first year of law. And since I am already on the subject of studies, it is difficult not to refer to the allegations made by Mr Kropiwnicki, Member of the Civic Platform, that his reviewer was the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, I know that your standards are that the promoters are ashamed of their PhD students and the entire universities are ashamed of themselves. [[Applause]] Plus, I'm not gonna mention the street screaming during the demonstration: Duda, give me your diploma! But I'll get back to the question. What's she like? [[♪ The bell ♪]] the true reason for this unconstitutional increase of the required majority and quorum in the course of voting on the resolutions of the General Assembly...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u340	Madam, your time is up, please finish the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u341	And what's that supposed to do? Thank you very much. [[Shame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u342	Thank you. Mr Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Platform, now has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u343	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! This draft law provides for the possibility of extending the term of office of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I would like to ask, at the same time continuing the statements of the previous speakers on the legal basis that you have submitted to us, whether this is how the authors of the bill want to lead to a situation where some judges may, in the name of their own interest, be urged to rule in accordance with the will of those politicians on whom the extension of their term of office will depend. After all, this record can obviously provoke such behavior. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u344	Mr Vladimir Nykiel, Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u345	Mr. Marshal! Dear President, Well, I have two lines. If the Constitutional Tribunal is now busy and the dominant majority of cases are dealt with in a 5-person membership, this means that new solutions will simply be paralysis. This word has already been mentioned here several times, but it must be said that this paralysis means preventing the Constitutional Tribunal from acting. The Constitution provides for various tasks for the Tribunal. If the Court cannot fulfil these tasks, then such a legal standard is contrary to the Constitution. Second thing. The applicants reached out to various foreign solutions regarding the location of the tribunal. I will ask: How about the applicants see how the courts, the constitutional courts or the international courts make their cases? The former President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Prof. Marek Safjan, says that such as the proposed solution in the bill is inadequate for constitutional and international courts, that is beyond standards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the Court of Justice of the European Union, most judgments are issued in the composition of five and three persons. So I'm asking you about these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u346	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, a representative of the applicants, now has the floor. [[Stas, short.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand that when there are no arguments, populist terms are involved, insults are involved... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!...]] ...obrogations also to the representative of the applicants. [[How's your résumé...]] But the state is in violation of the principle of equality. In particular, I would suggest that you address your colleagues who are sitting next to you, members of the Polish United Workers' Party, the Secretary of the Central Committee of the Party from today. [[Applause]] I also think that, in the name of the principle of equality, you will also - which I do not wish the President - address the President... [[How dare you!]] ... Andrzej Rzepliński. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I don't blame anybody. The truth is that I was born in the previous system, in the previous system I studied and worked. But also in the previous system, the Constitutional Tribunal was born. [[Me too.]] You've forgotten that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] The Constitutional Tribunal was incorporated into the Constitution in 1982, during a dark period of martial law. [[Voice from the courtroom: In martial law.]] It's worth knowing. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Which one?]] He was founded in 1985 and began his activity in 1986. I don't know why you don't talk today like you say to me that it's a communist tribunal, because there's so much truth in it! [[Communist.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Applause]] You were concerned during the discussion, because it was essentially the discussion that was mostly not the question of where the Constitutional Tribunal would be located. [[Voice from the hall: in Tarnów.]] [[Voice from the room: Well, where?]] Well, we've eliminated a rule that prejudices this issue. The debate on the place of the Constitutional Tribunal is still ahead of us. [[Voice from the room: In front of the president.]] However, I can assure you in the context of this carousel of cities that there will be no Constitutional Court. [[Applause]] [[But there's a loophole right now.]] Nor will you, ladies and gentlemen... because this is what your intention supposedly was - the concern for the smooth functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal. There were strong words here that there would be paralysis of the Constitutional Tribunal. [[It will be.]] Good for you, ladies and gentlemen. [[That's not good, that's not good.]] And I'm just going to quote the facts - unlike you guys who only have blanks, without facts, I'm going to quote the facts. The judges of the Constitutional Tribunal come to work twice a week. That's the first basic thing. [[Voice from the room: Ooh!...]] There was no vocabulary in December. [[There were judgments on the third and ninth.]] Come on, November was...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u348	Mr Myrcha is interfering with the Seym's procession. [[Well, how does he lie? How's he lying?]] Mr President, I warn you that I will be drawing consequences for you. [[But he speaks untruth from the platform!]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u349	In November, there were three vocabulary at the Constitutional Court. [[The ninth...]] Judges of the Constitutional Court... [[Two rulings were made!]] ...in my opinion and, I believe, in the public's opinion, they are financially rewarded. They make about 20,000. zł. They have a state of rest after nine years of work... [[Just like Tusk.]] ... regardless of age. It was the legislators' intention to ensure that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal deal with what they were called to do. But reality is different. This is due to the facts that I have quoted earlier, but also because the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal take many, many different classes in various universities in Poland alongside their work at the Constitutional Court. [[They don't have time for a tribunal.]] The question arises at all: Does the employer - an employee's attitude to relationships fail to respect the principle of impartiality and independence? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[But they don't have a job relationship, well, people...]] You cared very much about citizens' access to court. How hypocritical there is. Whenever you want to represent the interests of a specific social group, the one you represent, you want to scare all citizens. [[We represent the nation.]] You're trying to scare them into not having access to the courthouse. Ladies and gentlemen, you have invoked... [[Voice from the O.R.: They're already afraid of you.]] ...art. 45 constitutions. Access to the court is not only physical access to the court, it is not only the right to expect a judgment in the so-called. a reasonable time, but it is also the right of the citizen to make the court competent, independent, impartial and independent. And that's what you're forgetting. [[Applause]] [[You guys want to change that.]] There were charges here that we didn't include... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] The applicant doesn't have limited time, I'm lecturing. [[You have to know the rules.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't lecture us.]] There were allegations that we had failed to take the opinion of the National Judicial Council into account in our work. That's what I'm saying. [[Which one is Myrch?]] ...that you do not respect the judgments of the Constitutional Court. Not so long ago, because on 9 December, the Constitutional Tribunal in its explanatory memorandum stressed that the National Court of Justice has no authority to comment on cases relating to the Constitutional Tribunal, [[Applause]] such powers shall have in relation to universal courts. This was stated by the Constitutional Tribunal on 9 December in the explanatory memorandum to the judgment. You don't listen and you don't respect the tribunal. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Many attacks were here and suspicions - why should the judges take the oath before the Marshal of the Sejm? Or was it a test at your address? Because all the time you were attacking the president - why the president, shouldn't the president - we made that gesture this way. Here's a vow before the Marshal of the Sejm. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] If you think it's wrong, we'll go back to the previous solution, we're very open to it, however logical the justification is, namely, that a vow is made before the one who calls. This is the case with the Ombudsman, with regard to the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. [[Voice from the Chamber: Members.]] On the other hand, before the President, judges take their vows, which is also a natural consequence, because it is the general court judges who appoint the President. You also spoke here about the parties, that it is unconstitutional to delete the wording of the article. The 112th Constitutional Court Act. [[Paragraph 2.]] This provision thus states: Where it is impossible to determine who is the person authorised to represent the party, or when it cannot be contacted, the Constitutional Tribunal shall consider the person actually in charge of the party to be authorised. We decided to delete this provision. The first remains that the constitutionality of political parties is decided by the Constitutional Tribunal, but we do not consider it appropriate for the Constitutional Tribunal to decide in any way who is in charge of the political party. Here we believe that this type of record is incorrect and we propose deleting this record. In the remainder, the provision authorising the tribunal to check the conformity of the political party's activities with the Constitution remains. You say that citizens are terrified of what is happening in Poland now. Yes, it is. I'm getting signals of the wrong way the opposition is acting in the Seym today. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] The citizens thanked you for this democracy you have created for 8 years on October 25th. [[Applause]] [[They'll thank you too.]] And you guys want to keep it going. There's no nation's permission to do that. There's no nation's permission to do that. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[They've been thanking you for a month.]] You guys can't deal with it. [[Applause]] [[They're already thanking you, after a month.]] Democracy is to be based on the Constitution, not on the Statute of the Civic Platform. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Read yesterday's poll.]] This must be made clear, because there were words here that Parliament was in danger in the eyes of the citizens. Yes, but because of your actions, it must be emphasized with the utmost force, your behavior. [[Applause]] The words were spoken here, they appeared many times, because they were so appalled, because they were not read with understanding, nor with a legal act, nor with justification to it. [[The tram rides, that's how it is.]] In particular, it aroused confusion and allegations that it was intended to adapt to the programme's intentions. [[We second sort, we don't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the programme of our work includes: equal treatment of the Polish state and citizens residing in all areas of the country. [[You're Mr. Kaminski from equal treatment.]] Hence decentralisation, this is our programmed purpose, which we are also going to pursue in the future with regard to the Constitutional Tribunal. You said here in your questions outrageously that the transfer of the seat of the Constitutional Tribunal, although this is not the subject of today's amendment, we do not prejudice this case... [[Member Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska: What do you mean?]] ...will reduce the value and importance of the Constitutional Tribunal. You gave the same idea to Poles, how you treat other parts of the country and how you treat citizens residing in other parts of Poland, [[Applause]] If you think that a seat in another part of the country is insulting the dignity of the Constitutional Tribunal. Some here aspiring to the role of prominent lawyers were outraged and stressed that a new procedure could not be applied to cases already in progress. Here they referred to the principle: retro non agit. They didn't listen carefully, I talked about this principle, and about the second - res judicata... [[There's still transitional provisions.]] ...but as you can see, it's not about listening, it's about talking and sometimes not quite what it should sound like. Retro non agit refers to material law, not trial law, and I want lawyers to remember that. [[Applause]] Come on, the procedural changes in this area meet... [[Voice from the room: Why?]] ... civil rights and freedoms, because I do not know why citizens should suffer because the tribunal will be better served. This is some kind of aberration, isn't it? [[Applause]] [[Yes, sir.]] [[Voice from the hall: What's with the small applause?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Stas, they don't understand what you're saying to them.]] It was also said that we did not have a majority to break the constitution. I wanted to ask the author of this question, which majority is entitled to violate the constitution. [[Exactly.]] Anyway, we're not going to do that. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] It's worth remembering once and for all. In June, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party broke the constitution. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Yes, sir.]] Minister Budka called it a mistake and apologized. Well, you could call breaking the constitution a mistake. [[Applause]] [[With a swing.]] [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: That is why you are erring.]] I don't know why he wouldn't call it by name. On the other hand, Mr Kropiwnicki, the perpetrator of this assassination, said that it was awkward. [[Joy in the Chamber]] On the other hand, there are a bunch of allegations of violation of the Constitution, completely unfounded and unsubstantiated, without any arguments, against the Law and Justice. But people can tell the difference between grain and chaff, see that there are no arguments. [[Applause]] There are words, words and words. Those words are devalued. [[They can do it.]] You told people eight years ago and people fell for it to get better. They saw that life was better, but a group of citizens you selected closely. [[Applause]] And, ladies and gentlemen, it was very, very nice when one of the representatives of the Civic Platform, but also others, because it was repeated in several voices, quoted the words of the real husband of the state of Mr. Prof. Dr. Hab. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland. It's a good thing you're recalling his words. [[Applause]] And he said, as I was given, but it is worth remembering: the Constitutional Tribunal is an integral part of the system of the state of law. So he was, is and will remain until Poland has such a character. Let's hope it's forever. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: We hope.]] We are faithful to Professor Lech Kaczyński's will. [[Voice from the room: Yes, you can see.]] [[I don't think so.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: Mr Gomulka, even, is faithful.]] [[You're lying.]] On the other hand, if you believe that the better functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal does not necessarily mean that three judges will decide whether the law is compatible with the Constitution or not... [[The voice from the room: The gomula would be proud.]] I can imagine this situation, because they were here in this Chamber: 460 Members voted in favour of the bill, 100 senators voted in favour of the bill, the president signed the bill. The Sejm Analysis Office issued opinions on constitutional compatibility, legislators confirmed this state of affairs, independent experts stated that the law was in line with the Constitution, and three judges reached a different conclusion. [[Five.]] Five judges, but it took three, because they decided by a majority. I'm perfectly aware of that. [[Exactly.]] [[Example.]] [[You're lying.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we're raising standards. Turns out... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Since when do you think a larger tribunal is a lowering of standards? [[Yes, sir.]] If the tribunal is more numerous, the seriousness of the judgment given by that tribunal is greater. If the Constitution states that the tribunal consists of 15 judges, it would be good for everyone to rule on the matter. [[What do they have to do?]] After all, it decides on the compatibility of the law with the constitution. This is a court of law. And one more thing - I think it's worth mentioning - at the last minute. You also wanted to persuade the Constitutional Tribunal to break the constitution. You encouraged the Constitutional Tribunal to examine individual resolutions of the Sejm. You've made such a request. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] Today, the Attorney General stated that this was unacceptable and appealed to the Constitutional Court's 2001 ruling. The Constitutional Tribunal stated at the time that it had no right to examine individual resolutions of the Sejm. These resolutions are a manifestation of the autonomy of the Sejm. [[Applause]] [[It was a normative one.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, the bill responds to the need for increased protection of civil rights, it does not stand in the way, it will not cause any paralysis. If the judges of the tribunal carry out what they are called to do, they will determine the hearings, they will recognise, they will only take place to the glory of their homeland, to ensure the rule of law in the state and to protect rights and citizens. Thank you very much. [[Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice rise, applause]] [[The president.]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u350	Thank you very much, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] And you? [[Voice from the room: In corrigendum mode.]] [[In what mode, gentlemen, do you take this podium? There was no envoy named after him.]] [[There were no names...]] Your name was mentioned? Was there a name? It wasn't. [[Voice from the room: He referred to my statement.]] But that doesn't entitle you to... [[I'm the secretary of the Platform Club, Mr. Marshal.]] The Member did not speak today. [[Voice from the room: I was taking it away.]] [[Voice from the room: He took it from the very beginning.]] [[Don't block the speaker.]] [[Voice from the room: Who's the first one better?]] [[Voice from the Chamber: My question was raised in this statement.]] Okay, but your name hasn't been invoked. [[Voices from the hall: It was!]] [[It wasn't, don't lie to me. There was no name. You're lying in broad daylight.]] Ladies and gentlemen, correction is possible when a name is given. [[Voice from the hall: Which doesn't mean you can lie from the platform.]] [[You've been lying for eight years.]] [[Voice from the room: About the parties was...]] But this party has fallen many times in different contexts. No, I'm not giving you the floor. I'm very sorry. Please leave... [[Voice from the room: You just said yes.]] I said yes because I thought your name had been invoked. But I hear it's not. [[Sit down, sir. No name has come up.]] [[Voices from the hall: It was!]] [[You won't talk, you've been crushed by the D.A.]] I'm asking you to leave the platform, sir. The discussion is closed. A motion to reject the draft law at first reading was put forward in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal on the side of the votes. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 02 hours 16 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors Convention, submitted a draft resolution on commemorating the victims of December 1970. The project is printing 132. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on commemorating the victims of December 1970 (print No 132). Ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I will read the content of the resolution: the Resolution of the Polish Sejm on commemoration of the victims of December 1970. 45 years ago, tragic events took place on the Coast, which were among the bloodiest in the post-war history of Poland. December 1970 revealed the true face of Communists who, in the name of maintaining themselves in power, did not hesitate to shoot those who opposed them. Since 14 December 1970 in Gdansk, Gdynia, Szczecin and Elbląg there have been strikes, demonstrations and protests in which people who refuse to live under conditions of derogatory human dignity have participated. The authorities of the Polish People's Republic decided to brutally deal with the protesters. The Security Service, the Civic Militia and the Polish People's Army did not hesitate to use weapons against workers. In a few days, there was a real massacre on the coast. According to official records, 46 people were murdered, over a thousand people were injured and over three thousand were arrested. The Parliament of the Republic of Poland on the 45th anniversary of December events pays tribute to all those who then opposed the ruthless communist power, giving their lives and health for the dignity and freedom of all of us. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland honors the memory of the fallen shipbuilders. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm adopted a resolution on commemorating the victims of December 1970. Mr Janusz Brześdek in... A formal conclusion? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u351	(PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I'm making a formal motion because I want to speak. [[Joy in the Chamber]] as the long-standing chairman of the Social Committee for the Monuments of Victims of December 1970 in Gdynia. [[Voice from the hall: What about the marshal?]] [[In what mode?]] I would like to take the floor and refer to this resolution just a moment ago adopted by us. [[Mr. Marshal, in what mode?]] I would like to stress - you will not close my mouth - that on December 17th, every black Thursday every year is an opportunity for an examination of conscience. Today, such a conscience check in Gdynia in the morning at the monument, by the shipyard, was carried out by the head of state, Mr Andrzej Duda. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[What is it, marshal?]] [[Nitras, shut up.]] In an excellent way, he was struck by the feelings and feelings of the shipbuilders, the environments concerned. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm done. I'm done. I'm done. I declare to you this way: our reality is painfully different from the desires, expectations, messages of both the victims of December and the ideals of August. [[What is it, marshal?]] If we really want to pay tribute to the victims of December and do it honestly and honestly, first of all, we should at the same time make a declaration that we will carry out their will. [[And how old were you then?]] [[Nitras, remember Gomulka, puppy?]] There's no respect, no respect for these victims without a declaration, no sense of need to carry out their will. And I think that such implementation of the will Law and Justice will make, that such hope was born in Poland this year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u352	A formal request was made by Krzysztof Brejza, the Civic Platform Club. Mr Krzysztof Brejza, there you go. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Please?]] I repeat that Mr Brejza made a formal request. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: I would like to refer to this proposal.]] I'm not having a discussion right now. [[In what mode do you allow...]] [[I'd like to speak.]] Please leave the speaker, sir. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: In the same mode as Mr Buddy, I would like to refer.]] [[In the same mode, Mr. Marshal.]] Ladies and gentlemen... Would you like to make a formal application? [[Voice from the room: Higher retirement...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u353	Mr. Marshal, it's amazing what you're doing, how you share this House, how you sort Members. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u354	Mr President, make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u355	Mr. Marshal, under Art. Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general [[Voice from the room: Quiet.]] ...in order not to compromise the bailiffs, I am requesting a roll call from 30 Members of the Civic Platform. [[It's name-calling all the time.]] [[It's name-calling all the time, sir.]] Let me finish my justification. [[Voice from the room: They're all there.]] On behalf of the Civic Platform Club, I submit a motion for a roll-call vote on the Constitutional Court Act. [[Each one's a name.]] [[Each one's a name.]] Names, because each of the Members present in this Chamber individually takes the floor in accordance with his conscience. [[Voice in the Chamber: There's a vote.]] Ladies and gentlemen! 25 years ago, the Central Committee's government ran out, and you've still got a minute to go out into the cockroaches behind that wall. What's behind that wall? [[There's another one in your house.]] [[Voice from the room: Knock on the head.]] There are mirrors, you can come and look yourself in the eye, because you have vowed the constitution of the Third Republic, many of you have said to these words: So help me God. [[Voice from the room: Everyone.]] Will you vote for Mr. District Attorney Peterovich's bill? I will give one only argument that has not been made in this Chamber so far: the independence of the judge is linked to intransparency, it is forbidden to transfer judges. You want to allow what happened in the 1980s, what happened in times of so-called. communes, when judges under the principle of uniform state authority threatened to transfer, maybe to Przemyśl, maybe to the Lower mouths, maybe to Lesk. This direction is interesting. [[Piotrkov, maybe.]] And one more example. In 1984, the judge Katarzyna Majewska-Litwińska was punished as head of the penal department of the provincial court implementing the decree of martial law. Who took her place in 1984? Name. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Time!]] Andrzej Kryże, your Deputy Minister of Justice. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Long-term applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u356	There you go. We will return to this formal proposal at the point concerning the Constitutional Tribunal. The Bureau of the Sejm has submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. [[Mr. Marshal, this is...]] [[Henry Krzywonos-Strzycharska: Sorry, Mr. Breakfast could, and I can't?]] [[Request for a roll call.]] The application is print number 131. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. [[Voice from the O.R.: Place.]] [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] High Izbo, a formal request was made to postpone the sitting until 28 December. [[Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska: Pity of words.]] I will put this proposal to the vote. [[Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, Okay, ……]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting until 28 December this year will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 165 Members voted against - 252 Members and 9 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. The Poselski Kukiz Club15 requested that the agenda be supplemented by a point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act (Print No 129). At the meeting of the Senior Convention, opposition to the completion of the agenda was raised. This is, according to art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act (Print No 129), will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. There were 268 Members voted against - 159 Members who abstained from the vote. I find the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Applause]] I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary bill on tax on certain financial institutions. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. The question was raised by Mrs Joanna Schmidt, the Modern Parliamentary Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Modern Club requests that the bill be rejected. We could support banking tax, but at European level. [[Rise in the room, ring the bell]] [[Sure. Why am I not surprised?]] The amount and form of tax proposed by the applicant will be the most impact on ordinary citizens. [[That's not true!]] It is Poles, ordinary citizens who will bear the costs of this tax. We have examples of this in other European countries, just take examples, learn from others. Small enterprises will also be burdened with these costs. They are the ones who make the most of loan financing. But, most importantly, this bill favors banks called SKOKs. The set amount of 4 billion is a favourite amount of SKOK-i. Ladies and gentlemen, wealthy people in Poland do not have loans. It is the less affluent who will feel the effects of this tax, this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question: Who prepared this project? It is a parliamentary project. Who prepared this project? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Who gave you the money for the campaign?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u358	Thank you very much. In order to respond, a representative of the applicants, Mrs Barbara Bubula, shall be reported. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is a parliamentary project, and this is because we want - according to the social will expressed by more than 40% of the population - to 19% opposition - that this law should enter into force as soon as possible. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] This law is an expression of the desire for financial burdens to finance the most important social issues in our country to be spread out proportionally. We also want this law not to touch the smallest financial institutions, and hence the announced financial threshold. I also answer those questions which relate to the proposals of the Civic and Modern Platform to reject this proposal. Why is it that Poland is one of the last countries, the big countries that are considering this tax? Why, when VAT was raised by 1 percentage point and thus burdened all, the smallest, even the poorest families in Poland, was the burden also not covered by the largest financial institutions? This is what we applied for a few years ago when Minister Rostowski charged more VAT to Polish society. At that time, the Civic Platform rejected this request. It is time for banking tax to be introduced as soon as possible. We would like this project to be adopted by the Sejm as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: Mr Marshal, I just want to...]] [[Voice from the room: The modern one was already.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u360	We'll proceed with the vote. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: One sentence.]] [[Sit down!]] Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 75 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Mr Joann Scheuring-Wielgus: Mr Marshal, I would like to make a formal request.]] [[He's a sick guy.]] 431 Members voted. 151 Members voted against, 264 Members voted against, 16 Members abstained. [[Member Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus: Formal application.]] I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We return to the examination of item 21 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the Civil Service Act and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission for consideration. [[Mr. Marshal, formal motion.]] [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Marek Wójcik made a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u361	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. 3 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall apply for a formal interruption. The project we are looking at concerns employment in the civil service, which is why I am applying for a break until we present - and provide an opinion on the bill - for the representation of employees and civil servants, as well as OPZZ and NSZZ Solidarity. I also ask Mr Marshal to ask the Civil Service Council for an opinion on the draft law, because the opinion of civil service projects is not only a statutory law but also a statutory duty of the Civil Service Council and without such an opinion in a situation where we are proceeding on a project which clearly concerns the powers of civil servants and employees, you are putting a marshal at risk of breaking the law. Mr. Marshal, I would also like to ask for information as to why you agreed to proceed with a bill which clearly does not meet the requirements of the article. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, this applies inter alia. lack of information on the financial consequences of the project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u362	There you go. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. [[It's against the law.]] We're in the middle of a vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 167 Members, against 264 Members, abstained from voting. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. The question has been asked by the Members. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u363	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. President! On December 13th, you were talking about a bunch of guys who sat down all over the administration. Your words materialize in the Parliamentary draft amending the Civil Service Act. The actual name should be: "The group release of people in higher positions in the civil service." [[Applause]] [[That's good!]] This project cuts the head off a civilian corps. The basic question is, why are you doing this to the Prime Minister? [[Which he doesn't have.]] It is the Prime Minister who is the constitutional head... [[It's true.]] ...a civilian corps. [[Exactly.]] Let her authorize this change, a change that goes too far. It is your prime minister who should take responsibility for the loss to you, the harm to the people who worked while you, Mr President, were the prime minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I saw your signature on their engagements. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[It's a really great performance.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u364	Please, Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u365	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another bill, you can say, from the cycle: pissing piss. You've already changed one bill to hire your party colleagues who didn't meet the requirements of being a voivode. Today is the turn of civil service, and you want to hire people who are going to file a party card today to be chiefs of civil service tomorrow. You have deleted the record that required candidates to take these positions for a five-year withdrawal when it comes to membership of a political party. Is that a change? How about instead of this five-year withdrawal, let's just say that one basic requirement to accept such a candidacy is a five-year membership of Law and Justice? It'll be quicker. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u366	Thank you. Mrs Andżelik Możjanowska, a club of the Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u367	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. President! So many bad words have come to you today, and I will say something else today. You're a prominent law and justice manager, the manager who created the party, you manage the group... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] ...so you know perfectly well how important the competence, experience and skills of the manager are. And I'm wondering why in the Civil Service Act you're destroying this, you're eliminating all your competences, your experience in high civil service positions. Why are you removing transparency and transparency? Mr President, do you realize that this is a group lay-offs with circumvention of the Labour Code, that a pregnant woman who is protected today will lose her job after the entry into force of this law, that by eliminating the article. Article 57 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2... [[Voice from the room: Retirement age for women even.]] ...we eliminate the possibility of hiring people with disabilities? Absolutely. Removing competitions [[♪ The bell ♪]] and these requirements are nothing more than putting incompetent people into a position.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u368	Thank you, Member. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u369	No one is forbidden to exchange and cancel...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u370	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u371	...but you can do it in a transparent way, not under the table. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u372	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that at this point, the questions can be addressed to Members of the applicants. [[And who's the applicant?]] [[The President is the only applicant for everything.]] Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for Members of the Civic Platform, Members of the Modern Members. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] [[To the applicant.]] Who are you defending? [[Mr. Marshal just taught me that only to the applicant.]] Mr. Marshal... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Civic Platform, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who are you defending? You're not gonna scream at me. Who are you defending? [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] A few examples from the last quarter, only from the last quarter of the Ministry of National Defence. Well, it's a bonus. Department director, civil servant, in the last quarter granted bonuses - 51 thousand. [[Voice from the room: Is that a question?]] [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Without permission, without the knowledge of the new management of the department. [[Oh, dear!]] Director of another department - 32 thousand, counsellor general, last quarter of the premium granted - 29 thousand. [[Voices from the room: Ooh...]] Head of the department, 25,000. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Senior specialist - 15 thousand. [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Who are you defending? Those guys who make a money heist? Is it about them having these warm jobs so they can still... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...admit this kind of, this amount of bonuses?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u374	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u375	Mr. Petru's laughing because it's small for you, but it's 50,000. It's money... [[Thrilling applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] ...which a regular citizen doesn't earn in a year... [[TKM.]] ...and civil servants to themselves within a quarter of this amount... [[Do you know what TKM is?]] ...the buffs admit it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u376	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 119 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the gym: Jumping into the cash register.]] 431 Members voted. 166 Members voted against, 243 Members voted against, 22 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Board of Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. We return to the examination of item 22 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. There was a motion in the discussion to reject the bill at first reading, which I am about to vote on, but right now... [[You can't let that happen.]] ...a request for roll call voting has been made. I will therefore put to the vote in the first place for a roll-call vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for a vote... [[What does that mean?]] ...named, he'd like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Who's holding back? [[Bullshit. Everyone's a name.]] 434 Members voted. 165 Members voted against - 251 Members and 18 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, in accordance with my proposal, has sent this draft law to the Legislative Commission for consideration. The question was asked by Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Platform Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u377	Mr. President! Mr. Marshal! This is a very bad project and I think it should be rejected at first reading. [[Voice from the room: Get down.]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] This is a project that you write in the rhythm of Kirov's law - the 1930s, the Soviet Union, 10 days to go on trial, the defendant has 24 hours to get acquainted with the materials. [[The voice in the room: It was your amendment that violated it.]] You want to reject, eliminate the Constitutional Tribunal, because the tribunal defends thousands of human cases. [[Yeah.]] The Court is always opposed to evil authority, and you are most afraid of it. [[Applause]] [[Apologize for the correction.]] Mr. President, we know Carl Schmitt's doctrine. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You want to look for the enemy, but you're looking for the enemy not where you're supposed to be. The enemy is not the Constitutional Court, your enemy is not the society. You're delirious and look for enemies there, really. Because that's the worst thing to do, which is to start a war in society. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hold it right there. Mr. President, you're the only one who can do this. I'm asking you to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[You're our delusion.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u378	Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print 122 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 163 Members voted against - 234 Members, 35 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the application and therefore referred this draft law to the Legislative Commission for consideration. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Parliamentary draft law on the Western Institute. Zygmunt Wojciechowski. The additional committee report shall be in print No 87-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Rafał Grupiński to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, an amendment tabled by the Member of the representative of the Kukiz Club was considered15. This amendment was rejected. Minority applications have also been submitted. The recommendation of the joint committees shall be to reject all proposed amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u380	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 87. The committees also present in the additional report an amendment and minority proposals on which the Sejm will vote first. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 2 (2) 1 point (1) (a) and applicants propose that it should be the task of the Institute to collect, develop and make available information in the field of inter alia. relations between Poland and the members of the European Union, in particular Polish-German relations. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 432 Members voted. 40 Members voted against - 388, with four abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the second minority proposal to Article. 2 (2) 1 point (1) (a) b applicants propose that it should be the task of the Institute to collect, develop and share information on, inter alia. political, economic, social and cultural developments in European countries, in particular in Germany. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the second minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 30 Members voted against - 397, 7 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the third minority proposal to Article. 2 (2) 1 point (1) (a) e applicants propose that it should be the task of the Institute to collect, develop and make available information in the field of inter alia. processes related to the formation of collective memory and historical policy as well as partnership relations and the conduct of Polish policy. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 38 Members voted against - 393 Members and 2 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority proposal in the added lit. f to Article. 2 (2) Point 1 of the proposal suggests that the tasks of the Institute should include the collection, development and provision of information in the field of inter alia. the functioning of the European Union, its institutions, legal order, policies and integration processes. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 26 Members voted against - 397 Members - 8 Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. In the amendment to the article. 17 applicants propose, inter alia, that the Director of the Institute be required by 30 September 2020 to report to the Sejm on the activities of the Institute for the duration of the Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 61 Members voted against - 369 Members, with three abstentions. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 87 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. Four Members abstained in favour of 422 Members against -7. I state that the Sejm has passed a law on the Western Institute to them. Zygmunt Wojciechowski. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 131). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 148a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 131 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 422 Members voted. The vote was 417, no one voted against, five Members abstained. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm ordering a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 49 hours 17 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Information from the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on the Ministry's work programme for the years 2015 and 2020 (print No 128). I ask the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development of Mr Krzysztof Jurgiel to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On a proposal from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Sejm Bureau placed a item on the agenda. Information from the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on the Ministry's programme of activities in the current parliamentary term. I wanted to thank you very much for that. It is an opportunity to discuss, discuss matters relating to our agriculture, also to present the positions of individual clubs regarding the documents that the agricultural ministry has prepared, to draw from this conclusions and, of course, to use them in further work on the government's action programme and the Ministry for Agriculture and Rural Development. According to the exposé, the prime minister of our government and I, as a minister, are in favour of listening to citizens, listening here, in this case, to parliamentarians, using it in their work to carry out tasks towards the society that are intended to improve the quality of life in Poland, in this case we are talking about rural areas. We have provided you with the relevant document as a resort, which is contained in one of the seym prints. This document presents the directions or programme of activities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development for the years 2015 and 2019. What is the philosophy of our action? Firstly, we analysed the policy carried out in rural areas in 2008, and described the impact of this policy, indicating the areas and state of affairs that were being pursued. This is precisely described in the document, I will just point out that as a result of this policy, our farmers do not have a level playing field in the single European market, have lower subsidies, other regulations that are detrimental to the functioning of this area. The second issue is a fragmented agricultural market, especially recently we have problems with the milk market, the pigmeat market. There are no arrangements for insurance, crop and animal insurance, there is no law on stabilisation of agricultural income, there is no guarantee fund. This was all announced eight years ago, unfortunately, these tasks have not been carried out. Other issues are the change in rural policy. I am thinking here that in the programming documents prepared by the Government of Law and Justice in 2006 and 2007, we introduced sustainable development in Poland and the policies adopted at that time made it possible to balance the standard of living in rural areas in a short time. Unfortunately, this policy was revised in 2008, and these basic documents, such as the National Regional Development Strategy, were redrafted, such as the operational programmes that resulted from cohesion policy. This has led to deterioration, spread and income, and quality of life between the city and the village. Many issues have also been announced concerning the consolidation of institutions, regarding food safety or the merger of certain agencies, including paying agencies. It seems that 8 years is a long time, but at that time, in fact, when it comes to the functioning of agriculture and rural areas, little has been done. Taking over the rural development and agriculture, we have just presented an assessment of these 8 years, but there are also issues that need further clarification. There will be a time when the relevant authorities, the institutions that are appointed to assess this, like the Supreme Audit Chamber or audit bodies, will submit reports and then it will be possible for the High Sejm to present the results of these cases. These negligence concerns the lack of an adequate system in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, which has led to delays and difficulties in the execution of payments for 2015, as well as delays resulting in a delay for 2016. It's a matter of human resources policy. This was assessed by the Supreme Chamber of Control by the law firm of the then Prime Minister Donald Tusk. Here it was referred to as nepotism, guyshood, using state institutions to fill positions with political activists. That's what we found. How are we supposed to act between 2015 and 2020? Firstly, our task is to carry out the tasks and issues arising from the three basic departments of government administration, here I am thinking about the departments: agriculture, rural development, agricultural markets. That's where those things are written down. Moreover, cohesion policy and government programmes. And that is the task that is being carried out on an ongoing basis, and that is the responsibility of the minister, who is responsible for these departments of government administration on behalf of the government, and that is what we are doing. We have made an evaluation, an appropriate document has been created, a list of cases not implemented in the Ministry or requiring urgent implementation. This will be successful. The next issue that we have launched is to address about 150 institutions, organisations, organisations that want to present problems and proposals for them to be implemented by the resort. By December 20 we receive, we collect in principle these conclusions, we will develop a catalogue of these cases, we predict today - we have received the first letters - that there will probably be about a thousand of them. We will make such a catalogue, a register and these matters gradually, with the participation of representatives of these organizations, we will direct to legislation or to the program, or we will say that it is not possible to carry out these tasks. There's a lot of these things. Besides, I welcome many stakeholders who present problems, problems that need to be solved. I think here, with the help of the High House, we will work out these tasks together. And the third - fourth basically - element is the issue of the agricultural programme of Law and Justice. On the basis of this functioning system, which we have, if we can say so, we will gradually introduce specific points in our programme, so that the agricultural policy that will be pursued will lead to stability in the agricultural markets, to a level playing field between our conditions in Poland and the conditions in the European single market. In general, the aim is stable, economical agriculture. And here, the big thing, the second, is to improve the quality of life in rural areas, so we want rural areas to be a place to live, work and rest. These are our objectives and are related to activities and tasks. These tasks have been addressed in a number of areas and in these areas we have exchanged the objective of these tasks and then they have been implemented. The first area is the common agricultural policy and international cooperation. Here we must participate consistently in talks on the agreement between the United States and the European Union within the WTO. And that's where the disturbing information comes in. The recent WTO negotiations were in Nairobi. In my opinion, Poland has been too soft so far to these problems, but the most important thing ahead of us is the review of the common agricultural policy. And here the whole government is preparing a strategy for negotiations within the framework of the common agricultural policy concerning the financial perspective, cohesion policy, but also, above all, the common agricultural policy. In 2013, the High House adopted a resolution on the European Union's violation of articles, three articles on discrimination against our economic operators. To this we must go back and make it clear to Brussels that this should not be the case in order for the solutions that are being adopted to break the Treaty, in this case Lisbon. The second very important issue is the issue of agricultural markets and the measures to be taken in this regard. First of all, it is important to seek to amend the EU regulations, this legislative package on agricultural markets, including in the area of risk management, where the relevant provisions should be more specific, because the European Commission's freedoms have now been left too much to introduce delegated acts, and the role of the national state is such a asking role and, as far as the law is concerned, it should not be. We will try to present here proposals that can be accepted. Moreover, in the opinions of our representatives in the European Union, as well as those of some countries, it was clear that these solutions adopted in 2013 in the legislative package were indeed implemented under the influence of some lobbies which wanted to very liberalize this market, a market which, with such globalisation, leads us to have strong, big problems, especially recently, in the pig market. Here we have prepared a package of actions that can be implemented when it comes to pigs. I think it'll ease the situation. We present this next week, also with appropriate solutions that will reduce costs, increasing the profitability of pig production. This is a very important issue in rural areas. This is where we want to change this policy. Together with the Ministry of Development, we will make changes to these basic government documents, returning to 2006, 2007 when it was clearly stated that rural areas, the whole development should be sustainable development. As I said before, this policy was changed in 2008. We are returning to the situation where more instruments and actions will be targeted at rural areas to address the social and economic problems we have in rural areas. This document, which will cover all these tasks and actions, including cohesion policy, will be the rural pact, a pact which will define actions, then how they will be implemented with funding, as well as the Ministry and institutions responsible for implementing these actions. There are already a lot of articles in these areas or possibilities. We are at the stage of completing the work on the objectives of the rural pact. We want this pact to be operational since 2017 and within the framework of the new budget and development funding in Poland. The next issue that we want to pursue is the issue of the institutions and organisations that exist in the area of agriculture. We will consolidate food safety institutions, and we will set up a Rural Development Agency, which will have a development and programme part in addition to the payment. Municipalities and other local authorities should have a partner in carrying out the development tasks addressed by the State to rural areas. We have already drawn up a law that will allow agricultural advice to be transferred under the direct supervision of the Minister. Over the years, giving advice to local governments led to the fact that this advice is practically not functioning. This is a very necessary instrument in a country where a number of areas need to be handled. Specialist advice on dairy, livestock farming, economic and rural development in terms of job creation needs to be put in place. It is to be an institution that should serve farmers and rural residents. We also want to change the Act on Agricultural Chambers, so that there are voivodship conventions in the voivodships, because the present agricultural chambers are rachitic - two representatives in the powiats - which leads to the fact that it is not the authentic voice of farmers, and after all, agricultural chambers are representatives of the village. We also want to strengthen the participation of our trade union organisations in representing Poland in the European Union, among others. It's about COPA-COGECA, and here too, this voice is very much needed. An important task is the issue of agricultural education, vocational education, R &amp; D units and their use throughout the process of innovation in agriculture. We will carry out all these tasks. We also want to introduce self-government mutual societies that can be co-financed under the Rural Development Programme, in addition to amending this law, which is currently in force. That's a possibility. This would address a problem of lack of financial resources, which was the case in the event of drought or market disruption. These tasks, as I said, plus those tasks that will be presented by different organisations and institutions will be the basis for our action. Therefore, I encourage us, together - and I will present here, if this is the will of the High House, the next stages of our work - to make agriculture stable once again, so that it brings income to farmers, that rural areas are a place to live, work and that the quality of life in rural areas is improved. I expect that today's discussion will bring reference to this document, to the directions of action, but also to proposals for action by individual parties in the Sejm, so that these voices can be used in further work on the functioning and improvement of the agricultural area in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u382	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u383	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Law and Justice Club an opinion on the information submitted by the Minister. I would like to say that we very much welcome the announcement of the implementation of the rural and agricultural programme prepared by the Law and Justice Agricultural Team. We worked on it, corrected it, corrected it. Life changes - tempora mutantur et nos mutamur in illis - so his correction was obvious. We introduced it to the villagers, they accepted it and we want to implement it. What the Minister has presented is a provision of the Law and Justice Programme, which will be implemented in the coming years. I am aware that we are all aware that, in order to implement such an ambitious programme, a strategy for many years prepared for rural areas and agriculture, we need the cooperation of the whole government, of all the resorts. Often the Minister of Agriculture is the on-call boy charged with various shortcomings, although the tools to implement certain activities are the responsibility of other departments. Therefore, the announcement of good cooperation with other resorts, support from the Prime Minister is very important information that not only the Minister of Agriculture, but also the entire government takes the programme for the Polish village seriously. The described areas of activity, which the Minister presented as tasks described in a series of very detailed actions, include all that is needed for the Polish countryside in the coming years and where public authority intervention can bring results. It is not that the state will somehow affect every area, but there are areas that the Minister has mentioned which require the government to act directly. Area one, common agricultural policy and international cooperation. It is clear that in a globalised world, in the eleventh year of membership of the European Union, active international policies are essential. And here in the European Union the position of Poland, its activity must increase. We have special hopes in the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy, for which the agricultural sector is already preparing. You briefed the minister on the committee. I am also very much looking forward to working with all those Members who are involved in these matters in the Sejm. This is where cross-party cooperation, trans-political cooperation is needed. But international activity is not just a question of the European Union. The Union is an important player in the international arena, but it is not the only institution that has an impact. There is also a need for ongoing activities within the World Trade Organisation or subsequent rounds that are being conducted, including what may be a blessing for Europe, but with poor negotiation it may be a curse, namely the TTIP, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership with North America. The talks are ongoing, for Poland, for Polish agriculture and an opportunity, and at the same time a great threat. Here the Polish government must be very, very active. Area two, directly related to agriculture, its competitiveness, its food economy, food safety. The Minister described the out-of-control markets. There is no time to talk more about the causes, but there is a need to improve the stability of agricultural production. Improvement which will allow for rational planning also at the level of individual farms. Certainly, actions related to both vertical and horizontal links between farmers and processing and agriculture are needed. It is also extremely important, and Law and Justice strongly raises this, increasing the role of Polish food in the internal market. The situation that the internal market in Poland, the market of 40 million people, also the border zone, where Polish food is willingly bought, is dominated by foreign food, and we must look for export opportunities. Of course, we see all these export-related activities, export promotions. These activities should be continued and developed creatively. It is also necessary to return to the idea of 2007 to create, at least in the most important from the agricultural, our food point of view, the positions of agricultural advisors who will look for new opportunities for Polish food. Besides, there's no need to break open the door. This is exactly the role of agricultural advisors of many embassies accredited in Warsaw, so the role of diplomacy in this area must be much stronger than it has been so far. The third area, rural development, i.e. the creation of such living conditions in rural areas, so that they are not worse, discriminatory in relation to living in other areas of the country, which is absolutely obvious. I am pleased that the government will build on the principles of sustainable development on those actions that will be implemented in rural areas. We are moving away from the harmful concept of polarization and diffusion development for Poland. Here are the necessary actions of other resorts. After all, the problem of education, health, transport, etc. it is not possible to solve by the forces of the Ministry of Agriculture. The same applies to spatial planning, ensuring some sort of spatial governance in rural development. It is also important to look for additional income for rural areas, both to market production from small farms - they cannot only be social farms - to market even through solutions for direct sales and non-agricultural functions of rural areas, including a new historic opportunity in the form of the development of renewable energy in rural areas. Someone once said - and I support it - that the village can be a huge green power plant, which will also generate revenue in what society expects, i.e. in the production of energy. Social policy. The village is an area of poverty. Parameters pointing to quality of life in rural areas, all data and analyses say that the village has a certain disadvantage in relation to urban areas. This needs to be leveled. Not just social transfers, of course, but what I was talking about, which is the possibility of additional income for rural areas. But the state cannot be a stepmother, the state must also be a mother to people living in rural areas and active social policy is absolutely necessary. In order to carry out the tasks of the government of Mrs Beata Szydło and the Ministry of Agriculture under the direction of Krzysztof Jurgiel, these are of course necessary institutions, efficient agricultural administration, appropriate programming and funding, i.e. what is included in the fifth area. We hope to see the establishment of institutions that will simplify the supervision of agricultural policy, i.e. the merger agencies and setting up a Rural Development Agency with three government agencies, and in the future agricultural advice. This is also the establishment of an institution responsible for food safety from those few dispersed, whose areas of action often do not overlap or sometimes overlap. This is the future of public farm advisory. It's a good thing the Minister mentioned it. We need to sort this thing out. The transfer of agricultural advice by the then Ministry of Agriculture to local governments of voivodships was scandalous, it must be reversed. The future of agricultural organisations, in particular agricultural chambers as the most important partner for decision-making, is also a madly, insanely important issue and we are looking forward to government proposals in this area. Area 6 education and knowledge in rural areas. Not only the village, all areas of life and success will be based on knowledge, innovation, intellectual development. The village must obviously participate in this. This is also an area where the Minister of Agriculture is not the only one in the division of power in Poland, on which it depends. We are talking about both the level of education in rural areas and the future of schools. Schools in the countryside are not only educational, they can and should also play the role of cultural centres, take certain actions that go beyond the simple teaching of children and young people. But we also need to recreate - yes, I am not afraid to use that word - agricultural vocational education, which is in a deep crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the announcement of the programme, which I am also a co-author. We're all gonna make a difference. [[♪ The bell ♪]] as much as we can, to implement it and to implement this programme, this ambitious strategy for Polish rural areas. I cordially encourage and invite all of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u384	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u385	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I come to give the position of the Civic Platform club to the document presented. It is a very comprehensive document. As the Minister himself said, he has two parts in his structure. One part concerns the internal audit after the Ministry has been included, the definition of directions, and the other part - and I can do this - of the direction of agricultural development. I understand that every authority that takes over the new resort is doing this audit. And here, of course, I have no charges. The Minister has presented everything to us while maintaining courtesy and good upbringing. I'm not gonna talk about it. On the other hand, I would like to talk about what you have presented to us in these directions for agricultural development in rural areas. It is a project that contains, as the Minister said, six areas. It is difficult to refer to all of these areas within such a short period of time. As the Minister also said in the committee, there are about 200 tasks in this document, and I think even a little more. I think that for four years we will have the opportunity to talk about the actions that are written here, and we will be able to talk about how they are implemented. So far this is a collection - as Mr Ardanowski said - more describing the willingness to act, which is a very general perspective for 4 years. It's also a little bit like that, you know, it tells your program. I understand that the programme was consulted with the public during the election. I have some concerns about how you will implement this programme of Law and Justice, but maybe I will briefly refer to a few points from this extensive material, which raises doubts, and maybe even no doubt, how much... because of course we give the credit to the Minister and wish that the most of it can be realized, because we all have the heart of the development of the Polish village. As for the first priority, area one, I am very pleased that the active participation of Polish representatives in the work of the bodies of the European Union has led and - the state here admits - strengthened Poland's position among the members of the European Union, because, I understand, all governments have a share in this. Thank you so much for your appreciation. On the other hand, it raises my doubts - because there is no clear position on this agreement - the TTIP trade agreement, an agreement that brings with it both so many dangers and so many benefits. In this document it is very vague that you are, of course, in favour of it, but a little against it not to violate our interests. I would like to hear this very clear - it is not in this document - the decision whether you support the opening up of this market or not. This is important, because, as I said, it has great benefits, but also some kind of threat that the Minister spoke of. The second thing I would like to draw attention to in this document is, of course, the issue of equalisation of direct payments, the one which contains two paragraphs of the statement that you will want and fight to compensate for these direct payments. I hope that this will equal at least as much as it is in Germany, but I would like to know when it will be done, because there is no time limit for you to come to that level at all. Next thing you know, I've already called it in on the committee. I am concerned about the policy of supporting the creation of farms by young farmers, which is raised by all, by each government and by every governing team, and which really depends on the ownership of the land in terms of young farmers. In the light of the withdrawal at the time of the Agricultural System Act and the memorandum for the sale of land, that is, the ban on the sale of land, it is a bit strange. And I would like to hear from the Minister what, in view of the preferences provided for for for young farmers who will be taking loans, will have the opportunity to take these loans on condition that they have land, purchase land. If they can't buy it, do you want to change it and make it available to these young people? That's one thing. Let me remind you that these loans were loans, where there were almost 60% of the eligible costs, and they amounted to 70,000. The euro, therefore, is indeed an important thing for a young farmer who wants to expand his farm, possibly even to set it up at all. In this case, the ban on selling to these individual young farmers is a little such an insecurity of their certainty for the future, so please pay attention to it. The next topic is natural, healthy food, organic farms, as the Minister knows, which I am very interested in, small farms and all that is involved, supporting this local production, these regional products. This programme describes, in a very interesting way, which we have probably all fought for in order to increase the possibilities of local processing in small factories, slaughterhouses, the possibility of processing their raw materials on site. I'm gonna be very, very supportive, very supportive. My question: I would like to know concrete because, as we know and have worked on this, there are absolute obstacles, often legal, so I would like to look forward to a more accurate description of some idea to come out of this situation, which you have ideas to circumvent EU law. The next thing - I think I have to cut short - is the concept of social farms, which we also talked about. This is also a little outrageous to me, perhaps not outrageous, perhaps too strong a word, a matter that I would like the Minister to think that you should pay attention to the fact that taking care of small farms, taking care of farmers who may be in a more difficult situation, is not leaving them on social farms and condemning them to this other kind of, other, I do not want to use the word that has been used too much recently, sort. It just can't be just social farms, because it's not an unemployment storage facility. These are supposed to be farms that are allowed to become profitable and productive and cost-effective. Maybe I'll stop there. I can see that time is inexorable, so maybe one more topic - a subject that I personally know as well. Many times, in many places of request, there have been ideas that possible imports of all kinds of agricultural products should be subject to additional quality checks, safety checks. My question: How are you going to do this? Is that what you're gonna do? Because they're all general. You know that the rules of control are described very carefully in a number of European normative acts. I understand that it is possible to change national, but we have certain rigours of European control. So my question is, how are you going to increase this monitoring, and hence, will it not be detrimental to our farmers and our producers? The next thing is what Mr Maliszewski pointed out during the committee. We're dealing with so much... I would like the Minister to maintain the level of exports we have, so that he may be even bigger. But from all of this document, it is clear that you want to take care of only family farms. What's more, I'm not against it, I'm gonna root for it as much as I can, but these family farms, according to the state, they're small farms, they're not gonna produce that amount of goods, they're not gonna provide that kind of... they're not a commodity holding. There's some sort of illogicality in this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you say that you want to maintain such exports and want to open markets, I ask: Who will provide these markets if you do not take equal care of large commodity holdings and small ones? I'm very sorry, I can't say everything I've prepared for myself, but I think I'm just going to sum up that of course we're going to cheer, we're going to -- as the opposition has the right -- check it out, say it every time: check it out. Here, I'm sure... We have this document, and we will be paying very carefully to the Minister. And I wish that all these promises will be fulfilled and that the Minister will have a lot of satisfaction from the fact that the Minister has succeeded in doing so. And finally, I would also ask for information about when and how these 3% will be written. the state budget to be allocated to agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u386	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a statement by the Kukiz Club15 on the information of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on the Ministry's 2015 action programme-2020. I will start by saying that food is an absolutely fundamental issue that every country must take care of, agriculture is a key branch of production to maintain the sovereignty of the country. Polish agriculture has a huge potential for producing good and healthy food. It is estimated that Poles can produce food for 80 million people. The potential is large, but not exploited. Poland does not expect privileges, but only treatment identical to treatment of other residents of Poland and the European Union. Ensuring sustainable agricultural production based mainly on integrated production is crucial for the competitiveness of Polish agriculture, but organic, local and regional production should not be forgotten. Polish agriculture is also a reconstruction of the Polish agri-food industry. It is primarily the local industry, which will produce food from local raw materials, minimally processed products, without preservatives. Here I will draw attention to the law on direct sales, which has been examined for many years - and further by farmers, which has been judged negative. Such foods must return to our tables to reduce the scale of avalanche cardiovascular diseases and cancers. What we eat affects what we later get sick. As regards the Minister's information presented, I would like to express my satisfaction at the creation of such a comprehensive 147-page document. It is very important for the public to know what they can expect from the executive authority in the near future. This is also important for the opposition, which has an effective tool to point out the lack of fulfillment of promises. Unfortunately, at this point it should be mentioned that 50% This document is an assessment of the state of play. Of course, the opening balance is very important due to the political benefits of its preparation and it must be acknowledged that all shortcomings, omissions, as well as the actions of previous governments to the detriment of Polish agriculture have been identified. The differences between the PO-PSL coalition declarations made during the pre-election campaign as well as the exposé of Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz were presented. Several times there have been mention of unequal, discriminatory conditions of Poland's accession to the European Union and the agreement of the government of SLD-PSL at 25% of the amount of direct payments envisaged for Poland. There is no need to mention the failed negotiations of the PO-PSL coalition on the common agricultural policy for the period 2014 to 2020 - by agreeing to further liberalisation of the agricultural markets for tobacco, cereals or the elimination of the milk and sugar quota - as well as the agreement of the PO-PSL coalition on a lower level of direct payments, which are about 50% compared to German farmers. lower. There has been a drastic reduction in the financing of agriculture and rural areas - up to 1.84% in 2014 At this point I will remind you that in the exposé Prime Minister Szydło spoke about increasing the financing of agriculture to 3% GDP. Unfortunately, to this day I have not received an answer to the question asked by me after the exposé whether this percentage - 3% - will already be in the 2017 budget, whether it will be postponed to an undefined future. The second part of the document, or directions of action. In short, it can be said: for everyone something nice - about 200 tasks, starting with improving the stability of the economic conditions of agriculture and maintaining as many family farms as possible, through actions on the market for pigmeat, sugar, milk, maintaining small rural schools, informing the scientific community about research needs to be completed. Really interesting reading, unfortunately, without measurable indicators of achieving the goal. There is also a lack of a date when the target will be achieved, as well as, and above all, the lack of costs and possible profits from the proposed changes. I agree with the main thesis presented in the first part of this paper, which talks about the difficult situation in agriculture. There's a lot of unsolved cases. Over the past few years, agricultural problems have been neglected. Farmers face very low prices for pork, ASF disease that hinders exports, hunting damage, problems on the milk market, drought, fatal infrastructure... It's a long way to go anyway. Things need to be solved effectively, and simple things are the hardest. At this point I will appeal to Minister Jurgiel, Minister Szyszka, and above all to Prime Minister Ewa Szydło for cooperation on the specialty of reducing the number of boars to less than 1 piece per square mile2. Since changes to the Constitutional Court can be made within a few days, I call for a revision of the Hunting Act - in the sleazy as possible of this House - until 15 January 2016. The reduction of wild boars is a prerequisite for controlling ASF disease, which has led to a tragic situation in the pig market and will lead to millions of losses and hundreds of bankruptcies in the spread of the disease to the rest of the country. This law will also solve in a large part the problem of hunting damage. The situation of exclusive hobbies financed by farmers cannot continue to be tolerated. It is important to keep in mind that power is for society and not for society for power. Agency staff must serve farmers to make the best use of EU and national resources - this cannot be a place of work for dudes - and must not only act as guardian of their own misunderstood rights. In the near future, we intend to submit to the Marshal's staff a law on direct sales that has been consulted with farmers' environments, effectively resolving the problems that have been raised for years. Next, we want to ensure that farmers are properly represented in agricultural chambers and trade unions, which should be farmers' representatives rather than themselves. In parallel, we consult on ways to restore small and medium-sized processing industries in each district. A well-developed network of micro-enterprises based on the local supplier market will effectively compete with large companies, producing cheaper and healthier food. The increase in farmers' incomes is not necessarily higher prices. It is important to look for solutions that reduce production costs - cheap and healthy food will find outlets. We also want to develop a model of an energy self-sufficient district based on renewable energy sources. It is important not to forget the overinvested farmers who bought, as a result of the erroneous policy of previous governments, high-performance machinery used on their farms to a minimum. After 10 years they will be as new, but they will be technologically outdated, and at the same time they are a huge financial burden. Until it is asked to provide for the creation of operators of widely understood agricultural services using these machines. To conclude, I would like to point out that since the entry into the European Union, Polish farmers need not only an efficient minister of agriculture, but a cooperation between the whole government for agriculture, and in particular the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, because today the decision centre on the issues of food production, what will be life in the countryside, what we as food consumers will eat and how much we will buy, is Brussels. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u388	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is difficult in 10 minutes to really comment on everything about the village, but I will try together with my colleague, with whom we shared some time, to show how Poland village - what the Minister said - looks like the eyes of Modern. This is perhaps the first presentation of our views on the countryside in such a specific scope. [[We wait, we wait.]] One of the key areas requiring profound change, which I don't think will surprise anyone, is, of course, KRUS in our eyes. The use of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund for years by people who have nothing to do with agriculture is actually unacceptable. The fidelity of the next governing teams on this subject is extremely irresponsible. After all, we all know that in Poland this insurance is paid very often by people who do not work in the countryside or even live in the city. But every government in the world did not really have the courage to sort this out. Unfortunately, we also have great doubts as to whether the Law and Justice will address this challenge. Definitely one of the biggest problems of the Polish village, in our opinion, is still a very extensive, fragmented agrarian structure, and the slow pace of change in this area results in a low concentration of forces and capabilities. Polish farms are among the smallest in the European Union. The average agricultural area of 17 ha is twice as small as in the countries of the old Union. In addition, we know that this negative average is affected by very large farms located in the west. This makes it often difficult for Polish farmers to compete with Western European farmers. There is nothing to hide, it can sometimes be compared to competing the owner of a small neighborhood store with a large commercial network. In many areas, we face too narrow a market. The dynamically growing sector of shielded crops in the initial phase has contributed to an increase in exports. Unfortunately, in recent years we have become too dependent on exports to the East, which causes considerable turbulence in various kinds of embargoes. The best example of recent years may be the apple planter crisis. Their dependence on virtually one direction of export caused a huge crisis, causing many sadists to lose huge losses and causing national panic. Some time later it turned out that Polish apples can sell well in Africa. We believe that markets can be expanded in a similar way in many other departments. Today we have actually another crisis, this time on the pork market. Again, there is a need to look for new markets that would give a better price this time. Unfortunately, good Polish food is not promoted enough in the world. The vast part of the farms has no power to penetrate beyond the borders of our country, and the government is doing nothing to consolidate these forces. Important rural problems should also be mentioned, in our opinion, the low productivity of the factors of production and in particular of work, but also of land, the low profitability of agricultural work, including the income failure of many small farms whose owners are looking for more and more work in the city, of course the problem of social farms already being raised here. In many places we have very high consumption of fixed assets. In some cases, the missed investments were only stimulated by subsidies rather than real investment needs. We also have a relatively low level of general and vocational education. Although the level of education is improving systematically, it is still lower than that of city dwellers. We have very large differences in the development of agriculture in the regional system, as I have already mentioned. On the one hand, very large and modern farms in the west, on the other hand small eastern farms, which often have too slow scientific and technical progress, a low scale of use of industrial means of production, but above all also poor technical weapons of work. These limited internal capabilities of the development forces indicate that family farming is just fragmented, poor and misorganized. The populist approach to the village of the previous ruling crew has caused many important problems not to be solved for years, but to be hidden under the carpet and covered with small gifts. All of this gives a lack of resilience to external factors such as economic crises or global challenges such as climate or demography. It also, of course, strengthens the weak position of agriculture in agribusiness. Speaking of all agribusiness, I must also mention that nobody in Poland, as I mentioned here yesterday, does not defend the interests of medium-sized and larger farms, tenants and agricultural owners, operating to a slightly greater extent. I mentioned it at the farmhouse. I understand that this is not very popular, because a group of voters not so numerous, but ladies and gentlemen, we cannot kill this sector of the economy and I will stress this once again. I remind the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture that this sector really creates a lot of jobs, in some villages it is the only employer. Therefore, once again, we need to balance the point of view that will take into account the interests of both small family farms and large agricultural enterprises. This modern position is, of course, an expression of concern for the Polish village, which we think is too important an economic sector to develop. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u390	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Lieder, Modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u391	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I will present the directions that we believe will give an opportunity to improve agricultural policy in the coming years, and which Mrs Paulin Hennig-Kloska has not discussed. One of the main priorities for the development of agriculture in Poland apart from those discussed by my colleague should be to promote and promote organic farming, namely specialised organic farms. It will be useful for this purpose, among others. improve access to seeds, to more varieties of seeds and ensure affordability of prices. It will also be important to increase subsidies for organic farming, as well as to strengthen agricultural advisory centres, research in this area, promote economic knowledge, focus on innovative approaches to agriculture and food production. A new support programme for farmers who will run climate-friendly farms should be developed in view of the progressive climate change and the agreement signed in Paris on climate protection. This is primarily about storing carbon dioxide in soil in the form of caries. It is also worth promoting the use of renewable energy sources on farms. We find such provisions in your action programme and we very much hope to maintain this direction. Much attention has been paid to improving animal welfare in the Ministry of Agriculture's strategy of action. This is a goal that is definitely worth supporting. A good proposal is to move away from the large industrial fattening of pigs and poultry. In addition, the use of yokes should be prohibited. It would also be good if meat and dairy products were marked according to the way animals are kept, as are eggs today. This will enable consumers to make informed decisions about what foods they serve to their families. It is high time to finish breeding animals for fur in Poland as well. The conditions for breeding fur animals are scandalous and these animals are simply suffering. Sometimes the health of these animals is very bad, even the animals are severely mutilated. Farms also cause environmental problems, which is associated with large amounts of feces. There is a great stench coming out of them, which in many towns is causing loud protests by locals. Escapes from the mink farm - American minks pose a threat to local ecosystems, where they begin hunting animals living in the area. [[The consultation has to be.]] A long transition period should be introduced for breeders to change the specialisations of their livestock holdings. With regard to the planned rural development measures, their aim should be to provide the inhabitants of these areas with a source of livelihood in the countryside. The Polish village should be an attractive place to live thanks to well functioning schools, libraries, kindergartens, health clinics, centers of local activity. I am pleased that the role of the civil budget and the Social Fund as a way to build social ties has been appreciated in the strategy. The development of local democracy allows to build local communities, while at the same time improving the quality of life. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the income gap in the Polish village. The income of residents and villagers is only 66% of the income of city residents. I hope that the direction you are announcing, when talking about the recovery of this situation, will be preserved and that this will improve the situation not only in rural but also in urban areas. Unfortunately, disturbing information has come to my attention that the government is going to move away from subsidising dairy bars, which for many lonely seniors, students and young people, families of many children and less wealthy inhabitants of cities are a very good source of cheap and healthy meals. This possible decision will contradict the government's announcements. In conclusion, we call for a modern, sustainable perspective that takes into account the interests of both small family farms and large agricultural enterprises. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u392	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u393	Dear Marshal, Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Starting this speech, I will say that the Polish People's Party in this term of office will support all good projects in the area of agriculture, and at the same time will look very closely at these projects and point out all the errors that are included in them, made and which can cause the good direction in which Polish agriculture is going to be slowed down or redirected. At the same time, I would like to confirm - after the exposé, the Prime Minister - that we have given this government a chance. This opportunity is running out because the first projects in the Sejm are already appearing, which require criticism on our part. Today I would like to refer to this material, which you have prepared by the Minister, his team, the agricultural team of Law and Justice, which is de facto exposé of Minister Jurgiel for the following years of office and which contains, in addition to historical elements, some proposals concerning the future. First, I will refer to these historical elements, because very much attention in this document was devoted to the assessment of opponents, 8 years of functioning of the Civic Platform Government and the Polish People's Party, and even more detailed information about the Polish People's Party is available. I do not take it any other way than that it is political competition and an attempt to show at the beginning of the office, to which this supposedly catastrophic situation in the Polish village led PSL. But, in fact, when we look at the results, not only at the national results, drawn up by Polish economists, but also by international economists, many countries, many experts are jealous of the progress made in the Polish countryside, as is the expansion of Polish food, which today reaches almost every corner of the world. Speaking of this audit, I have no objection to it - I also talked about it at the committee meeting - because everyone, when starting, wants to know what stage it starts with. My doubt is only about the size of this audit, because this is the subject more than half of the document. If we look at what you are going to do, there is also a reference to the audit itself. I don't take it any other way than just trying to reduce the role of predecessors, maybe just to get myself a better start. It's like an unambitious athlete lowers his bar, jumps through a small height and says: yes, I jumped too, I've also achieved success. In fact, we should care about raising this bar, because we all in this House dealing with agricultural matters would like this agriculture to be as high as possible. I will not refer to those statements which are propaganda, political, scale this poverty in the Polish village. I believe that this poverty, as represented by the Law and Justice, in their understanding, is not in the Polish village at all. But I also want to say, with reference to the document itself and to those proposals that are aimed at the future, about a certain re-evaluation, in my opinion, of ideas, of re-evaluation of certain views, as this village should look, towards social affairs. A great deal is really said in this document, which does not apply to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Minister himself, about the social conditions in the countryside, about which - as we have seen, how they have changed over the past several years - there is no need for unnecessary discussion. This village has changed completely, also when it comes to the availability of basic goods such as waterworks, sewerage, roads, schools, health care, the Internet, etc., as well as equipment for infrastructure that allows the Polish village to develop. And you want to continue, and very well. But in this document, in my opinion, you pay a little too much attention to it, and you do not pay enough attention to what really determines the future of the Polish village. And it determines profitability in farms, competitiveness in international markets of Polish food, because we are an exporter and we must be an exporter. In order for the Polish countryside to be better, we have to sell outside. We can't just be satisfied with the internal market, because if we look at it, not only is this market too small for us when it comes to production, but this market is winning because we actually have a very positive balance of trade. And in this document, either you are shy or you are not referring to undoubted successes at all. Export is such a success. There's no point in saying we're losing this international competition. In certain products, yes, but in general, we win this competition because we are well prepared for it. We've invested money well in previous years. We know what the world market looks like, we produce what this market wants to buy, we push others out of this market. And I would like to make it clear that those proposals that were made do not come to an end to the expectations of those who are engaged in business in the countryside. And the country business wants to take care of everyone. The word business is not a shameful word. It does not only apply to agro-entrepreneurs, but also to farms. If there is no business approach on the farm, it will be a social farm. Besides, in this document, you clearly indicate that you want to increase the number of social farms, and that is good, those that will continue with this production. But a social farm is one that consumes what it produces itself, it's not a commodity farm. Revenue from the sale of the products of that holding should be on that holding. This is very little in this document. You refer to Pillar I and Pillar II with clear emphasis that for low direct payments, areas do not create a level playing field. Moreover, there is one of the main elements of this document - ensuring a level playing field. In fact, and we all know that, it is not the direct payments that determine the conditions of competition. They are a narrow part of the income of the holding or the income of the holding, and the most revenue for that holding is the sale of production from that holding. And in order for it to be good to be high, it is necessary to actively use the funds of Pillar II. And on this second pillar was placed a great deal of emphasis in the negotiations, which was led by Minister Sawicki, Minister Kalemba. A great deal of emphasis has been placed by farmers themselves in previous years who have invested huge resources on their farms. It is also important to ensure that additional resources are made available to these holdings in the form of other products, e.g. products we call prosumer energy. It would be very good for us at farm level to develop the possibility of generating energy, small wind turbines, small biogas plants or small photovoltaic devices so that they can produce for the purposes of this farm and, if possible, sell it as well. This is an additional source of income to the holding, which will also cause that the holding will not be of a social nature, but of a commodity nature. But we must also make, and such efforts have been made over the years, so that such elements as direct sales revenues are even higher. So if there's an idea to improve direct sales, of course we'll support it. If he doesn't show up, we'll talk about it all the time and remind him. But it is also worth noting that it is necessary, and such elements are in the new Rural Development Programme developed by us, to increase the participation of farmers in the so-called. added value. The farmer can't only deal with the fact that he manufactures his raw material, and this raw material is later processed by someone else on the market, by someone else is operated from place to place, and sold completely by someone else. This one, among other things. they serve the ideas of producer groups. Such a role is to be fulfilled by the producer groups and the producer groups must be supported. You're also talking about income stabilisation by basically listing It's just insurance. Stabilising income is not only insurance against an unfortunate accident, but income stabilisation it is also the certainty of achieving revenues from sales in the following years, i.e. contracting contracts. We have adopted and prepared a law on the Agricultural Market Agency, which allows such agreements, and even forces operators to sign such agreements, to accept such agreements. We will also look at how these agreements will be implemented, how they will be proposed, because it is important for both sides of the economic operation to be able to plan for the long term. I also wanted to say to all of you, particularly to the Minister, that some proposals, of course, are of concern to us, we do not know exactly how some proposals will be implemented. These first projects you are presenting do not give hope that this will go in the right direction. I'm talking about the Food Safety Agency, the Rural Development Agency, maybe not exactly using the right name, but about this direction. If you consider, as a result of some control, suggestion, analysis that it is worth establishing such institutions, then it is necessary to do so in order to ensure that the existing activities of these institutions, good, in my view, will continue and we will not really cause these reorganisation changes to misuse of European funds or delays. By the way, the Minister also used the word "audit" very often in his speech, unfortunately referring only to his predecessors, which is what he found in the Ministry of Agriculture. In a sense, I understand what I was talking about at the beginning, but it would be worthwhile to use the word "audit" to analyse the situation on individual agricultural markets, which was done in previous years, for example. see why we have lost in the pigmeat market in recent years, and we have won in the poultry market in recent years, why we are on the same market a country that reduces its production, and on the other market a country that develops production, displaces others. We will probably come to very interesting conclusions, the correct use of European aid measures, the correct quality of production, the size of this production, the cost of this production, the individual share of farmers at the various stages of the distribution of this food, because if you can win in one market, then why can't you in another. And it would be good for the Minister to redirect these forces from audit to individual institutions and agencies, or from the Ministry itself on the regularity or irregularities of the predecessors, in order to study the individual markets, to find and propose solutions that will be more favourable for everyone, and especially for farmers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wouldn't want anyone to feel that in general, in my speech, I'm criticizing this program. What I said at the beginning - we will look at it, support good things, criticize bad things. But I have the impression that, unfortunately, this programme, which has been presented, preserves, strengthens what is bad in Polish agriculture, which causes that agriculture at many moments has problems and does not favour its modernisation. In fact, these products are sold in the world today, which are cheaper in the offer than others, after all we cannot close up, those products that are better quality, so you have to invest, and those products that are innovative, which nobody has. Elements conducive to such shaping of the image of Polish food, Polish products in this program are not present. Minister, speaking to you, I wish that the essential part of this programme was implemented by you and your colleagues. We will be a constructive opposition, not as much as some of you have been in recent years. Wishing this success, at the same time we declare that Polish People's Party with determination similar to what you have done in the past years, will watch every action in the area of rural and Polish agriculture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u394	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. If any of you want to sign up, please, I'll close the list after the first question. Mr Zbigniew Ajchler, Civic Platform, has the first vote. [[How long, Marshal?]] One and a half minutes. [[Voices from the O.R.: Two.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u395	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Members, The material you presented to the Minister is very large because it has 148 pages. It is difficult to make a full analysis at such a time, and I will not be tempted to do so at all. However, the material contains an analysis of the present condition, an opening balance with considerable generalizations, but anyone who starts a new job on his own - openly - does that. I am one of the trusty, and time will show you after concrete, detailed decisions, Minister, how valuable the recordings are in the material, how it will look. The agricultural market is very difficult, multifaceted, like no other, used by all Poles. The most important thing to me is what kind of man you are. propose a definition of a farmer, a definition of modern standards which you will propose to define a farm, a role and place together with their definitions of large farms, agricultural enterprises without which, Minister, there will be no development of small and medium-sized farms. Will these farms have to deal with themselves? Cooperative. I must say that with great care, I welcome the provisions on cooperatives, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which you've done, interestingly enough, I would say, never before or rarely used before. What I'm trying to say, Minister, is that I'm curious about what solutions you're going to apply in cooperative life. The whole of Europe is standing on it. And I'm very pleased with your position, your record in this material. The Act on the State's agricultural system will also be limited to matters relating to the marketing of land, in general to the whole concept of...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u396	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u397	There is a series of very important, even fundamental things. Minister, one of the most important things is import. 7 million watchmen this is a shame for Polish agriculture. So that, Minister, I want to say one thing, what I said in the committees: I will try to be a constructive opposition, I will try to pass all my experience to the Polish village.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u398	Mr President, finish up.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u399	I'm almost done. I just want to say one thing to my friend that the minks running away from the farms... [[Vice-Marshal Stanisław Tyszka shuts down Mr Zbigniew Ajchler's microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u400	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u401	It's these farms that have to be closed down because they're bad for the environment. So, Minister, good luck.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u402	Mr President, please leave the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u403	And it's our job to support all your actions so that the village can benefit from it. I'm gonna be one of those people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u404	Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Poselski Club15, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u405	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I myself am a farmer and I know that a serious problem for farmers becomes private companies that do not pay money for goods. Not only do they buy, but they also contract a year earlier agricultural crops that they collect from farmers, and then they just pay for them. Such a case appeared among tobacco growers from Lublin and Małopolska and Świętokrzyski. I come from a small district of Proszowice and we have the best land there in Poland. In black we mainly grow tobacco and this is an extraordinary problem, because small family farms fall through this policy of companies. Farmers contracted tobacco at the company for more than PLN 5 million. It's been a year and the money's still gone. There's a proceeding going on. Farmers are bankrupt because they lost their financial capacity in one season. The government should put in place an instrument to support farmers affected by unfair company policies and failure to maintain contracts. Reading a document on the direction of agricultural and rural development developed by the Ministry, I find a record of the necessary changes in the tobacco market. It refers to the introduction of national support instruments for tobacco production in the framework of the RDPs in the new financial perspective 2014 Support should primarily cover direct production, e.g. per kilogram of raw material produced. The point here is that a farmer who produces and is a good host gets that money and that it is [[♪ The bell ♪]] his additional support. This will allow to leave parts of tobacco production in Polish hands. My question is: Will there be support from the Rural Development Programme for tobacco producers? Will the interests of farmers affected by unfair company policies be protected? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u406	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Sawicki, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u407	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I sincerely congratulate you on being Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. It is an honorable but very responsible function. I've carefully analyzed the material you've prepared. As for the part concerning description and evaluation, in many elements, frankly, they are exaggerated and unreliable, but you yourself in the agricultural committee said that the evaluation is political, and I also take it as a good coin. On the other hand, I would like to wish that you could achieve the objectives and objectives that you have adopted in the programme as soon as possible. You are in a particularly good position, because the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance are the club, the political colleagues of the Minister, so it will certainly be easy for you to achieve these objectives. I would also like to wish you success in the international arena in the framework of the common agricultural policy, within the European Union, in order not to be as successful as the last Monday on pigmeat. Because when you're in opposition, it seems like everything is easy. I have also made many proposals on export subsidies, I know what the answers were. But I think you'll be more successful with the proposal for milk export subsidies. So I believe that what you assume, for the benefit of the Polish village, you will carry out for the Polish farmer. I wish you well, too, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want you to get to that 3% as soon as possible. GDP, too, so that you are honest about the past, because we know very well that the reduction in the share of national agricultural resources in the budget is also linked to the increasing share of EU funds. The 3% that the Prime Minister repeated in the exposé, I'm sure you will find it difficult to implement for your suggestion. from the point of view of possibilities under the conditions of the common agricultural policy and national aid. But the word is said, the flower in the fence. I'll keep my word on that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u408	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kazimierz Baszko, Polish People's Party, has the floor. [[Robert, they all saw you applauding.]] [[I even did it standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a citizen of Eastern Poland, I am particularly interested in the development of these areas. I ask the Minister to answer the question: What specific actions are envisaged in the Ministry's programme for rural areas of Eastern Poland? In border areas, in particular border areas neighbouring Belarus and Lithuania, there have been outbreaks of ASF for 2 years and especially this year, which require and require extraordinary measures to prevent the spread of this disease. What preventive action will be taken against potential ASF outbreaks in these areas? In particular, it is about the areas of the Sejne, Augustów, Białystok and Hajnów districts, and especially of the Sokól district. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u410	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u411	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I would like to thank the Minister for a very precise and comprehensive programme of activities of the Ministry over the next four years, especially for food safety issues. Protein safety is an important element of food safety. Today this topic is very important, because the vast majority of feed components, protein we import. It's genetically modified soybean. This level of imports is already more than 2.5 million tons, we spend annually, depending on the level of prices, PLN 3/4 billion. So there could be so much money left in the Polish countryside if this problem were solved. It is being implemented, and the implementation of the research programme is actually ending. The name of the scheme is to improve national sources of plant protein, their production, trading system and use in feed. I am glad that this program will be implemented for the next 5 years, because research is needed so that we are prepared to replace soy genetically modified Polish protein crops. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask, Minister, if there will be a modification of the butterfly crop support programme for the years 2016 I believe that we should do everything to ensure that this Polish protein grown in the fields of Polish farmers is fed in feed, not imported genetically modified soya. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u412	Thank you. Mr Robert Telus, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u413	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! I would like to thank you for this programme, which you have presented, a programme that I also know, because it is our agricultural programme of Law and Justice, which we have worked on for many years, which has been discussed with the social side, prepared with the social side. This program is good mainly for Poland and for Polish agriculture. I would like to ask, Minister, when will the law on the merger of agencies and the merger of inspections be? This topic is very important above all at a time when the price of pigs is so low. If we had one efficient inspection, this inspection would certainly help to ensure that this price does not fall, so that these external prices, Europeans, do not have such an impact on what is happening in Poland. Minister, I wish you success. I wish you success because I know you and I value you, but I wish you success because your success is our success, the Law and Justice. But your success, Minister, will also be a success of the Polish village and Polish farmer, and that is all that matters. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u414	Thank you. Mr Adam Oldakowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We finally have a program that's very ambitious. This programme can finally lead to the development of Polish agriculture. It is a program in which you can see taking care of the Polish village and the Polish farmer. Minister, I'm sure we have a harder time because the Civic Platform and PSL team has devoted agricultural funds to negotiations on a new budgetary perspective of EU funds for their own promotions maybe, through poorly conducted negotiations. Because if I heard that Prime Minister Tusk was involved in the agricultural negotiations, it could already be said that agriculture would lose on this, it would not gain. Because how can you say that? in my district, the average surcharge already calculated in the whole district per hectare is PLN 850? So where do we even get to the European average, the one counted 240 or 250 euros? Here Mr Maliszewski said that subsidies do not affect competition at open borders. Mr President, with many more subsidies, this certainly affects competition, and it is radically so. Yet, Minister, I have a problem. Farmers expect support, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those who have survived the drought on those weaker soils who have cattle. They need support in buying feed, and with late payments, they don't have any money. And what else are farmers supposed to do with Warmia and Mazury farmers who produce sugar beet, which Glinojeck Cukrownia withdraws from signing contract agreements? What can these farmers do? And they have machines for sugar beet production, and so on, they've invested a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u416	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Kotowski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u417	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! Many words and sentences concerning the evaluation of the past period have been made, but whatever to say, the past period has been characterised by the opening of many markets for products and exports, exports despite the already mentioned phenomenon of the embargo and a very difficult situation. And yet in the regions of Poland, among others. such as Sandomierz, the district of Opatów, where we have the fruit and vegetable fields, we almost managed to deal with this problem. We've developed a promotion. The Marshal's Office, the local government has engaged in this through the offices of legal advisers, through the office and the House of Eastern Poland in Brussels, the conference, we have opened Algerian markets, the Middle East and at that time thanks to producer groups, equipment... One group is able to store and prepare about 50,000 for sale. t apples per year. The question is, I'm running out of time: will the Minister continue to do so? And we would like this support for producers and exporters to be significant and strong. And quickly second question: What are the specific preferences for rural areas? [[♪ The bell ♪]] in cohesion policy programmes? I know that the government's working time is short, so if I may, I would ask in due course for a written answer to that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u418	Thank you. Mr Paweł Bejda, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u419	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! One of the many promises that PiS made during the election campaign was equalisation of direct payments. This was discussed at every election meeting, emphasized how important it is for Polish agriculture. Hence my question: When and what are you going to do and what are you going to do in the European Union in order to compensate for the level of European subsidies? It should not be forgotten how much the farmers trusted you. And hence many questions during meetings with farmers. And I don't hide the fact that we're crossed, Minister, and we're expecting a very fast deadline. The second question is the issue of stabilising agricultural income. What legal action does the government intend to take on the implementation of mechanisms to stabilise agricultural incomes, in particular on such a difficult market for pigs at the moment? One more question concerning the free movement of potatoes within the European Union. At the moment, regulations have been changed thanks to the procedures of the previous government, which allow conditional potato movements, especially of a young potato. I have touched on this problem, Minister, because the Union, especially the old European Union, farmers from the old European Union look very jealously at healthy Polish food. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is a potato lobby that wants to effectively block the free movement of Polish potato within the European Union. Therefore, Minister, I call for action to be taken to make these rules stable for the Polish farmer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u420	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u421	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! A few questions, little time. What about the farmhouses, Minister? Because you signaled here that you were making some changes there. Is this another coup, some kind of takeover? Because it seems to me that the agricultural government was functioning well. So far it's been an authentic government, one of the few. I'm in contact with the farmhouses, and these concerns have already arrived. What are you planning, Minister? What about the ODRs? 'Cause there's this bouncing around. They function as a government institution, it's better if it's self-government. Self-government at the moment, taking back - as I hear - is to be. This certainly is not good for agricultural advice. I was pleased to hear one thing: helping rural schools, Minister. I'd like to see some detail here about how you're going to help agricultural schools, because that's actually a big problem. I live in a municipality where there are 17 towns, there is a country school in each one, and the uncle is really having huge trouble keeping these schools. That's why I'd like some information about what it's gonna look like. This is really needed and a good proposal, but how will it be implemented, how will this support be followed? The Minister said, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's supposed to be a village center. I share that view. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u422	Thank you. Mr Piotr Polak, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u423	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Agriculture, Polish agriculture, is an important branch of our national economy and we Polish farmers, what we produce, how we produce, the quality of food we produce, need not be ashamed of. We are a significant or leading player, if you can say so, on the market of fruit, vegetables, soft fruit, poultry. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Here we heard: potatoes, of course. [[Voice from the room: Pieczek.]] Baker, yes, absolutely. These are flagship products produced by Polish farmers, which actually enjoy a wide recognition throughout, even you can say, the world. It is only a pity that recently the leading branch in Polish agriculture has fallen significantly: pigs, the production of pigs and the Polish prized pork. [[But it's just one of those.]] I think, Minister, that in recent years, unfortunately, one of the funds available to the Minister has failed to make good use of the Polish food promotion fund. It would be worth looking at this topic, establishing close cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to develop a good method of promoting Polish food outside our country, on the basis of Polish diplomatic offices. These actions can certainly be stepped up so that we can better promote Polish food abroad. There's a lot of opportunities like this, even if I mention the President's last visit to China. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think it would be worthwhile to use such topics in the future and it is worth that funds for the promotion of Polish food outside the country are better used, because unfortunately in the past years there have been negligence here. I don't even want to point out with my fingers what direction money was wrongly used, and we have money, you can use this money effectively and well so that we can promote Polish food abroad well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u424	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Polish People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u425	Mr. Marshal! Minister! In my speech, I did not have time to address the international issues that you discussed in the document and in your exposé. I want to ask you how you see this increase in Polish activity on the international stage, e.g. at European Union level, also in the context of your recent experience on aid for the export of pork meat or swine, because it is very important that in the European Union, apart from the fact that Poland should be strongly represented, it should take a strong position, negotiate hard and reach an agreement that will be beneficial. I had the opportunity to observe this last year, when we negotiated - Mr Sawicki negotiated - the issue of helping those who were subject to the Russian embargo, effectively, because this aid came and the crisis was avoided, but I know how much effort it requires and, above all, the ability to conclude, because we need to find support from other countries. So how do you see it? How do you see the issue of opening up markets or returning to markets that were once attractive, beneficial, and still attractive, but closed? I am thinking mainly of the Russian market here. In both cases, I am talking not only about legal matters, but also about business matters, because we have to sell there. The European Union market is 500 million inhabitants, the Russian market is almost 150 million inhabitants, so it cannot be said that both are irrelevant to us, and a rational policy must be pursued. It is also worth knowing that in recent times, when we had the opportunity to co-chair this country, exports of Polish food products increased almost two and a half times: from 10 billion to 23 billion, and this is not only how you repeat like a mantra, re-export, but the great majority are Polish food products. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one more question, really. How do you assess the chances of an agreement with the United States on trade liberalisation, and in what elements is it beneficial for Poland, in which it is not? And how do you see the chances of submitting Polish comments to these negotiations, effective comments, in terms of losses or profits for Polish agriculture? How do you see it? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u426	Thank you. Mr Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! I am convinced that the sine qua non of rural development is an increase in the income of citizens living there. There are many solutions in other countries that need to be previewed and tried to use them in Poland. New solutions are emerging. Certainly, in the area of agriculture, support for production and its marketing in small farms is one of the most important issues, including conversations with commercial networks, to increase purchases on the Polish market. What I'm trying to say is that networks work the way countries let them. Rural development based on a multi-purpose model, including renewable energy functions, residential, recreational and tourist functions, environmental-related, including a new opportunity to absorb carbon dioxide, not so much social transfers, important during the transition period as well as the opportunities to work and use rural resources are a prerequisite for successful change in line with our national interest. I am convinced that we can do this, that there is a social consent and there is a great opportunity. We have to take this chance. If we make good use of the time that's coming, we can safely say that we've done our homework well. and that the Polish village is in good hands. We can do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u428	Thank you. Mr Ryszard Bartosik, Law and Justice have the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! First of all, I wanted to thank you for this program. It's the program the farmers were waiting for. Let us wish that it can be realized in accordance with the records contained there. Minister, I would also like to ask and call for the provisions contained in this programme to be implemented on agricultural insurance, because agricultural insurance in this form simply belongs to farmers and any vote against these insurances is not allowed. Please make sure that this agricultural insurance scheme, KRUS, is implemented. One more question about direct payments. As you know, these subsidies are not implemented because of the predecessors, as we wish, as they should be. That is why I wanted to ask: What measures did the Ministry take in this regard in order to correct this obvious omission as soon as possible? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u430	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Krzysztof Jurgel, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this discussion. As I said at the beginning, this discussion is needed. You have drawn attention to a number of unresolved problems, to a number of new problems, and I think that most of the issues that you have presented are included in these lines of activity of the Ministry in the years 2015-2019. What I'm trying to say is that these are the lines of action, but the details... Someone here said that there are few descriptions of these activities. I want to assure you that we have 17 draft laws prepared as Law and Justice, which we have also reported in this Parliament. This is, for example, the Farmers' Cooperative Act or the Direct Sales Act, which allowed direct sales to reach a range of 40 000. But let me remind you that the decisions that were made did not reflect our direction of action, because as far as direct sales are concerned, suddenly there was a problem all the time with the compartment to which the farmer was to be exempt from income tax on direct sales, suddenly there was a lump sum record of 150 thousand. The euro, this amendment was introduced within one second. It is not known why there are now votes or questions, conclusions, but to give it up. There is no time to correct this by the end of the year, which is why by January 20, when registration is made, it will be shown. To this we also have, to all points, expertise or conclusions of various institutions, so that this material which you have received here is a part of those studies that we have in our possession and which, with the present possibility - we have the entire apparatus of officials, cooperating institutions, scientific institutes - they will have to support us or prepare these operational activities, so to speak, actions that will already be implemented in practice, because, for example, if we are talking about the local insurance system, mutual insurance companies, we have a concept. For this we must now prepare an operational plan: who, when, how, what financing, and all this is planned, but requires - like any document that goes later to the Sejm in the form of a law - the preparation, agreement on compliance with European Union law, economic evaluation. Do not expect us to have all this in detail within a month. We're just gonna set priorities. The first priority we want to pursue and implement is the insurance issue, and here will be the case... Now we are working on a law on shaping the agricultural system, the first law to stop this uncontrollable discharge of land. On the other hand, the relevant law requires at least one year's work, a law which determines beyond the rules of disposal, acquisition of real estate also rules on the protection of family farms, their support or agricultural policy in relation to farms. Once again, thank you very much to all the speakers. I think the atmosphere of this discussion is good, because we all want the Sejm, which controls the government, but also - I hope - to support certain actions, especially within the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development... Let me remind you that we have also been in opposition as Law and Justice and a number of dissidents, because that is the role of the committee, we have accepted in consensus, so as to point out the need for solutions or to point out the issues that should be dealt with. But so briefly referring to some points, thank you again sincerely. Mr Ardanowski - of course we have been preparing this proposal together for at least 10 years. She was being modified. Now it's included as directions for action. From this we choose priorities, and given those voices that were there today, they pointed to the need to resolve some things more quickly. Mrs Sunday talks about the European Union-US trade agreement. We regret that Poland is not directly the subject of this agreement, that the Union represents us, and in the Union, as we know, there are various interests, some countries have an interest in liberalising access to the Polish market. What worries us is that production, which is in the United States, this bulky production, does not meet standards such as Polish, and we point to that, we will point out during negotiations. As far as direct subsidies are concerned, that is what we are talking about. Someone at the end asked me how international things were. Here we are counting on what the Prime Minister said during the exposé, on the strong involvement of the President, the Prime Minister, who firmly stated that he would join these negotiations. I would like to remind you that in my previous term of office I sometimes felt sorry for Minister Sawicki, that neither Prime Minister Tusk nor President Komorowski supported in these activities in the international forum, because if we put agriculture in Google: Prime Minister Tusk, there are virtually no speeches, and we have often seen how Mrs Merkel or Mr Sarkozy were particularly active when it comes to claiming the issue of French or German agriculture. And that's one conclusion too. It's hard for us to spend 25 years... There is talk of the development of Poland. Poland is definitely developing, doing a lot of things, but it is difficult for you gentlemen, working 8 years, with so much resources, to do nothing in this Poland. On the other hand, there is no full delight, because in our assessment of this money could have been done more, better, and that is the assessment. The fact that it was done doesn't question anyone, but the question arises whether it couldn't have been better and more. President Sachajko spoke about the direct sales bill. Thank you for bringing this bill forward. I am sure that we will be working together to find a solution in this regard. We are analysing this legal situation, which is presently, especially with the Income Tax Act. We have an old project that introduces an exemption of up to 40,000, and we will be looking for a solution that will actually make this direct sale more carried out and make it a income for farmers. Another case - in terms of 3% GDP. Here I am speaking to Minister Sawicki, who called for this. At the time of Poland's accession to the European Union we had 3% gross domestic product, in terms of expenditure on these three chapters in total, with the CRUS. After the entry into the European Union, the measures actually had an impact on Poland. But why were they limited? Poland's village should receive these 3% GDP plus EU funds, because this was the goal of Poland's entry into the European Union, so that the standard of living in rural areas is equal to the standard of living in cities, and we do not think that this financial policy vis-à-vis the countryside should be like this. We, when it comes to rural financing next year, ladies and gentlemen, must pay attention to this - we are allocating several billion zlotys related to 500+, this addition. After all, this is an action in rural areas... [[Ha, ha, ha, Krzysiek, 3% as soon as possible, I wish you.]] I wish I could, too, and I think we'll figure it out in time. [[Voice from the room: Kids...]] [[Voice from the hall: They are also in the country.]] There is a problem that Mr Sachajko also referred to - the issue of wild boars, which has not been resolved for many years. It's not... Although I will be very much involved in this, Minister Babalski was obliged under the leadership to deal with this matter. This is a matter of the Ministry of the Environment, but I think that only the strong will of Parliament and cooperation with the government will allow a solution to finally be found that will allow real compensation for wild boars. We also have as Law and Justice a bill which introduces such a principle that it creates a fund for the old-timers, that experts who estimate damage are from the list of old-timers and that about 50 million would have to be added to this fund so that these compensations would have more real value. Here we are ready, and I will even try to get the government to prepare the solution, but in cooperation with the agricultural department with the agricultural commission or with a group of Members. I declare close cooperation because I think it's time to solve this problem. As far as the position of the Kukiz party is concerned, it is indeed a concern for the future of Polish agriculture, while when we are talking about the Independent... [[Modern.]] ...it is more advisable here, and it is also a concern, while there is this liberalism in the agricultural approach, in the attempt to liquidate the KRUS. This has already been a postulate often repeated by the Civic Platform and now it is taken over by the Modern. I think that the majority here will not find it to end, because, just as Polish People's Party, Law and Justice, we believe that there should be a separate system, as is the case in many countries, in France, because our system is based on the French system. We still believe that the CRUS should focus more on social policy, caring for people who need care in rural areas. Estimates say that 2 million people need help in rural areas. This is the direction in which this role of the KRUS should go beyond the pension and pension payout function. It's just this function. Then Mr Maliszewski, President. Here, too, this declaration of cooperation, I think, is needed. Of course, Parliament's role is control, evaluation. She must have her own form, too. I think that our long-standing cooperation with the Chairman of the Agriculture Committee on matters has often been mostly substantive. Although, as we know, there are periods in politics where we have to present and criticize what is wrong, and we, as Law and Justice, have played such a role over the last eight years. But you must say that we have also done positive initiatives. And what was included in this audit reflects our assessment of the operation of the coalition at that time. As for Mr Aichler's question, the cooperative issue, we have filed a law on farmers' cooperatives. This is an act modelled on a pre-war solution where the concept of an indivisible fund is introduced. This ensures that there are entities that do not disappear quickly, because subsidies or reliefs that are applied are indivisible, they pass to the State Treasury. The farm system bill was announced, and we're gonna be working on it here. This is a problem that has been discussed among experts or various institutes, even since the introduction of... Since 1990, the environment has been discussing the definition of a family farm, other definitions that concern the agricultural system. It's time to make a bill like that. I believe that within a year, two such target law will be created, involving people who are professionally engaged in agriculture, but also legislation in this area. As for Mr Kaczmarczyk's vote, the guarantee fund is needed. There was a project - the previous government also announced it - to introduce such a fund. In the event of insolvency of companies or bush companies, funds could be paid out of this fund. There is now, of course, the problem of the 5 million in tobacco. A company that's been decommissioned... The production groups have a problem. The producer groups do not have their funds, because this is actually a more organisational form. And this problem is noticeable, visible. It's just gonna have to be solved here. The tobacco case. We all know this: there was no agreement during the negotiations. I don't know if it was possible -- I didn't participate in these negotiations -- to make it a production-related issue. It was important, and the committee was also present in this regard. But I think we'd have to go back to making subsidies conditional on contracts, just like we did before, because there was a gray zone. These are problems that are known and are not easy to solve, but here we will have to adopt some solutions and positions. Thank you, Mr. Mark Sawicki, for your wishes. I think that at this stage this conversation should be of such a nature, and I will wish to grant these wishes. As far as this goes, it will depend, as you said, on the government, but also on cooperation with the state. As regards the creation of inspections, mergers, I think 2016 will be the period that will allow this inspection, the public health office, to function from 1 January 2017. The case that Mr. Oldakowski brought up, the matter of concluding contracts. As far as sugar is concerned, unfortunately, this market has been deregulated by abolishing quotas that will be abolished from 2017. We were against the abolition of quotas. Such solutions have been pleasant, sorry, accepted and just on the occasion have been terminated those contracts that were, contract will be terminated, and sugar has been thrown into the free market. It's gonna be hard to make it work. Yeah, but that's what we're gonna do. Mr. Kasprzak asked about the ODRs. I have already said that we will change our subjection, as it was before the last change: return to the Minister of Agriculture, an attitude towards more specialised advice in various areas. Mr. Maliszewski again. How do we evaluate the US-EU agreement? Poland should defend this so that we do not allow the Polish market to flood with goods from the USA, which will be of worse quality and at the same time will be pushed out of the market... The point is not to push imports out of the market for our goods. Mr. Bartosik, farm insurance. I was talking about that. We want to introduce a law on local insurance companies, but in general, when it comes to such action, it is for improving the quality of life in rural areas... By this we understand the development of local labour markets, the development of entrepreneurship, the improvement of communication accessibility - which we know has been neglected in recent years - increasing the attractiveness of rural areas, increasing accessibility and improving the quality of public services for rural residents. And it is in the rural pact that we have the 12 support areas that can be financed, such as ICT investments, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and the preparation of investment areas, investments in renewable energy sources, including the modernisation of the electricity distribution network. Recently we are working on a program for the renewal of small hydropower plants, there were probably more than 8 thousand in Poland, now we have 500. Further, protection against risks related to climate change, investments in waste management, water and waste management and air protection, investments to improve the accessibility of rural areas, socio-occupational activation, investments to revitalise local development strategies, initiatives to improve the quality and availability of health services and other social services, improve the matching of education to labour market needs and improve educational opportunities and, finally, improve the quality of spatial planning and improve the investment and construction process. These are the preliminary assumptions of the areas of the rural support pact, it will be developed. We want rural policy to be part of cohesion policy, as is urban policy. Once again, thank you very much for these votes, they will be used in the further work of the Ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u432	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm accept the information of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development on the Ministry's work programme for 2015 and 2020 for information. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm ordering a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 minutes 02 hours 19 min 12]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act (Print No 129). I ask Mr Stanisław Tyszka to present the reasons for the bill. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft amendment to the Constitutional Tribunal Act tabled by the Kukiz Club15, a simple amendment to the Act providing that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal choose individually for the 9-year term of office of the Sejm by a majority of 2/3 of the statutory number of Members. The re-election to the tribunal is inadmissible. We believe that the Constitutional Tribunal should be a politically independent judicial authority composed of outstanding authorities appointed by broad consensus. The current way of appointing judges by an absolute majority in the presence of half of the statutory number of Members causes that, in the absence of the will to cooperate on the part of a group or coalition with a majority in the Sejm, opposition is practically excluded from the seat of judges in this extremely important democratic order in the State body. This, in turn, poses a serious risk of a significant politicisation of the Constitutional Court and consequently of the fear that judges will issue judgments in accordance with the will of the political rulers who have contributed to their choice. Since the beginning of the 8th parliamentary term, the dispute over the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as the controversy around the law adopted in June and December of this year, are the crowning arguments for the need to make significant changes in the way judges are elected. It is also worth noting that from 8 years to the composition of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal no candidate has been selected as indicated by the largest opposition group. We propose that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal continue to elect the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, but the election resolution should be subject to much stricter conditions concerning the qualified majority necessary to take it. The proposed majority of 2/3 of the statutory number of Members calls for the selection of candidates for the judge of the Tribunal by consensus of all relevant parliamentary forces. The risk that judges would be imposed by ruling groups would be eliminated. Such a choice would force the Sejm to build compromises and would introduce the real impact of opposition groups on the filling of these posts. The amendment gives the assurance that the Constitutional Tribunal will be composed of the highest legal authorities not linked to political forces. In addition, it protects against the choice of people with extreme or radical views. Finally, this change would protect our country from further conflicts about the composition of the tribunal, similar to those we are currently witnessing. The proposed solution has been working in the Federal Republic of Germany for years. With our western neighbours, half of the members of the Federal Constitutional Court are appointed by the Bundestag, here in indirect elections by the selection committee of the Federal Constitutional Tribunal and half directly by the Bundesrat. In both cases a 2/3 majority of votes is required. Among other things, thanks to this procedure, the Federal Constitutional Tribunal has the reputation of one of the most outstanding institutions of its kind in the world. The Constitutional Tribunal shall also be elected by a majority of 2/3 in Hungary. We would like to pursue a political culture in which there is indeed the possibility of building a consensus of many political forces for the selection of the best independent legal authorities. We are pleased that we have the opportunity to present this project, which was not cleared the day before yesterday, but we are pleased that it was approved today. We are surprised that the clubs of the Civic, Modern and Polish People's Party voted against its inclusion. Our surprise is the biggest in the case of the Modern Club, because the representatives of this party have repeatedly declared their support for the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by a majority of 2/3. Today, we have also tabled a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic in this respect, which provides for the selection by a majority of 2/3 of the statutory number of Members at constitutional level. We hope that this project will be the subject of an in-depth debate both in the public and in the Extraordinary Commission on the revision of the Constitution. We believe that this idea to raise the majority required for the election of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal is one of the elements of the exit from this constitutional crisis that we have been dealing with since the beginning of the 8th Sejm, and that this initiative of the Kukiz club15, the conciliation initiative will meet with the kind acceptance of all the other political forces. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u433	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Andrzej Matusiewicz, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u434	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to present my position on the draft tabled by the Kukiz Group15, print 129, on amendments to the June Constitutional Court Act. This is an amendment that concerns a specific article - Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. I would like to remind you that, according to the Sejm, he has chosen the judges of the Tribunal individually for a 9-year term by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members and the re-election to the Court was inadmissible. Proposed change of selection by qualified majority 2/3 of the votes is a proposal that is worthy of discussion, of course it is also controversial, because, despite the fact that it is functioning, as my previous speaker said, in Hungarian and German Parliaments, it also operates in the Italian Parliament and I will remind you that in recent years a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal was elected only in 32 votes. There was no consensus on a particular person, but no one there protested that it was a violation of democratic principles. I would like to remind you that in the explanatory memorandum that you have quoted here, it is claimed that this change gives a guarantee that the Constitutional Tribunal will be composed of the highest legal authorities, not linked to political forces. It is here that all constitutionalists agree that the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by the Sejm is a political choice and as long as the Sejm chooses, it will always be so. Let me remind you that in our Seym 2/3 is at least 307 votes, and the majority club will always take part. Of course, all this will be spread over time, because as we well know, the next judges will finish their terms of office, in 2016, two judges, there are also such years that no judge finishes his term of office, because I think it is necessary to come out here as a rule of acquired rights, that these 9-year terms of judges who are already there should be completed. I would also like to draw the attention of the High House to the fact that we have some technical and legislative reservations here, so to speak. Namely, in the proposed article. 1 you repeat this sentence in Article. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 June 2nd Act: Re-election to the Court is inadmissible. It is not necessary, because the re-election of the Tribunal is inadmissible, and this is also a constitutional provision, which follows from the article. Paragraph 194. 1 and in accordance with the principles of legislative technique, specifically § Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers of 20 June 2002, such a provision is redundant as the Act cannot repeat the provisions already in force. I think that this is for possible change also based on § 7, the syntax itself of this writing is, to put it mildly, not grammatical and can also be improved. To sum up, on behalf of the club Law and Justice, I propose that this project be referred to a further procedure in the substantive committee, that is, the Legislative Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u435	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask Mr Wojciech Wilk, the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club, I would like to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act, print No 129. First of all, I would like to say that I am very interested in what will be the further parliamentary fate of this project, because Law and Justice has decided that this process of dismantling and weakening the Constitutional Tribunal will continue, only this time in line with the print project 122, which today, when opposed by the Civic Platform, was directed to further parliamentary work, and this draft Law and Justice aims to paralyze the work of the Constitutional Tribunal at the stage of its ruling, because it is very different to interpret the provision that the Constitutional Tribunal will rule in most cases in full court, which, according to the new rules, would amount to 13 judges. However, the proposal made by the Kukiz club15 in the project under discussion also poses some risks, namely the adoption of the provisions proposed by the Kukiz club15 could result in paralysis, but already at the selection stage of the judges - said my previous speaker. Why? Because in the current situation, it will be difficult to find a majority that would be able to choose these judges. Given the situation in which the draft was submitted, and therefore the time for a very aggressive attempt by the Law and Justice of the Constitutional Tribunal to deprive a very important and crucial role for democracy of its role, there is no doubt that the adoption of a solution which increases the threshold necessary for the selection of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal can contribute to the deepening of the chaos and not the real solution of the problem, especially since, in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal, the applicant writes about the necessity and willingness to cooperate with the majority of the Parliament, you write about the need for consensus - of course, it must be agreed - but what this will of cooperation looks like on the part of the governing party, we see on a daily basis. Perhaps you can see it, we don't. Therefore, the proposed solution in this situation, in a situation of trying to weaken the tribunal, is really unrealistic at this point and could block for a very long time, in fact difficult to determine, the choice of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, the more that the ruling party has done a lot to tell Poles that the moves of law and justice towards the Constitutional Tribunal are to restore constitutional order, that the Civic Platform, that other opposition parties, as well as those people who, on the last Saturday, went out on the streets of Polish cities to protest against the government's actions, that we are all trying to deny the results of elections that we are attacking democratically elected president, and since it is democratically elected, should not be criticized. There have also been attempts to discredit the judges themselves of the Constitutional Tribunal. This is not a consensus-building behaviour around the Constitutional Tribunal, and this consensus is necessary to select the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal in accordance with the principles proposed in the draft Kukiz club15. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, in fact, the clarification of the situation took place on 3 December. Among other things, as a result of the activities of the Civic Platform, an earlier complaint had been lodged with the Constitutional Tribunal concerning the Act of June this year. We admitted that there was a mistake, that we chose two judges of the Constitutional Tribunal unnecessarily and that it was a mistake on our part. Moreover, the Constitutional Tribunal gave such a judgment. Three judges were elected according to law, two were not - that is the ruling of the tribunal. I remind you that it is final and in a democratic state it should be respected, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the meantime, things got a little different. I'm almost done, Marshal. At an express pace, the High House chose five judges, and then there were some pushbacks regarding the publication of the judgment - of course it's a short calendar - and finally two drafts to amend the bill, including one that we are debating today. I think we should consider - maybe instead of submitting additional projects, we should first adapt to the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which, let me remind you, is the only body ruling on the compatibility of the law with the Constitution. High Izbo, I think the Poles are waiting for the fulfillment of everything that Law and Justice has promised. Instead, we're seeing a brawl around the Constitutional Court. I don't think we should be afraid of the Constitutional Court. He could be holding back the ruling party, but not before good reforms, rather from certain urges. Finally, I would like to say that making changes in such a hurry, in such an atmosphere will certainly not serve Polish democracy. I don't think it will solve the problems that have grown around the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u437	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u438	I would also like to say that the Civic Platform Club will not support the changes proposed by Kukiz15. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u439	Please take the floor of Mr Jerzy Meysztowicz, the Modern Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u440	Mr. Marshal! High - just a little bit of a bill - Izbo! Maybe there's an explanation at first. Indeed, the Modern has voted in favour of not putting it on the agenda, but it was not a vote against this amendment. It was a vote not to cause some confusion. We believe that all changes relating to the Constitutional Tribunal should take place in a slightly different atmosphere. We will support all actions that will lead to a depolitic Constitutional Court going to the Constitutional Court of judges of the highest intellectual qualities, with an impeccable opinion. I think we can work on it, and we'll work on it. We are in such a good position, both modern and Kukiz15, that we cannot and will not take responsibility for what has happened so far. That is, we are aware that both the Civic Platform and the Law and Justice have contributed to this conflict that we have. And let's agree that this is a really serious constitutional crisis. I hope that finding solutions that will lead us out of this crisis is the right way. So I would not share such a critical opinion that this amendment can actually make an even bigger mess. On the other hand, if this project goes to committee, we are open to work on this project. Because we thought about it - we thought that perhaps it would be better to introduce a two-step election of the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. to choose first most of them 3/5 votes, and if none of the candidates receive an adequate number of votes, then two with the highest support would be elected by a simple majority. This would prevent a situation in which we would actually be able to reach a pat, and we would not be able to choose these judges. Therefore, we are open and I hope that in the committee in a slightly calmer atmosphere we will be able to discuss this and choose the best solution. I will not hide that the Modern Club will also try to introduce, if possible, an extension of the right to submit candidates for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, so that they are entitled to the President of the Republic of Poland, the Bureau of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, a group of at least 50 Members, the General Assembly of the Supreme Court Judges, the General Assembly of the Supreme Administrative Court and the National Court Council. It seems that submitting such candidates by the environment would be a good solution, because we would certainly have people who are very well prepared for this function, and I will not hide that sometimes there is a situation where a large group of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are specialists in one area of law. However, the tribunal is considering a lot of complaints. Therefore, it would be good if there were actually a number of lawyers there who deal with various cases so that they could actually assess these requests to the tribunal. So, in summary, the Modern Club is in favour of passing this bill to the committee. And there, I think, we'll be able to think about the best solutions. In general, the Modern Club is in favour of changes that will improve the functioning of the Constitutional Tribunal's activities. Perhaps that amendment that... Honestly, I'm afraid this project won't go away because the desire to politicize the tribunal is too big. Therefore, I'm afraid that may not happen. True, we can always hope that something will change in this regard and that the parliamentary majority will consider that this may be a good way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u441	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Paul Beida, the Parliamentary Club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Kukiza movement proposed to amend the Constitutional Court Act on the majority of the Sejm governing the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The project envisages raising the current majority to 2/3. This is justified by the fact that the opposition is indeed excluded from participation in the selection. The applicants refer, for example, to a German who, in fact, assumes cooperation between political groups, but only to the largest ones, namely CDU, CSU and SPD, while depriving the other smaller parties of their choice. Most 2/3 is a very high-level majority, which will be extremely difficult to achieve in practice in the context of the permanent conflict between the POs and the PiS and the differences between the other groups. The majority of 2/3 in Polish parliamentarianism never passed the exam. In proposing such a majority, applicants seem to forget the political reality surrounding us. Is the proposal 2/3 on the part of the movement, which appears to be anti-systemic, reasonable? What's her purpose? Perhaps heating up the atmosphere and deepening the crisis of system solutions that the Kukiza Movement is fighting so hard. In my view, under the conditions of Polish policy, where two parties are essentially dominant, a majority 2/3 may cause political impasse and prevent the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. This proposal is rather propaganda-populistic. This seems to be a deliberate action aimed at making the situation even more difficult on the political and legal stage than before. Perhaps it would be more appropriate to change the process of selecting candidates, e.g. participation in this stage of scientific, judicial and maybe the President of the Republic of Poland. If the president has identified the candidate, he shouldn't refuse to take the oath. In addition, please note how the President's role has been reduced here in this case. After all, President Andrzej Duda proposed to set up a team within the framework of the National Programme Council, development. And maybe it would be a good idea for this team to discuss and see what solutions might be possible. In our view, however, the role of the President of the Republic is still very important for this Gordian node to be resolved legally. The majority currently in force should not be changed under any circumstances, as there is a real risk of a political crisis in this area. And also such a remark to the ladies and gentlemen of the Kukiz Movement group, because these are probably two solutions from your side that either you want to warm yourselves up in this light of Law and Justice, but also I warn you, because there have already been parties that wanted to warm up and burned so that they no longer exist on the political stage. And the second thing is, why do you want to participate in this chocholi dance about the Constitutional Court? After all, this is, I don't know if you see this, an authentic game of Law and Justice, so that one more group can get into this dispute, they want to resist you too. I don't know if you need it. The Polish People's Party will not support the project submitted by the Kukiz Movement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u443	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Stanisław Tyszka.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u444	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for those voices in the discussion. Firstly, I would like to point out that the Kukiz Club represents the only political force that proposes a constructive, concerted exit from this constitutional crisis that we are dealing with. Therefore, Mr Bejda's comments from the Polish People's Party are based on a misdiagnosis, his comments on the propaganda-popular character of our proposal are absurd. Mr Bejda, this is a step towards systemic changes, to raising Polish political culture to a higher level. Now, in that case, I would like to move on to the charges that often arise at a time when we are talking about the selection of judges by a majority of 2/3. Our project, unlike the Law and Justice project, has already been reported two weeks ago and there has already been a debate on this subject. Very often this allegation is quoted, it is a comparison of the Polish situation with the Italian situation. I am afraid that unfortunately our political culture is closer to Italian culture than German culture, which does not change the fact that maybe we should be pursuing German culture. On the other hand, I am not concerned at all about paralysis due to the fact that there may not be a choice, because it is possible to protect ourselves from this paralysis in various ways, but even more importantly, that if we chose by a majority of 2/3, we would have to deal with a longer debate on the candidates for judges. I believe that what the Law and Justice have done means that candidates could have been reported by the hour. On the 18th day, and on the second day they were chosen, i.e. no debate took place and the Poles had no chance to meet these candidates, it was scandalous and very spoiled the Polish political culture. If we choose judges by a majority of 2/3 of the statutory number of Members, this process will necessarily be extended, so long debates will take place. I am not afraid of paralysis because it is also possible to discuss - and probably should - how to protect myself from it. One way is that at a time when there will be no consensus within the Sejm, the judges who were the judges will still rule. And that should motivate the Sejm to agree. The second way, if this crisis were prolonged, could be by co-opting judges, whether by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal or by the National Council of Courts. From different bodies this co-optation can follow, e.g. of the former Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. But that would be, let's say, topics for discussion, fuses in the event that the crisis actually extends. In Italy, this long procedure was finally successful and selected. I am convinced that these judges the Italian people met much, much better than the Poles met the judges recently elected by the Law and Justice within 24 hours. Mr Matusiewicz from Law and Justice said that it will always be a political choice. Of course I do. On the other hand, this proposal will clearly eliminate extreme, radical candidates, because much more strength will have to accept candidates. Thank you very much for these technical and legislative comments from the Member of the Law and Justice Group. As regards Mr Wolf's comments from the Civic Platform, I agree that this project presented today by the Law and Justice will paralyze the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal will probably not rule at all. That is why today we came up with a proposal that was based on this proposal two weeks ago, while much has happened in these two weeks. Namely, we have proposed a change in the Constitution, a change which, apart from the inclusion of a majority of 2/3 in the Constitution, proposes the only solution which we believe will lead to the exit of the current crisis, i.e. the zero option. At a time when we change the Constitution, we should elect all the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal once again, at the same time, selecting all these judges in the congregation, which will actually make this consensus between the political forces easy to reach, we will start a new stage in the history of the constitutional judiciary, leaving this majority 2/3. I am pleased that the vote against the release of our project on the agenda by the Modern was only a tactic and that you declare your willingness to work on this project. I hope that both the Modern Party and all the other parties represented in the Sejm will support our draft constitutional amendment, because - I will repeat at the end - the Kukiz15 movement is at this point the only political force that wants to rise beyond these party wars, over this filming of negative emotions leading to the taking of people on the street and solving this constitutional crisis. It seems to us that there is no other way - because none of the parties will give up - than to change the constitution. And here it seems that in fact the political interests of all parties, while at the same time the long-term interests of Poles will be secured by this change of constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u445	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that the Sejm refer the parliamentary draft law amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act, contained in print No 129, to the Legislative Commission for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 5th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Kukiz Club15, has the floor. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u446	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I did not have enough time during the discussion with the Minister for Agriculture on agricultural policy in 2015 and 2019, I would like to add a few points to my speech. Small towns and villages become a hole in supermarkets. There is no doubt that support for farmers and local trade would be to introduce some sort of gratification for shops supplying local markets. This would allow competition with hypermarkets and would provide too much for farmers. Historical policy must not affect the everyday life of villagers and cities. It is reasonable to rebuild trade relations with the East of Europe. This will allow us to export our goods, open opportunities in agriculture and agri-food processing. At a time when Poles feel more and more connected with their country, we need to emphasize directly and clearly which food products are Polish production. In this way we will be able to support Polish agriculture and the agri-food industry directly and actively. It is very important to ensure the existence of multi-generational farms by supporting and adequate education of young people taking over farms from their parents. With the current level of mechanisation and the progress of agricultural production, we need qualified specialists. We need support from agricultural schools, from vocational schools, through technology, to universities. A protest of young people, parents and teachers took place in Świętokrzyskie Voivodship the day before yesterday. Schools in the countryside are at risk - in Cudzynowice, Odonów, Gorzków and Ziemblice. It is necessary to invest in rural schools and not allow them to be closed. In direct sales, farmers' cooperatives would be a good option. These cooperatives, in agreement with local government units, should form the so-called cooperatives. direct sales centres. Cooperatives, as well as local self-government units, would be involved in their creation and management. Shortly: such a centre would be divided into two parts - the contractual part which would be managed by the cooperative of farmers, which would not lead to abuse, while the second part would be managed by the local government unit in cooperation with the cooperative, which is so far the case for many fairgrounds. The local government unit will finance most of the investment with the support of the central budget. From the squares such centres would be different that the goods would be available to the consumer in the known and preferred form of a typical store, which would effectively allow competition in terms of prices and quality with markets, while at the same time ensuring the interests of farmers and healthy local food for consumers. I will present a more detailed draft of this solution to the Committee on Agriculture. Finally, I would like to call on Minister Krzysztof Jurgel to take all measures to protect Polish land and buy back the land in situations where there has been a violation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u447	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u448	Statement on the 106th anniversary of Adam Boris' birthday. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! December 10th this year We celebrated the 106th birthday of Adam Boris pseudo. Plow, organizer and commander of the battalion Parasol, silent. Adam Boris was born on December 10, 1909 in Nihanów, Wielkopolska. After graduation at the age of 19, he joined the Artillery Reserve School in Włodzimierz Wołyński. He then became a student of the Faculty of Agricultural and Forest University of Poznań. After the outbreak of World War II, Adam Boris was assigned to 17. The Light Artillery regiment in Gniezno, for his second throw. This unit took a small part in the September campaign. Under the pressure of the German troops, she went back towards the Polish-Hungarian border. After crossing it, Adam Boris and other soldiers were interned. In January 1940 he entered a Polish military camp located in France. He's been assigned to 3. Light Artillery regiment in 3. Infantry Division. After France's defeat, he evacuated to England. He served in the Polish Armed Forces in the UK for two years. He then volunteered for training for officers who were to be transferred to occupied Poland to power the ranks of the Armed Fighting Union. He has completed comprehensive courses in the field of diversion in the back of the enemy and paratroopers. As part of the operation, Hammer was dropped into the country in the vicinity of Garwolin. After returning to occupied Poland, Adam Borys became an officer of the Kedyw of the AK Headquarters. He's been under pseudo ever since. Plow and Bryl. In June 1943, he was appointed Deputy Commander of the Dispatch Branch of Motor 30. When he participated in diversionary actions, he met with the teams of the Conspiracy Scouts Assault Groups - the Grey Troops. After the leadership of Kedyw ordered Boris to set up a special formation to fight the Gestapo, the Plow asked the Boy Scouting Authority for permission to deploy 60 Boy Scouts under his command with conspiracy-sabotage internship. They created the company.Agat., later converted into.Pegaz and eventually, in May 1944, into a battalion of.Parasol. Parasol was one of the most underground and disciplined troops of the National Army. Agat-Pegaz-Parasol's battle successes are largely due to Adam Boris, for he was the constructor of all armed speeches. The actions prepared by the Plow were primarily directed against officers of German terror. The most famous of them include Weffels, Kretschmann or Kutscher. After the outbreak of the Warsaw Uprising, he was at the head of Parasola. On August 6, he was badly wounded, and by the end of the break, he could not participate in the fights. He was captured by the Germans. After the war he returned to Poland, where he was arrested by UB officers. He was imprisoned in a Mokotów prison, but from where he was released after two months. In the following years, Adam Boris returned to work, among others. in the Institute of Rural Farms in Bydgoszcz, and then in the Central Management Board of Meat Industry in Poznań. He died on 27 August 1986 in Witkowo near Gniezno. He was awarded the Order of Virtuti Militari and the Cross of Valor for his service in the fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u449	The December massacre on the coast in 1970 was not just an unaccounted for communist crime. It is also an important step on the Polish road to freedom. Interestingly, it is also an ideologically unusual event: a laborous rebellion against those who were supposedly in power both on behalf of the workers and in their interests. There is another paradox in this December rebellion: December 1970 is the time when in front of everyone something was realized that was somewhat pompous - but true - is called the solidarity of the working class. Where's the paradox? In the fact that the system of enslavement, maybe a little unintentionally, nevertheless built among workers a sense of their importance, dignity and solidarity, a sense of community, while the Third Republic of Poland was a sense of community significantly reduced or even destroyed. Today, the blood the communists shed in Gdansk, Gdynia and Szczecin is a story that we should remember, a story that children should learn in school as much as the most important events of our history. Respect and memory fighting for free Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-12-17-sejm-05-3.u450	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 5th session of the Polish Sejm. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 6th session of the Sejm, convened on 21 and 22 December 2015, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 19 min 52]]
