ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 18 November 2015, Senator Antoni Jutrzenka-Trzebiatowski died. He was a senator of the first term of office and a member of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Your Senate, I inform you that due to your absence at the first meeting of the oath, you did not take Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka. The senator will take the senator's oath before proceeding. The Senator's pledge rate is included in the article. Article 104 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Rules of Procedure of the Senate Senators take a vow in such a way that after reading the rota of the vows they pronounce the word "I pledge." The vows can be made with the addition of words, so help me God. Everyone, please rise. [[Everybody up.]] I'm reading the vows. I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation, to safeguard the sovereignty of the interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. I ask Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka to take her vows.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u2	I promise.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u3	I state that Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka has taken her vows. [[Applause]] High Senate, as previously announced, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the Government Departments Act and some other laws, Senate prints Nos 15 and 15 A and consider it as point four. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. High Senate, I would like to inform you that in the event of failure to submit legislative proposals during the discussion, the vote on this law will be held immediately after its consideration. I would also like to inform the High House that the Senate's deliberations have been extended until tomorrow, on Friday 20 November. If the agenda is exhausted today, we will not be sitting tomorrow, but if this is not the case, the deliberations have already been extended until tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 15 and the report of the Commission In print No 15 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! It has been my honour to present a report on the work of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The adoption of the bill submitted is necessary for the smooth functioning of the State, ensuring energy security and the division of powers in the departments of government administration. The changes proposed in this law will improve the processes and enable the implementation of the new government's programme objectives. The adoption of the bill in the form proposed by the committee will enable, in line with the government's concept, Prime Minister Beata Szydło, the creation of a Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs through the division of competences according to the project. Fourteen amendments were tabled during the committee's work. These are the amendments proposed by the Legislative Bureau and the members of the committee. The bill submitted to the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is the best that could be prepared in such a short time. It is very important that, at the stage of the committee's work, the bill was amended with the participation of the opposition senators in the atmosphere of agreement and understanding. I thank the senators and the senators of the committee, especially the representatives of the opposition, on behalf of their own and the applicants for their substantive support. I must also point out that, in the course of the work of the committee, by consensus between the representatives of the applicant and the senators, with the support of the legislators, a revised version of the law was drawn up and none of the members of the committee voted against it. We also thank the members of the committee for this. On behalf of the committee and my own, I ask the High House to adopt the bill in its proposed form. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? Senator Rulewski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Mr Senator, rapporteur! While you have given optimistic information that there was an atmosphere of consent, I ask you, to be sure, whether an amendment was being considered concerning practically all the departments being amended on the obligation of ministers, heads of departments or ministers to cooperate with the bodies of the European Union in matters specific to the ministry or office concerned. Was such an amendment notified and examined?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u7	As I recall, such an amendment was not reported during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u8	Thank you very much. The Minister doesn't ask questions now, because these are senators' questions. I don't see any more questions to ask. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. Welcome to the meeting of Minister Krzysztof Tchórzewski and Minister Henryk Kowalczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The proposed parliamentary initiative to amend the Law on Government Administrations aims to establish a new Ministry of Energy in this area, energy security and possible problems for mining, mainly coal, and energy security of the country. The Act also provides for the creation of a single section on the newly appointed Ministry of Maritime Affairs. This law creates three new divisions, including two which will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Energy and one concerning inland waterway transport, i.e. inland waterway, which will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. At this stage, I ask very much for the adoption of laws and amendments in view of the fact that it is not really possible to start the practical functioning of the Ministry of Energy in particular without amending this law. I would like to thank you for your very constructive work at the Senate committee meeting, where, as the rapporteur noted, all the amendments were accepted in general consensus, with full understanding, so that I thank you for this working atmosphere. This will allow for the smooth start of the substantive work of the new ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators like to ask such a question? Senator Klein, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for you. The establishment of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Shipping will also be transferred to the Ministry of Fisheries in the Ministry of Agriculture, right? And here's the question: will the financial projects, so to speak, the fishing fund, etc., be able to continue without any disruption, or will it require some revision of other laws that regulated these matters, or, what is possible, of any consents of the European Union?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u12	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u13	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, in terms of projects, and in particular the so-called "Fish" programme for 2014-2020, it will be implemented without any obstacles. The paying agency in this case shall be the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, as indicated in the Act. As regards the references in all the laws relating to the implementation of these programmes, they refer to the department of the Government Administration of Fisheries. This section goes to the Minister for Maritime Affairs in its entirety, and this will therefore not require legislative changes in the departments. The allocation of departments to individual ministries takes place on the basis of a regulation of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u14	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the Minister? There's a question. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u15	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the Act of 23 January 2009 on voivodeship and government administration in the voivodship gave a new wording to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 2 (3). To date, it was necessary to have three years of experience or three years of experience in human resources management. Today you want to trade it for a guarantee. What is the result of this change, and how do we understand this term? [[Voice from the room: This raise...]] In my opinion, a reduction...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u16	This change was a change on the part of Members, which is why I do not want to justify it. As far as the government's position on this change is concerned, we also believe that in situations where there are persons worthy of such a function, even those with scientific achievements, who have not had the opportunity to take managerial positions... The point is not to close the way for these people to take such a position.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u17	Senator Slugocki is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I think this is a decisive reduction in standards. This is not only about employees of Polish science, but above all about some experience and competence in human resources management. I do not question that the government will refer to the voivodeships as those who, so to speak, are close in a programal sense and perhaps in a competent sense, but the question is whether these people have experience and will be able to manage human resources. It's just a concern for this element. And that's the first question. Second question. Minister, yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, we discussed the regional development department. I have expressed my concern, which you have been kind to share, at least I have read your attitude, Minister. I raised doubts about spatial planning, which in my view should be reflected in the regional development section, but also in the spatial planning and construction section. I explained it as follows. I told you that strategic planning is within the competence of the Minister responsible for regional development. I have pointed out that spatial planning is an important element of strategic planning, because space also determines strategic choices in many cases. In the material we have at our disposal today, I do not see these issues. How do you solve this case? Will spatial planning be in both the regional development section and the construction section, or not, and if not, in which spatial planning section will be located? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u19	Thank you. Minister, you're still Marshal Borusewicz reporting. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal. And then you're Senator Augustine. [[I'm dropping the question.]] This is Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u20	I would like you to refer to the comments made by the Polish Towns Association. How does the Minister refer to these requests made during the consultation?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u21	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u22	I do not know the comments of the Association of Polish Cities. [[On the Internet...]] Well, they didn't impact directly during the legislative process, so I can't relate to them. [[From the Internet, Minister...]] [[Mr. Senator, the Minister will answer, and then you can ask the second question. There are no limits, so that...]] As far as spatial planning is concerned, in fact during the committee meeting there was a discussion on the division of these tasks. In the end, spatial planning, I would say, remains with the construction. On the other hand, with regard to regional development, strategic planning remains there, which is another process, not of an administrative nature, such as spatial planning, i.e. the adoption of spatial planning plans. This may not be the perfect solution, but... I would like to remind you of the declaration we made yesterday and during the parliamentary work. It is a parliamentary initiative and perhaps it is not ideal. Hence the government's declaration that we will prepare, so to speak, a cleaning bill, reviewing very thoroughly all the records concerning the departments of government administration. If any inaccuracies arise, and it is very possible that these inaccuracies in small parts will appear, even as part of a review of the precise competence of spatial planning, then such a law will be prepared by the cleaning government. And now, as I say, it was a parliamentary initiative because of the need for some changes, especially the appointment of a Minister for Energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u23	Thank you very much. Senator, she raised her hand first. You're welcome, Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u24	Dear Minister, in the section on the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, it is stated that the Minister responsible for Maritime Affairs supervises the Maritime Academy in Gdynia, the Maritime Academy in Szczecin and the Maritime Chambers, etc. I have a question. So far, these universities, apart from being subject to the ministry, were also, in a sense, subject to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. What's this case gonna be like right now? Because from this record it is clear that the Minister for Maritime Affairs will decide everything. Am I right or am I wrong? I'm asking you to explain.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Augustine, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u26	Minister, my question was a document addressed to both chambers of parliament and signed by the Presidents of the Union of Polish Metropolises and the Union of Polish Cities, and it also concerned those issues which the senator had just raised, hence my question. I'm surprised the Minister doesn't know this position. [[He doesn't have to.]] [[Voice from the room: How does it not have to?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u27	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u28	Mr Marshal, Mrs Senator, as regards the fact that maritime institutes and universities remain within the competence of the Minister of Maritime Affairs, this is on the basis of the fact that the Minister of Maritime Affairs will be their founding body, that is to say. And academic and educational supervision is the responsibility of the Minister of Science and Higher Education, as in many other situations, even if the founding body for upper secondary schools is an old-timer, but this does not diminish the competence of teaching, scientific supervision, e.g. in this case. Minister for National Education. So that's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u29	Senator Andrzej Spider, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u30	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I have such a question for the Minister. This bill was prepared as a parliamentary project, mainly to launch with these two ministries. There were a lot of amendments tabled at the committee meeting yesterday, and after consensus we agreed that fourteen amendments would be introduced today, and there was widespread agreement. I have just this question: are you able to declare today the date within which this new law will be drawn up, which will be very necessary so that these ministries can take competence from others and work well?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u31	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u32	Minister, I'm here about this higher education. Did the Academy of Seas in Gdynia, the Academy of Seas in Szczecin... This amendment provides that the Minister responsible for maritime affairs shall exercise supervision. It doesn't say he's a founding body, it says he's in charge. This supervision is also scientific supervision, it is something much broader than being a founding body, that is, substantive supervision. Therefore, I ask: what does this supervision mean?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u33	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u34	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Mr. Senator, according to the intentions of the applicants, this oversight, which will be carried out by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, is to be the substantive supervision of the courses of education, as to the number of persons, and therefore to be similar to the supervision of... I used a comparison to the founding body, which is district old age, and teaching supervision, such a substantive... But in scientific terms, as far as the teaching process is concerned, we do not subtract from the competence of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. So this is it... This is the way it is understood when it comes to education, the number of people admitted, etc. I don't know if I answered the question before... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u35	Not really. But I think the people who specialize in this issue are gonna ask. For me, this oversight is not a clear issue, and I am therefore asking what is contained in this supervision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u36	Thank you very much. Mr... [[Minister. Member of the Council of Ministers Henryk Kowalczyk: One more question...]] Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u37	There was a question of how long before the government declared to adopt or propose a cleaning bill, one that would order this case. We will proceed to work after the adoption of this law, the launch of ministries. I think it'll be about three or four weeks.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u38	Thank you very much. Senator, Professor Kazimierz Wind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Here there is an interest in this word'supervised', and I would like to direct my question to this thinking in a different direction. I understand that all the main issues concerning higher education are governed by the Higher Education Act. But there are a number of universities, let's call it resorts, such as military, medical or cultural, and in these cases it's probably also a word for supervision. My question is this: as regards this supervision of maritime universities, with regard to the word'supervised', was it modelled on other cases of Ministry of Higher Education which are subject to the Law on Higher Education, subject to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, but at the same time to a certain extent subject to Ministry of Ministry of Ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u40	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u41	Yes, thank you. That's not the answer... Thank you very much for this explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u42	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u43	Mr. Marshal, me again. I am now addressing the Minister directly. Yesterday at the committee meeting which discussed this law, I also said that other departments of the state administration... that the provisions in these paragraphs could also be clarified. I reported a kind of, well, amendment concerning the water management department. Because it wasn't fully worked out, and the Minister made a promise that it would be called cleaning the bill, so... Can you promise publicly today that we will be able to talk about this and introduce certain things here at the right time so that it can stand in Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u44	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u45	Mr. Senator! High Senate! Senator! Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, As we proceed with the work, we will also take into account yesterday's discussion of the Senate Committee when we look at all the departments of government administration, so that all the problems and proposals of solutions that would improve the work of government administration are taken into account. So this work will certainly be carried out and all comments will be taken into account... that is to say, they will be considered.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u46	Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Mr. Senator Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in the article. 1 is paragraph 12 or the 12th amendment, short: The communication work covers mail matters. I think it's a bit archaic, I'd say it's even rewritten. Does it seem to you that the formula "post" in a single number is sufficient and explains the current state of communication called post, where there is more than one post office, there are courier companies, other forms of delivery, e-mail, it is said... Wouldn't you have any trouble addressing the letters from this post office or these few mails?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u48	Is that the end of the question? Yes? [[Yes.]] Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! This entry appeared in connection with the fact that there were two tasks in the previous communication record, i.e. mail and telecommunications. This amendment of the law causes this department to be divided into postal and telecommunications cases because telecommunications will be the task of the Ministry of Digitalization. So so far the task of mail has functioned, and this task should be understood as postal services of delivery. The post office here is not understood as a Polish Post Company, but as a postal service that can be performed by various operators.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u50	Thank you very much. I don't see any more people asking questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor. That's the order. Mr. Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Probably the rush to work on this important law, the Law on the management of many areas of our economy, caused that there was no in-depth analysis of the tasks arising from the division and creation of new departments, including the Energy Department. Without objecting because the government has the right of initiative to create new ministries or assign them other tasks, however, I would like to make an important amendment. First, however, a few sentences on the very principle of creating new ministries. My experience or observations indicate that there are two schools for setting up state management centers. I'd say there's an Anglo-Saxon school, a synthetic school that's indistinguishable in detail. Unless occasionally departments, and a continental school, consisting in the specificization of practically every department. I'm not an expert, so I'm not gonna decide which one of these techniques is more effective. I believe it is the opinion of the government, which is the author of this solution. Nevertheless, I see a significant lack in this law, perhaps due to the rewrite of old laws. It is not that... At least since 2004 we have been a member of the European Union and this results in the obligation to participate managers or ministers in the work of the Union. Well, there's even a hot topic like energy. In these records, I do not see the obligation assigned to ministers to at least participate in these works, or even initiate processes, because we are the sixth European power. It will benefit the European Union and, above all, Poland. I can understand the argument that this is contained in the general clause, that since Poland is a member of the Union, it is as if this general clause follows the principle of participation. However, since some issues are quite detailed, there are no obstacles, High Izbo, to enter this task here, of course in all cases where we are interested in the work of the Union, but from this statement it appears that practically everywhere it is necessary to enter this. I have already mentioned energy, but we also need to mention computerization. These are processes that cannot be carried out in isolation against the Union and the pro-Union area. I therefore make, again hot, amendments aimed at ensuring, however, that there is a task, or even an obligation, of executives or ministries or offices, to participate in the work of the Union. This will extend our membership of the European Union. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u52	Thank you very much, Senator. This underneath is an amendment, too? [[Yes.]] Then sign this amendment. Okay? Now please take the floor of Senator Dowhan. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u53	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I won't exactly agree with the Minister's answer to my question. As for the fact that people with positions like the voivodship should be worthy, we have no doubt, but I lacked the word 'competent', and competence is also experience and work with the human team. And that was in the current version of the bill. It's hard today, when a voivode is an extension of the government, to invoke this position of people without experience, because when we face even a natural disaster... Therefore, in order not to lower the standards and maintain the wording of this sentence so far, I am amending the Act amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u54	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, Senator Jackowski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! First of all, I would like to express my congratulations on the vote of confidence in the government of Ms Beata Szydło yesterday. I am very glad that the government was so efficient. I would also like to express my satisfaction with this law, which regulates the way in which the state is managed. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation now brings together the maritime sector that exists, the fisheries that exist, but within the Ministry of Agriculture, and the inland waterway department that is being set up. In this way, all maritime affairs are in one hand, which facilitates the implementation of the tasks faced by the government and the public authorities. As far as the Ministry of Energy is concerned, it is a very good idea that everything, from energy sources to distribution to end-user, is now in one department. This will enable rational management of this very important sector. The crises that have so far emerged in mining, for example, were largely due to the fact that someone else was responsible for the fossils, someone else was responsible within the government for the mines, and someone else was responsible for other areas where the energy was operating. Right now, we have a chance to rationalize this procedure. First of all, it is important that Poland can be carried out through a very difficult moment of modernization of our energy in conditions, let us remind you of some restrictions imposed by the 3×20 package within the European Union, the climate and energy package and when in the coming years 1/3 of our energy blocks will have to be shut down and replaced by new ones. Powerful challenges are facing Poland. They are also facing the European Union because, as far as competitiveness is concerned in the global market, the very high energy price at the moment puts this competitiveness at risk. And that is why the European Union's contribution to the global product is unfortunately decreasing due to the fact that other countries outside Europe have much cheaper energy sources and opportunities for development. So that I would like to express my gratitude and satisfaction that this law is the first law that we are debating and adopting in the High House. I would also like to say that I support it in its entirety, along with the amendments that have been proposed in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grażyna Shark, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to table an amendment to the article. 8. I know that during the meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration by the Legislative Office, a proposal was made that the deadline for the law to enter into force should be at least twenty-day. As we understand that the bill must be implemented quickly, however, we propose to keep some minimum. Furthermore, in its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal stated that there should be a minimum period of 14 days for the implementation of the laws. Therefore, I propose that Art. 8 is replaced by the following: "The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Waldemar Sługocki. [[Mr. Marshal, the last amendment is in the Legislative Bureau. He'll be right back...]] Senator Jan Dobrzyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u59	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I just want to explain, because there's been a lot of talk in this room about staff resources and guarantees... This record is absolutely right. That had to be changed a long time ago. Let us remember that the voivode is the proxy of the prime minister, the government in the field and the prime minister must be free to select the voivods. I'm sure each of the prime ministers will want to select competent voivodships. Let us also remember that in the voivodship offices the general directors have highly important functions. They have direct supervision of the staff resource, they are responsible for it and are legally highly empowered. I will also remind you that the staff of the regional offices have the status of a civil servant, so this also gives the guarantee of proper functioning. And these concepts of the general director and the voivode should not be confused. Some amendments are simply not justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u60	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Wind, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to refer to the speech by Senator Rulewski, who has tabled appropriate amendments in addition to presenting his views. It is difficult... to add amendments to the duties of the Minister responsible for energy consulting or taking into account the work of the European Union. I would like to point out that it is difficult in the law on departments to write enumeratively all the tasks of the Minister. That's what specific comments are for. In addition, we know that the more detailed these records are, the more frequent the changes, because life cannot be described as 1/3 of the page, and more or less so is the volume of this text. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the current provision in the article. Article 7a (7) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2ppct 1: Energy policy of the country. It is difficult to conduct the country's energy policy without taking into account internal and external circumstances. The same is true of the IT department. Art. 12a paragraph. After all, 1 point 4 contains a provision concerning IT standards. We know that IT standards deal with issues far beyond our country. And that's where it comes in. Referring to my speech yesterday on the Senate resolution on events in Paris, I would like to say that we cannot limit ourselves only to the European Union. After all, there are many such actions that... all government, ministers or even local government activities that are being undertaken must take into account global, external and internal conditions. The internal ones, as we know, have many levels, and in the case of external ones... After all, it is not only the European Union, it is not only European, but also world conditions. We're in NATO, etc. That's why, especially in the field of computerization... these world standards in computerization are absolutely valid and must be taken into account. It therefore appears that it is completely unjustified to include the European Union in these entries on the sections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u62	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Silence, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna cut it short. I would have one comment on the wording, which, in my opinion, should be changed from the legal point of view. In section 13 of the committee's report, the draft resolution on the amendment of the law on administrative departments is the wording It is on page 4, i.e. the last, that the authorities that have assumed the tasks and competences under this Act fall into all rights... Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is the terminology of everyday language. It's supposed to be in the legal language. I'm still suggesting In the following manner: take over all rights and obligations of authorities that have lost their competence. And that's a formal conclusion. It's about keeping the language of the law intact. And the second point is to change the requirements for the voivodships. This requirement for a three-year period in the management of human teams has been abolished and replaced by a requirement which is perhaps even slightly broader. It is the formulation that guarantees proper performance of the duties of the voivods. I am aware that, when assessing this guarantee, there will undoubtedly be some internship and experience, perhaps also in the direction of human teams, although I do not think that this is necessary. I mean the requirement that existed before. We have excellent examples of history, when voivodeships or ministers became people who did not manage human teams, but were doing very well. I'm sorry to reach out to my own backyard, but for example, it was with lawyers. Well, a lawyer does not necessarily lead a human team, but because of discernment in law and on various other issues he is able to perform certain public functions. I'm sorry to point out an example from my backyard, but that's how it came to me right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u64	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, did you make any adjustments or did you just say... [[I will put this phrase in writing.]] Good. Because I don't have any corrections so far; she has to be in writing. Senator Waldemar Sługocki, please. [[Voice from the room: Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka asked for the floor.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to refer to my question and make an amendment to the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government and some other laws. As suggested earlier, given that regional development is concerned with spatial planning issues, but also with strategic planning issues, it is extremely important that, alongside planning at national level, there should be threads on basic self-governments and therefore at local level. We must be aware, Ladies and gentlemen, that it is the minister responsible for regional development who is responsible for creating socio-economic development, that the minister responsible for regional development prepares documents with strategic characteristics and the concept of spatial development of the country, documents which are extremely important for the negotiation of a portfolio of European intervention within the framework of the European Union's cohesion policy. It was the basis of the National Development Plan for the years 2004 to 2006, the National Strategic Reference Framework for the years 2007 to 2013 or, finally, the Partnership Agreement for the years 2014 to 2020. It is these documents that underpin the preparation of national and regional operational programmes. It is on the basis of them that we carry out a task worth EUR 82.5 billion in this perspective. If we want to prepare for this task properly and address European aid so as to maximise the socio-economic potential of the state's administrative borders, but using all the local government units and the Polish regional governments, and regional governments, but above all the local government, we need to make such a change. Therefore, my heartfelt request to Minister Kowalczyk to consider this amendment very seriously. I'd like that very much, Minister. Not only on its behalf, on behalf of the club, Senators of the Civic Platform, but also on behalf of the local communities of the Polish state For this amendment to be included in the contested bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u66	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking guns here. In the Law on amending the Law on Government Administrations to the Department of Energy, I would like to add an amendment: in Article. 1 in point 4, in Article. 7a in paragraph 7a. 2 in point 2, the words "renewable energy sources' shall be inserted after the words "development and use'. What is it? Namely, the point is that the energy department has not identified those energy sources from which we can also draw... It is assumed that these are energy raw materials, i.e. coal, brown coal, oil, gas, etc., and we forget about renewable energy sources. I would therefore like to add this to this section and make such an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Piotr Zientarski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wasn't going to speak because there's already an amendment. As for the voivodships, regarding the requirement of having three years of experience in the management of human teams, but I was provoked by the statement of my esteemed colleague, patron Zbigniew Cichonia, who pointed out that he as a lawyer I'm a lawyer myself, we're from the same yearbook, and we have the same barrister's internship. It would not meet the requirements. No, it's not. He would've met... [[He wouldn't.]] He would because he's president of the association. Excuse me. [[No, it's definitely...]] I'm sorry, but if we're talking... [[But his powers aren't worse...]] [[And he's a patron...]] But during the discussion... This isn't about us. This is about competence and minimal experience, because after all... [[You've got it.]] I have, because, as a lawyer, I've been performing various social functions, associated with my activities... [[Yeah, you do social functions as a lawyer, and you're in charge...]] ...and self-government, and cultural. Management is the management of the human team, that's pretty obvious. It was said that it was limited to scientists. Excuse me, a scientist who meets... [[It doesn't.]] A scientist with a certain record is at least the head of the plant, the head of the cathedral, the person who runs the human team. [[No, it's definitely...]] [[But he's not president either, and he's great, too.]] [[Senator Silence is also a patron.]] No. There's been some discussion that we're putting up a dam that can't be a scientist, can't be a lawyer, so I'm going over these arguments. As far as professionals are concerned, they should, of course, be verified as part of their public activities. I think that's what this is all about, too. Of course, trust, of course the guarantee, of course competence and minimal experience in managing human teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Grabowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to add my vote to the discussion, in fact I would like to add a few words to what you previously signaled to Senator Wind regarding the amendments tabled by Senator Rulewski. As regards the lack of provisions on cooperation with the European Union in the draft, such provisions are not only in the Article quoted by Senator Wind. Article 7a (7) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 2, but also in point 1. This refers to the state's energy policy and its contribution to shaping the European Union's energy policy. This is also the case in point 5, which refers to the initiation, coordination and supervision of international cooperation in the field of energy, energy raw materials and fuels and participation in the work of European Union bodies. Therefore, I think that the amendments made by Senator Rulewski are not necessary, so to speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Waldemar Slugocki and Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. [[And Mr. Senator Zbigniew Silence.]] And Mr. Senator Zbigniew Silence. Yes, Mr. Zbigniew Silence, right. Thank you. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the legislative proposals put forward or not? Minister? At the committee meeting? At the committee meeting. Thank you. As proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the meeting... No, not at the end of the Senate meeting, but after the break. It didn't say right.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u73	Messages. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and some other laws will take place fifteen minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the election of the deputy chairman of the committee will take place immediately after the adjournment in room 182 has been announced. The meeting of the National Defence Committee will be held in room 179 immediately after the adjournment is announced. The agenda provides for the election of the Deputy Chairman of the Committee on National Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u74	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 1 p.m. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will take place at 1 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 59 to 13 minutes 00]] I'm reopening the session. I'm extending the recess until 2:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 00 to 14 minutes 02]] I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 15 Z. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Arkadiusz Grabowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Invited guests! During the work, the committee examined twenty-four amendments made to the draft law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. Ten of these twenty-four amendments were tabled during this meeting. Two amendments during the work of the committee were withdrawn by the applicants. Two amendments were not voted on, as they became irrelevant in the adoption of other amendments. The Commission recommends adopting 15 amendments and rejecting four amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u76	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Senator Jan Rulewski, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Grażyna Sztark, Senator Zbigniew Cichoń, Senator Waldemar Sługock and Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka submitted their conclusions during the discussion. I would remind you that the following applicants withdrew their conclusions: Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Amendment 2 in print 15 Z, and Senator Jan Rulewski, Amendment 3 in print 15 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1. The adoption of this amendment excludes voting on Amendments 2 and 3 but they have been withdrawn anyway. Amendment 1 amends the scope of the Energy Department. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 88 senators voted, 86 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] The amendment was accepted. Amendments 4, 11 and 12 will be voted on together. These amendments in the economics, deposit economy, excavation and IT departments add to the scope of the activities of the competent minister to the shaping of the policy of the European Union in the field covered by the action. Who's... [[Voice from the room: Action?]] The departments... To the extent covered by the divisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 89 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] Amendments 4, 11 and 12 were accepted. Amendment 5 transfers local spatial planning to the regional development department. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 31 votes against, 58 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] Amendment 5 was rejected. Amendment 6 eliminates the non-normative part of the rule. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 89 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 6 was accepted. Amendments 7 and 9 should be voted on together. They shall determine the scope of the divisions with regard to the construction and maintenance of inland waterways. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 Senators voted 90 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] Amendments 7 and 9 were accepted. Amendment 8 clarifies the scope of the IWT section by including international cooperation in the system of international waterways. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 Senators voted 91 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] The amendment was accepted. Amendment 10 extends the scope of the kosalin-based economy to supervise the operators operating the kosalin. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 Senators voted 90 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 10 was accepted. Amendment 13 indicates that the communication section covers postal services rather than postal services. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted against, 4 against, 67 against, 21 abstentions. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 13 was rejected. Amendment 14 restores geology as part of the environmental section. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 Senators voted 91 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 14 was accepted. Amendment 15 deletes the provision transferring the tasks of the Minister of Treasury to the Minister of Energy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 80 votes against, 11 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 15 was accepted. Amendment 16 amends the name of the representative of the government supervising transmission system operators. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 90 Senators voted, 90 votes against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 16 was accepted. Amendment 17 sets out the procedure for the appointment of a government representative for strategic energy infrastructure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 Senators voted 91 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 17 was accepted. Amendment 18 provides the Energy Minister with ownership oversight of the Silesia Finance Society. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 91 Senators voted, 89 votes against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 18 was accepted. Amendment 19 maintains the competence of the Minister responsible for physical culture in the field of the sailing exam and correctly transfers the competence of the Minister responsible for inland waterway transport. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 Senators voted 90 and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 19 was accepted. Amendment 20 restores the requirement for a three-year period of managerial work for a candidate for a voivodeship. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 31 votes against, 59 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 20 was rejected. Amendment 21 adds transitional and adapting provisions to the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 92 Senators voted 91 and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 21 was accepted. Amendment 23 introduces one-day... yes, one-day vacathio legis. That's what it says. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please vote. I see the senators are still voting. Please report the results. 92 senators voted against, 64 votes against, 25 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 23 was accepted. Now the whole thing, ladies and gentlemen. We proceed to the vote on the resolution... [[Voice from the room: An amendment...]] No, we no longer vote on Amendment 24 because Amendment 23. Yes? We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? Please report the results. 92 senators voted, 65 votes against, 26 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. High Izbo, there are messages. You're welcome, sir. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u77	The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the election of the deputy chairman of the committee will take place today 15 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 217. [[Voices from the hall: It was, it already took place.]] It happened, which means this message is out of date.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u78	There's no more messages. [[There isn't.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a recess until 6:00 p.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 14 to 18 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u79	I'm reopening the session. High Izbo, extend the recess until 8:00 p.m. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u80	Communication: The Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions will examine the Act amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act at 18.15 in room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u81	Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 00 to 19 minutes 54]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u82	Hello, everyone. I'm reopening the session. In view of the ongoing committee meeting, I shall extend the period until 9 p.m. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 54 to 20 minutes 59]] I'm reopening the session. I'm extending the recess until 9:30. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 59 to 21 minutes 29]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u83	Good evening. I'm reopening the session. And I'm extending the recess until 10:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 29 to 22 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. Senators of the secretary's office, please take your seats at the president's table. I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act, Senate prints No 18 and 18 A and consider it as point five. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. [[I have a formal question.]] There you go, Mr Klich... Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u84	Are there prints? [[Voices from the room: There are prints! Yeah, yeah.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u85	Yeah, there's prints. [[Voice from the room: Where?]] Mr Klich... Mr Klich Excuse me. [[And your opinion? Where's the opinion?]] [[The Legal Bureau's opinion...]] [[Voice from the room: Already signed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Platform Parliamentary Club and in conjunction with Article. 48 (1) (a) 2 point 8 of our Rules of Procedure requests that this draft law be not placed on the agenda. I'll give you a brief explanation. This is one of the most serious issues that the Senate will probably be dealing with during this term of office, and as an Chamber which is considered to be a House of reflection, we should devote a lot of time to this matter. I'm sure we shouldn't act ad hoc. We believe that such action is contrary to the logic and practice of this House so far. I therefore reiterate my request not to introduce this project to the proceedings of the High House. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: You had...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. [[What have you guys been doing for eight years?]] We are voting on my proposal. Who's in favour? [[Voices from the hall: For what?]] [[In addition.]] In favour of the proposal I have put forward, which is to supplement the agenda. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[I've been waiting for this moment...]] Please state the results of the vote. 60 senators voted in favour, 24 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 19]] The proposal has been accepted. High Senate, I also propose that the agenda be supplemented in the item: changes in the membership of the Senate committees For the examination of printing No 17. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 18 and the committee's report in print No 18 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Bohdan Paszkowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u88	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll try to do my part as efficiently as I can, although I'm still here... I'm fresh out of committee. In view of the above, I inform you that the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions discussed today at the joint meeting the law on amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act. We have adopted a resolution to adopt this law without amendment. There were, of course, minority proposals, one was a motion to reject the law, it was a further proposal, and the other was a proposal for amendments of six. As minority representatives are about to speak on this issue, I will not speak on this subject again, except that I may refer to this by telling what was happening at the committee meeting. In our meeting he participated, at least in the preliminary part, in any case he presented to us the bill which was adopted by the Sejm, a representative of the applicants, Mr Stanisław Piotrowicz, who had previously been a senator and chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions. He presented to us the objectives which he wanted to achieve by means of this law, in his explanatory statement, he stressed that constitutional allegations were being made against the Constitutional Tribunal Act adopted on 25 June 2015. This was reflected in the proposal submitted to the Constitutional Court in this regard. After the beginning of the term of office of the newly elected Sejm, a draft law was also submitted, which assumed to eliminate these elements of unconstitutionality. The reasons for this act have been presented. Maybe later I'll tell you what the bill contains, but right now I'm gonna say yes. During the committee meeting, some of the colleagues from the committee, and there were also representatives from other committees at our meeting, raised the issue that the law was passed in the Sejm today and today we began to proceed with this law in the committees. There have been allegations of this nature that there is no opinion that e.g. has not been invited and does not participate in the work of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal or any person authorised by him. There were also such themes that there was no wider consultation in this area, that we are in this case not consulting, there were the names of the various parties, the National Judicial Council and others, that is to say. As regards the mode of implementation of the Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure were indicated, Art. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Two, that's something to say here, too. The principle is that the senate printing appears at least one day before the committee meeting, but there are situations where it can be waived and the rules of procedure provide for it. Then a discussion took place. We have, of course, listened to the Senator's speech, and now to Mr Peterowicz, who presented us with the bill, its assumptions and justification. We have heard the opinion of a representative of the Legislative Bureau. In its opinion, it also pointed out some doubts about this law, which, at least in part, or in full, proposed to dispel possible amendments. Then there was an open discussion. I would also like to say, since I am presenting our guests' speeches, that there was also a speech by a representative of the Helsinki Foundation, who also had some reservations about the bill. They were referring. I can quote that. On issues related to the revision of the article. 139. It refers to the provision that, in the case of judges of the Court whose term of office expires in 2015, the time limit for the submission of the application in question, i.e. the application for the selection of candidates to the Court, shall be 7 days after the entry into force of this provision. Well, here it was pointed out that this difficulty was that the Sejm of the previous term of office had made a choice in this regard. The opinion also raised issues related to the timing of the vows, which is introduced in that law. Then there were the senators' statements. They can be summed up so that the arguments raised by them were those which were raised earlier, namely concerning... [[Joy in the Chamber]] I am presenting what the proceedings were like, because this is the way to report in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. It was raised that these were non-constitutional solutions. And that's what our discussion focused on. There have been, as I said, amendments made. They were rejected. Previously, a request was also rejected to reject the law. Now maybe I'll say a few words about the bill, because we need to say a few words about it. The Act provides for amendments to the provision of Article. The 12th Constitutional Court Act. The Act currently in force provides that the President of the Court shall appoint the President of the Republic of Poland from among the 2 candidates submitted by the General Assembly. Here is the proposal that the President of the Court appoints the President from at least three candidates submitted by the General Assembly for a period of 3 years and that the President of the Court may be appointed twice. So here the first change is that at least three candidates are presented by the General Assembly to the President. The second change is that there is a specified term of office and here is a proposal of 3 years. At the moment, the term of office is not governed by the law adopted in June of this year. It can be determined that since a member of the Court can only be elected once per nine years' term of office, the President is, as if, until he is a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. In theory, it may be a maximum of nine years, but this period may be reduced depending on the moment at which he was elected and how his term of office runs. [[But like a bill...]] I don't go into that kind of detail. Next line. Here you shorten your term of office and there's a rule that you can be called twice. So the maximum time is going to be... [[Voice from the hall: Eighteen?]] ...up to six years. [[Voice from the room: Six?]] Six, because two terms can be... The next issue is a change in the time limit for the selection of candidates in the event of the vacancy of the President. Under the current law, this deadline is 30 days. It is the General Assembly that chooses these candidates. The novel adopted by the Sejm proposes that this deadline be reduced to 21 days. The next question concerns the qualifications that the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal should have. Change in the bill passed... In the current law, the provision in this regard states that these qualifications are to correspond to the qualifications of a person who may take the position of Supreme Court Judge. The amendment proposes that these qualifications should be at the level of the qualification of the person who may take the position of the Supreme Court or the Supreme Administrative Court. May I remind you that this is a return to the provisions of the law in force until the 30th... As far as I remember, this law, which was passed in June, entered into force probably on 30 August this year. And the one that was in force... This version was in the Act of 1 August 1997 and was in force until the entry into force of the Act of June 2015. The next amendment concerns Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. It is the date on which a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal is to be submitted to the Sejm. It is proposed that the application for a candidate for a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal shall be submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm 30 days before the expiry of the term of office of the Judge of the Court. In the Act which is currently in force and which, as I recall, was adopted on 25 June 2015, this deadline is 3 months. The argument was that it is a return to what is written, until now, in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The next amendment concerns Article. 21 and this article constitutes a vow which is made by the person who has been elected by the Sejm as judge. I'll tell you what it's like right now. In accordance with the current law, such a person shall take an oath to the President. The content of this vow is the same as I understand it. And what is the added value of this provision in the new law? That is, there is a time limit within which this vow should be made, while at present there is no time limit in the Act. The date specified in this new law, the one we are considering today, is 30 days from the date of selection. In addition, this article adds the paragraph. 1a: The oath begins the term of office of the Judge of the Court. There's been a clarification since this term runs. The rest of the rule doesn't change. Since, as I said, there was a discussion in the committee around this vow, I would say in advance that we are not changing the article that is currently in force, according to which the refusal to take the vow is equivalent to the resignation of the judge of the Court. Just so we're clear, in this room, so in the case of senators, taking a vow is an essential element to start doing your job. There was a big discussion around it, when the term of office, etc., etc., etc. This is an element of the current law and this does not change in the law that we are considering. This refusal to take a vow is... Vowing is a necessary condition to carry out duties. Ladies and gentlemen, the law also refers to Article. Article 136 and Article 136 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 137. These are the transitional provisions that the State, or at least all those who followed the debate that followed the previous act in June... We, too, as senators of the previous term, participated in this part. There were very big doubts here. Sometimes the argument was raised that it is essentially a substance or one of the main motives of the law, which was adopted in June this year, the Constitutional Court Act. This was the question of the choice of judges for the vacating positions that will appear during the previous Sejm's term of office. These provisions also allowed the choice of judges whose term of office will expire in December of this year. They gave the Sejm the last term of office the opportunity to settle this matter, and it was done because the Sejm chose these judges. There is a proposal in the Seym Act to repeal them. The following Article is inserted: 137a, as follows: in the case of judges of the Court whose term of office expires in 2015, the time limit for lodging the application referred to in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from commitments remaining to be settled from previous financial years. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The request for a person to be appointed to the Constitutional Tribunal shall be 7 days from the date of entry into force of this provision. There's an art. 2 but this is an art. 2 of the Seym Act, not of the provision I had previously referred to, that the term of office of the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal expires 3 months after the date of entry into force of the Act. And there's an art proposal. 3 that the Act enters into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. That's the bill. I think he's gonna be here... I'm just gonna cut my speech short because I'm sure my colleagues from the minority committee are gonna be reporting right here and there's probably gonna be questions... [[The voice from the room: Or they will not be...]] Or they won't, it's up to you. Therefore, I will merely repeat the proposal which the joint committees are proposing, namely to adopt this law without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Thank you, Mr President.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present the proposals of the minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present and illustrate the conclusions of the minority. The minority proposal, which goes further, is a motion to reject the law. In turn, if the High Chamber does not agree with it, the minority asks for the following amendments to the Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 1, in paragraph 1. The first sentence would receive this sound. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal shall appoint the President of the Republic of Poland for a term of three years from the two candidates presented by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 in point 3, paragraph 1. 2 would be replaced by the following. The application for a candidate for a judge of the Court shall be submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm no later than 30 days before the end of the term of office of the Judge of the Court of Justice. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 4 is deleted. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Point 5 of point 1 is replaced by the following: Article 1 is deleted. 136. Art. 2 would have received this sound. The terms of office of the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal appointed before the entry into force of the Act shall end at the end of the period laid down in the provisions in force prior to the date of entry into force of the Act. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 the words '14 days'are replaced by '30 days'. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the main reason why we make such proposals is, first of all, the short time we had to discuss this law, which is, so to speak, in the heart of the constitutional order and on which the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights reported, despite a very short time of trial, a number of doubts. The fundamental doubt raised by the Helsinki Foundation is the problem of shortening the term of office of the current Constitutional Tribunal of the President and Vice-Presidents. Not only in the Foundation's opinion, but also in our Legislative Office, this solution is incompatible with the Constitution. Next, the Legislative Office and the Helsinki Foundation dealt with the article on the swearing in of newly elected candidates, newly elected judges of the Court, and criticised this record. I would like to read the text of this article so far. Art. 21: The person elected as Judge of the Court shall take the following oath before the President of the Republic of Poland... This is not the most important, I will not quote this content. But there's also paragraph 2: "The refusal to take a vow is equivalent to the resignation of the judge of the Court." The authors of the amendment of this law claimed that the wording of this article should be amended in this way: The person elected as judge of the Court shall, within 30 days of the date of election, take the following oath... The arguments concerning the shortening of the term of office and the importance of this oath were such that such a situation could arise. It is written about by the Helsinki Foundation, in which we will not know whether there is no oath, which is not due to refusal, but that the oath did not take place within 30 days... At this moment we have doubts raised by the party who is bringing this law, by Members, that the lack of swearing in causes that the newly elected judges of the Court must be sworn in to be allowed to perform their duties. Well, if we keep the record of the article. 21 that refusing to take a vow is equivalent to relinquishing the position of the judge of the Court, then the whole provision becomes illogical, because if a sine qua non condition to be permitted is a vow, then I apologize very much What happens until the vows have been made? In such a case, if this vow is to start a new term Because such a provision is proposed that we are only talking about a new term of office from the moment we are sworn in and not from the moment the Sejm chooses Then why leave this record? In the opinion of the Foundation, the assessment of minority applicants would lead to illogicality and exclusion of these two provisions. Then I return to the arguments that came during the meeting from both the Foundation and the Legislative Office. In the case of judges of the Court whose term of office expires in 2015, the time limit for lodging the application referred to in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, shall be 7 days from the date of entry into force of this provision. In his speech, the Helsinki Foundation claims: "It is difficult to clearly determine what effect such a provision will have on the status of judges already elected by the Sejm of the previous term of office, but not yet sworn in by the President of the Republic of Poland. In our foundation However, the assessment is not admissible for an interpretation which would assume that the standard repeals or cancels the choice made by the Sejm of the previous term of office, which would enable the Sejm of the current term of office to re-elect the other judges of the Court. After all, the bill does not make such a repeal of expressis verbis at any point, and it is difficult to presume such a far-reaching effect. Please, the High House, this may happen if such an interpretation is true, that we will be faced with the election of new judges of the Court, while in the overwhelming, properly consistent interpretation of constitutionalists, the choice made in the previous term of office is effective. Since the Constitution assumes that the number of judges of the Court of Justice is 15, there could be a violation of the Constitution, because there would be 20 judges of the Court. Come on. The Constitution does not confer on the legislator the power to annul the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by the Sejm of the previous term of office. Deviation from this principle once could lead in the future to the difficult to predict effects of the • Parliament of each subsequent term of office could, by law, invalidate the choice made by its predecessors. This does not, of course, mean that the election of all 5 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal by the Sejm of the previous term of office was fully in line with the standards of democracy. As you can see, the Helsinki Foundation has consistently criticised What was raised by me and by Senator Paszkowski... She also had doubts in her previous term of office and claimed that the Act, which was passed by the Sejm in August 2015... [[Voice from the room: It came into force...]] She's come into force. I'm so sorry. ... It was adopted in the last term of office and did not fully meet the standards required for such resolutions. But, as was emphasized many times during our almost three-hour meeting... It was stressed that since this amendment from the previous term of office was addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal and that during the week a meeting and a hearing on the constitutionality of those records were to take place, any movement should be delayed until the Constitutional Tribunal has spoken on constitutionality or not on the previous amendment. Similarly, according to the Helsinki Foundation, as well as our Legislative Office, the proposed article also raises doubts. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act which provides that the person elected as Judge of the Court shall take a vow to the President of the Republic of Poland within 30 days of the date of the election. At the same time, the amendment clarifies that it is the taking of the oath that begins the term of office of the judge of the Court. There may be doubts as to the consequences of not taking a vow within a given thirty-day period. This view of the Helsinki Foundation was broadly consistent with the doubts raised by the minority senators during the committee meeting, as well as with the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. Now, back to the bill, I'm going to say that some of the senators who were in the minority at the committee meeting... The far-reaching doubts shared by some colleagues in Law and Justice raised the wording of the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 to be read: the application for a candidate for a judge of the Court shall be submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm 30 days before the end of his term of office. Of course, this is a very minor problem, although this problem in the legislative technique, according to lawyers, is that if it were to be interpreted literally, it would seem that there is only one day, the one that would be 30 days before such a proposal can be made. Thus, the project, partly supported by colleagues from Law and Justice, so that it is up to 30 days, to make it clear that at the latest it is possible to submit this proposal, say, 31 days or 30 days before. Why is this clarification important in our view? Well, and this also sounded in the speeches of the Helsinki Foundation, this record, which was proposed by the Civic Platform and which was a transitional record in the previous amendment, caused a very big problem for the Helsinki Foundation to monitor the quality of the proposed candidates. This, as I can guess, may also be a problem for service representatives who also verify such candidates. Well, the previous record, which talked about three months, simply gave more opportunity to check the candidates. As I said, the proposal that was pushed through in the previous term of office, concerning this transitional provision and 30 days, was only one-off. This recipe is already dead. During that debate, she also aroused great controversy. Many colleagues in law and justice have argued that this is a very bad solution. I would like to say that the solution that has now been proposed is also wrong, because it is exactly the same as proposed by the Civic Platform a few months ago. As for the picture of the situation of a group of senators who applied for a minority... More or less, this is the picture of the situation that I was trying to convey as faithfully as possible. I will make one more amendment to delete in Article. Point 1, point 6, because we did not notice in the committee's work that the logical consequence of these changes should be the deletion of point 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u92	Senator Dobrzyński. I have a question for you: did the Senate of the previous term, the 8th term, share the reservations of the Helsinki Foundation? If not, why? And how did the senators vote today to apply for minorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u93	Thank you so much for that question. First of all, Mr. Senator, I would like to say that your question reminded me of a problem I hadn't told you before. It took nearly 6 months to process the previous law and the Seym and the Senate. The Helsinki Foundation and all possible parties to the social dialogue had a very long time to formulate their comments. The Helsinki Foundation, as I said earlier, had far-reaching reservations about that article. I don't remember exactly... I can only say for myself. In my opinion, I behaved like a lawyer and my fellow lawyer from Law and Justice today, which is what I abstained from voting on. And the Senate as a whole As the senator has guessed, because it has been passed, he has taken the view that this is the way to vote. I would just like to point out that, as far as the bill is concerned, it was a small passage, and as far as the bill is concerned, there were many, many more charges. If the senator had compared the opinions of the Legislative Bureau, which had much more time, therefore could have picked up a lot more problems, you would have seen that then the reservations concerned one of the many articles and regulations, and here a lot more.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u95	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Paszkowski... [[Voice from the room: Yes...]] Yes. You gave the senator very extensive information about the proceedings of the committee, and you also reported on the questions that were raised during this meeting. I would like to know the answers that have been given to some of these questions. If you would like to address, first of all, the question of why there was no one at the committee meeting who would represent the Constitutional Tribunal... Well, it wasn't. not only the representative of the interested party, but also the guarantor of the stability of the legal system in Poland. Secondly: why we have not received any legal opinions, although in previous terms to Sorry for defining less significant laws very often, did we usually receive a whole package of legal opinions? Finally, thirdly: what was the answer to the reservations, doubts and allegations made by the representative of the Legislative Office, whose statement is in the printout? I would like to ask you to give us the answers to these three questions, if they were given at all during the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u96	Thank you. Mr. Senator Paszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u97	Dear Senate! Why wasn't the President of the Constitutional Tribunal? We as president did not invite Mr President, but I know from Mr Marshal And I just found out because I wasn't aware of it. Mr. Marshal invited the President, I understand, of the President of the Court. Maybe the marshal would give more information here, I don't know in what formula, because we're here at the committee meeting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If I was aware of that, I'd probably inform the members of the committee. I wasn't aware that Mr. Marshal invited your president. As far as opinions are concerned, here's the thing. Well, the Legal Bureau's opinion was in the form of... Well, it was quoted to us orally. It is probably already available in writing, and I have this opinion at my request. What was the reaction to these matters? It was so... Actually, there was a discussion. A legal opinion was presented together with proposals for amendments to the Bureau And then there was a discussion. The senators either referred to this legal opinion, which was realized, for example, in the form quoted here by Senator Pociej, through the request of minorities, or in their statements, for example... If I remember correctly, Professor Sewerinski, I'm going to quote this... But I wouldn't want to... Of course, I am speaking in some simplification, because the statement was broader, but Senator Severinski referred to it as some reflections on what would be good to change in this law. I think the point was, Senator Chairman, that, according to Senator Sewerinski, this case was... And I'm going to visualize it this way, and I'm going to put it in a context that makes it more unambiguous. Namely, in this opinion there is such an element that the Sejm elects the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, and the best solution would be that the oath be taken by the Sejm, not as it was in the 1997 Act, as it is in the 2015 Act and as it is, because it does not change in this Act which the Sejm has passed, and which today we consider that this promise is being taken away by the President. To illustrate this situation, I say that there were also such arguments. It wasn't... Because it was a senator's discussion, someone was referring to these things, someone wasn't referring to... I referred to it in such a way that I said that, for example, such postulates are postulates of de lege ferenda. In my view, they go beyond what we are to do as the Senate, that is, to consider this law which the Sejm has adopted. But, as I said, colleagues, on the basis of this opinion, have formulated minority proposals, because it can be said that with slight modifications, what the legislator has proposed is reflected in minority proposals. If I've missed any of these issues, remind me. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Have I answered fully?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u98	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u99	Yet my second question, concerning the lack of external legal opinions, especially when Poland is having such a serious discussion on this subject and the former Presidents of the Constitutional Tribunal have expressed their opinion quite clearly critical of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u100	I mean, here's what I'm gonna say. A debate has been accompanied by this law since the beginning of its work in the Sejm. It also has to do with this constitutional complaint which was filed on this bill. We, of course, have adopted, as chairman of these committees, a certain mode of action regarding the process of this law. If we so widely consulted these opinions, of course this mode would be implemented on other dates. So that, of course, must be taken into account. And there's one more thing. Namely, this is what happened in this Senate. Let's be honest with each other. That it was different with these opinions. The committees sometimes made their decisions without opinions. Opinions appeared, if any, before the Senate meetings. It was different. This is probably not a practice to be disseminated, but it has happened. This must also be highlighted and I will draw attention to it. And also, I'm going to talk about one more circumstance. I know that this law is of a grand nature in the sense of Let's call it that. It's her matter. But what's to hide here, ladies and gentlemen, is the bill is simple in such a way... [[What do you mean it's simple?]] ...that he's taking his vows here, and there he's taking his vows, there 2, here 3... [[Voice from the room: And it's understandable.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] All the senators who participated in the discussion understood. You can think about the consequences of certain solutions, etc. And the importance of the matter itself. But this law can be read with understanding... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] ...in a rather short time.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u101	Thank you very much. Senator Fedorovich. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will, of course, have questions for the rapporteur. I'm gonna try to act like a man who's been voted out for the second time and not a lawyer. I know your resume, and it's a great professional resume, a judge. That'll be one question... [[I just finished the app.]] Thank you very much... [[And I passed the test...]] How would you feel if you heard from the representative of the party who voted in favour of this bill... Yesterday on TV he said that all the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are corrupt people who only implement the program... That's the first question. Second question. In the history of Polish parliamentarianism since... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Let me finish, if you don't mind. May I finish, Mr. Marshal? [[You're welcome.]] In the history of Polish parliamentarianism since 1989, whose highest achievement, which is possible, is the Constitutional Tribunal, has there been a situation that in matters of such an important institution of the state, which is limited by the articles of the Constitution, there has been a procedure for amendments to the Act in such a short time? And one last question, concrete. I've been in Parliament for ten years, and it has not happened to me yet that an applicant's representative is absent from questioning on such an important matter. In my opinion, it's reprehensible, but if you don't confirm what I'm saying, I'll understand. I'd like to know the reasons... Isn't that disrespectful of the Senate of the Republic of Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u103	Thank you very much. Maybe I'll start with that last question and answer it with full responsibility. Mr. Senator, you were an envoy. I am the third term in the Senate, and I will admit that on the fingers of one hand I could count examples when the representatives of the Sejm presented parliamentary projects at the Senate meetings. That's the situation. I'm not saying that... there were boastful exceptions, but the rule was more like that. I think so, and I think I'm right. I didn't run the statistics, but, as I remember, we've had a number of times when a Member didn't represent... Former Minister who referred to the case It's either positive or negative. And sometimes he said it was a parliamentary project, and so on. That's how my memory goes, so it's... It's one thing. Second thing. You asked me if there were laws that were so procedated. I remember, for example, the state's gambling bill was passed in the Seym... [[Excuse me, if you don't mind, I only asked about the bill of this measure.]] [[Voice from the room: This goes beyond...]] This measure... Well, it's hard here... I'm talking about law enforcement in general. This measure... I don't know what measure. This is the Constitutional Authority Act, that's true, but... [[Excuse me, but if... if I may, by breaking the rules, because the marshal didn't give me the floor, I'll try...]] [[Mr. Senator, let the senator answer that question.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, that... the Senate convention is that someone is asking and someone is answering, and we're not having a discussion. [[Yes, sir.]] [[Excuse me.]] So do I. I mentioned here, for example, an example of a gambling bill. We remember the conditions under which she was... As I remember, the Sejm approved it and almost immediately a committee meeting was called, etc. It was a very extensive law and I was simply physically unable to read it. I'm not talking about understanding... And there's been a lot of that. If we're gonna account for each other now, then... There's been a situation that hasn't been a bill yet, and it's already... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...I was being probed to see if I could be at the committee meeting. By the way... I don't know, maybe it's real information or maybe it's not, but... the committee meeting was called, and when I asked if there was a document, I'm talking about holding a referendum by President Komorowski... [[Voice from the room: There isn't one!]] There was no document, and the committee meeting had already been convened. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] The president's motion. So that we experienced different situations in the history of our parliamentarianism. I've been limiting myself to my memory, and I've been remembering my parliamentary actions since 2007, because that's when I started... I'll admit that in many cases... I've had experience in self-government, I've been the secretary of the city, big, voivodship, and I'm going to say that when I came to the Senate, it's a rule of procedure... They would not be accepted at municipal council meetings. [[Applause]] That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please... [[Voice from the room: But one more thing...]] [[Oh, and that question...]] [[Voice from the room: Sit down.]] [[No, no, I'd like to answer that.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[If you don't mind, I'm asking you to remind the senator because...]] [[I'll let you remind me if you'll allow me.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u105	You didn't answer my previous question, I asked about the state's constitutional institution, not the gambling bill. But okay. And my question, which I remind you of, is this. The representative of the party, who, together with the PIS, with the Law and Justice voted on this bill, of course after the opposition came out, said on TV yesterday that the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal were all corrupt and supporting the power. What is your attitude towards this as a senator and not as rapporteur for the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u106	Sure. I don't want that statement... [[I'd like to speak on the matter of order.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u107	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u108	This question goes beyond the report. [[Sure, but I...]] [[Then I withdraw the question. Excuse me.]] [[And I'd be happy to answer that question.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u109	Good. You're welcome, Senator. Then we move on to more questions. [[Do you want me to answer that question?]] Yes, please, if you'd like. [[Voice from the room:...you can't...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u110	If I may, briefly... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't do that, you can't do that.]] Okay, I'm not gonna answer that. If you're a marshal stealing... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u111	Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh!]] Mr. Marshal... [[I can ask now, right?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u112	I'm not going to argue with the senator on what happened... [[Of course, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry...]] ...but it wasn't really like that. [[...is my subjective assessment. We're going to be able to visualize it so that we can, by way of concrete examples...]] I get it. I get it. We have a concrete example here. Yes? [[Yes.]] Therefore, I would like to ask the question: is it true that the Sejm concluded its proceedings on this bill at 17:15, and the Senate committee, the Senate, began its proceedings at 6:15 p.m.? Or am I wrong, it wasn't an hour... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...maybe it was two hours? [[Voice from the room: Saving work time.]] Maybe it was 1.5 hours or 1 hour 15 minutes? I'd like to know and be clear here. And that's one thing about proceding. [[Voice from the room: Is that bad or good?]] The second question concerns the substance. The application for a candidate for a Judge of the Court shall be submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm 30 days before the end of the term of office of the Judge of the Court. That's the general rule. And in the article. 137a is: in the case of judges of the Court whose term of office expires in 2015, the time limit for lodging the application in question, etc., shall be 7 days. I would like to ask the senator to explain why the general rule is 30 days, and in this particular case it has been reduced to 7 days.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u113	Sure. With regard to these hours, Mr. Marshal, I could act like a classic rapporteur referring to the rules of procedure and say that this was not the subject of the committee's work, but... of course, the charges regarding the fact that quickly and so on, appeared in the context of the discussion, maybe not specifically in an hourly context, but... I did not check... In fact, as far as I know, because I was watching the Sejm's proceedings, it appears that the voting block began at 4:30 p.m. It was already another bill, because it wasn't the first one that was processed, if I remember correctly. I'm not here to argue about the hours, maybe the marshal is right, maybe not. But I'd like to point out It will probably be confirmed by the members of the Legislative Commission, and I believe that the professor as head of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions will also confirm this. That I, as chairman, have warned since yesterday, or perhaps earlier, that we, when the Sejm has passed this law, will proceed over it. So that I think it was no surprise to the committee members that this bill might be the subject of our committee work at this meeting. That's my answer to that. In addition, Mr. Marshal sent this bill to the committee and it was our duty to consider it. As far as deadlines are concerned, I have already mentioned this at the outset, but I would like to emphasise this further. Here's the situation right now. This is even reflected in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law that Article is being repealed. 136, which referred to this shortened deadline and as regards Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, there is a shorter time limit because it is proposed to agree the content of the provision with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I'll explain. I have here, and so do you, the unified text of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, here is our senate one we use. Let's see the article... wait a minute. There is a provision concerning the selection of judges of the Court, which says what the Law adopted by the Sejm at the moment proposes: 30 days. That's how it's written here. I want to highlight one thing. Although the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are a resolution, and here we have a law, but the way in which laws are passed determines the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. It can be said that as regards the procedure for adopting both of these documents, it is essentially the same, namely that of the Sejm and with regard to the laws of this The Sejm also performs the majority mode, which is basically the same when the regulations are adopted. These documents must therefore be adapted. I say as it was justified, so we read in the explanatory statement, although I have extended it a little bit. And why should the deadline be shortened? We're working... There's a line here. This is a certain design, it's a basic rule, and I'm talking about it for 30 days, and there's a transitional regulation, a state that I'm going to say, is, and here's 70. When we decided... [[7 days.]] Yeah, seven days, sorry. A similar design is contained in the existing law, although there are longer deadlines, but on the one hand there are 3 months to report, and on the other hand in the transitional provision, in Article. 136 were found to be only 30 days. To be precise, I'll see if it's offered 30 days to not lie, I'll check if I have that bill on me. Anyway, that's what it looks like. So that this is the applicable legislative principle. It is a matter of assessing whether these are adequate or inadequate deadlines, but you will be assessing them yourself.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u114	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u115	I didn't ask about the formal side. Of course you can type 30, 90, you can type 1 day or 7 days... I only wanted to know what is the justification for this difference and what is the justification for this seven-day period, the substantive justification, not the formal one.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u116	I've quoted... And I'll give you a reason. For reasons... Because maybe it wasn't written directly by the applicant. And that's where I'm gonna eat... Well, art. The proposed amendment to Article 136 is consequently repealed. 18 or so is the 30 days involved. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The specific time limit for the submission of an application, which was repealed by the draft Article, is proposed to be reduced as well. 137 to 7 days. This is a natural consequence of the codification of this novelty of the main legislative term with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. 1 point 3 of the project. Mr. Marshal, that is the justification of the applicant.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Bonisławski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u118	Mr. Senator, I still have questions I can't answer. I was wondering... Because it is written everywhere that it is the request of the Members of the PiS that we are debating this project today, but the only name I have heard in this group is the name of Mr Peterowicz. Yes? Am I right? Today... [[Voice from the room: It was the former senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u119	Yeah, yeah, he was the applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u120	Exactly. And that's why I'd like to know if it's the same... 'Cause I used to wander around the Podkarpacie a little bit, there was an old-fashioned member of the P.A.P.R. who thought he was in martial law... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...and then such an outrageous sentence passed... Yeah, it's the same one? It's always available... Yes. [[Disgraceful!]] [[That's an outrageous question. The level is really...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u121	Well, I think here, in the absence of a Member, such statements... I will admit that I know Senator Peterowicz from the best possible perspective. And some people here know him because he was chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions, and he was a very distinguished senator. I'll admit, Mr. Marshal... I'm gonna duck the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u122	Okay, thank you very much. Mr Czarnobaj, please... Senator, of course, I'm sorry. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We're about to file a motion to close the discussion because the level...]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes, Mr. Marshal, even earlier.]] [[There's no way...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Blackbay. You're welcome. [[The discussion can be shortened, but...]] [[She hasn't started yet.]] [[...but it can't be shortened.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you don't mind, I'd like to ask my colleague Bohdan Paszkowski three questions. One general question. Every time the Legislative Bureau... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[And how many of the Platform belonged to the PZPR? Tell me...]] [[Stas, don't get too low for that.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're welcome, Senator.]] Whenever the Legislative Office prepared an opinion, every such opinion began with words: the purpose of the bill is to... Could I ask Senator Paszkowski to state in his words what the purpose of this bill is? That's one question. And the other. Here are two questions I would like to ask regarding what the senator said during the report. So the debate has been going on for a long time... I would like you to clarify: since when is the debate on this bill going on? That's one thing. And the other. As the senator said... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, I'll wait until... [[I'm listening.]] [[Senator, listen.]] Mr. Senator said if he were Secretary of the big city, That's what I mean. He wouldn't pass that bill. So I understand that as secretary No, but as Senator rapporteur Yeah. [[Don't twist the words!]] I'd like an answer. And one more question I have for Senator Pociej. Are you Senator Comfort? [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] Oh, there he is. Mr. Senator, I understand that there were no constitutionalists' opinions about the bill under consideration, but from what I've heard, We weren't at the committee meeting. It follows that the opinions of the Legislative Office have been discussed. Would the senator please just give us a few words? Is it due to the late time to say whether this office praised the project or rebuked it or said it was good, but there are little comments? If you could use words like that... 'Cause that will clear up the situation with regard to the Legal Bureau's opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u124	Thank you. First, I understand, Senator Paszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u125	Yes. As for the purpose of the bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Go ahead.]] ...the aim of this proposal is to amend the Constitutional Tribunal Act of 25 June 2015. [[Voice from the room: Sure.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no, no, no, no. But that's my introduction. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: It's very simple, Mr. Senator.]] But this, of course, is my introduction. The applicant, who was present at the committee's meeting, started his words on the fact that they had the objective of restoring the constitutionality of the rules that were adopted in June 2015, which is a little bit of an answer... Let me put it this way: this is the answer... Since when did the discussion begin? I will say that since the Sejm passed the Act of 25 June 2015 on the Constitutional Court, the Act which is currently in force. More specifically, from the moment, let's say, this document appeared in public space, because there was a project and so on. After all, the discussion focused primarily on the following problem: It must be defined here whether the Sejm of the previous term of office has the right to choose candidates not only for those vacant posts in the Constitutional Tribunal which will appear during his term of office or to select members of the Constitutional Tribunal whose term will expire in December. And that's where the debate began. I repeat: this is where the debate began. Ladies and gentlemen, we are exchanging various kinds of arguments here, but I think that certain functioning good customs in this area have been broken. After all, the election of members of the Constitutional Tribunal is made by the Sejm. There were quotas, somebody was... You know, there's a rotating system, there's slowing places, and so on. What are we fighting about right now? We fight to make different political environments 'Cause that's the way it's gonna work. They were able to submit candidates to the Constitutional Tribunal. We know, the constitution requires that they be people, as the constitution says. And that's how close it is. The distinguished legal knowledge... And we in this Constitutional Court Act have introduced e.g. The record... That's what the constitution says, and we've introduced a record that only those who meet the criteria for the Supreme Court's candidacy stand out. Previously, such a provision was in force: Supreme Court Yes; but also the Supreme Administrative Court. Meanwhile, no, the bill only speaks of the Supreme Court. In other words, I'm also asking the question... And it's kind of a constitutional issue, too. It's to explain it graphically: so we find that a candidate who meets the criteria to be a judge of the Supreme Administrative Court doesn't stand out for that legal knowledge? Doesn't he stand out? Then we come to some absurdity, that's the consequences of the bill. [[Talking in the O.R.]] That's what I'm talking about graphically, 'cause it's gotta be done too. It wasn't just those arguments that were raised, that it was unconstitutional and so on. Here's the thing, and I, for example. I have such doubts, and I have reported them in the previous debate: the Constitution clearly states what could be the subject of the Constitutional Court Act. It's a matter of... There are, say, two limitations, namely the organisation of the Constitutional Tribunal and the procedure for examining cases. The Constitution says it regulates the bill. And we've gone a lot further, ladies and gentlemen. Starting with the powers of the Sejm As reported, who reported, what deadlines, etc. That's the consequence, let's not hide it. Same as the United States. I don't know why. Everyone said "prominent lawyers," etc., etc. They're worried about the Supreme Court judges. I don't know... [[And they do without the Constitutional Court.]] Because there's one environment that wants to report. Why? Is that not how we deal with this at the Court? Why is it basically possible to say that these five judges chose one environment or chose the political environments that formed the government coalition? I'll tell you more: let's not hide things. I heard today because I was watching the debate... There was even Mr Kropiwnicki and he explained: what are you doing with this president, after a few months he will submit... [[His term of office will be over.]] His term of office will be over. I'm the one who thought, "I'm gonna check on this term." I highly recommend... I'm gonna open a page on the computer... There's something very cool on the side of the Constitutional Court. Namely, there is a table of who is in the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal and when he ends his term of office. I checked. President Rzepliński's term of office ends next December. Well, nice few months... [[But they've already chosen!]] Almost there, in days. The following information is interesting. All those judges who started their term of office in 2006 or 2007 will now finish it. Well, let's say there's three who have finished their term and there's probably two who haven't finished their term yet. As we look at... As I recall, I'm having trouble opening the site right now... I can quote you later. But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm open! It's just to be specific, 'cause it opened up to me. President of Rzepliński... [[God, come on!]] [[Mr. Marshal, let's finish this. How much can I get?]] ...19 December 2016 I'm looking at who's next. 2019, 2020, 2021, 2024 [[This obviously needs to be shortened!]] [[Well, cut it short!]] That's what it looks like, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know where the rush came from. Why would you break a good habit? Of course, it was justified that the new Sejm might fail to select the remaining members of the Court, whose term of office will end on 8 or 2 December 2015. [[Double term!]] This argument can be accepted, but we see how the new Sejm processes. Wouldn't he have had time to select the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applause]] I don't think... [[God, come on.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, Mr. Senator, back to your questions... The point is that there are also the objectives of the Act, which was adopted on 25 June 2015, and which some provisions were non-constitutional. After all, there was a request made to the Constitutional Court by the relevant group of Members. And back to that trick question... Namely, with this city council session... [[Bogdan, Bogdan!]] It's a matter of... [[Bogdan, good!]] I would prefer that we proceed with the laws at the assumed pace expected by all. It's not always possible, as you can see. But certain customs have been ruined for many, many years. [[They've been ruined for years!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u127	Mr. Senator, I wouldn't want to answer why I think the legislator's opinion was negative without proper argument, so let me quote a few sentences. This is a faithful quote. This is the word of the legislator. From the sound record of the committee meeting. Article 4 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 194. 2 provides that the President and the Vice-President of the Court shall be appointed by the President from among the candidates submitted by the General Assembly of Judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. As regards the term of office of the Court, this is a complete regulation which does not require legal clarification. Even more: in the context of the provisions governing similar matters concerning the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, the proposed solution is incompatible with Article. Paragraph 194. 2 constitutions. This is because of the provision of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2 of the Constitution provides that the first President of the Supreme Court appoints the President of the Republic of Poland for a six-year term from among the candidates presented by the General Assembly of Judges of the Supreme Court and the provision of the Article. 185 of the Constitution that the President of the Supreme Administrative Court appoints the President of the Republic of Poland for a six-year term of office from among the candidates presented by the General Assembly of the Supreme Administrative Court Judges. As these three regulations are compared, it is clear that they are important because the judges of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court are inextricable, the legislator has decided to introduce a six-year term of office for the governors of the two courts. Moreover, in the case of the President and Vice-President of the Court, the legislator has not introduced in the article. Paragraph 194. 2 Constitutions of six years or any other limitation of term, because this limitation already exists and arises from the previous paragraph, which states that the Constitutional Tribunal consists of judges elected for nine years. The next amendment is that the legislative action leading to the cessation of the constitutional body is the shortening of the term of office of the Judges and the President who was previously elected. It constitutes an infringement of the principle of democratic rule of law and the principle of legalism; the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 23 March 2006. And the legislator continued to say that it is important to note that the 1997 Constitution for the bodies in which the term of office was shortened This is the constitution on which we are debating and on the basis of which the Constitutional Tribunal adjudicates, in comparison with the existing rules, and contained a transitional provision providing that the term of office of the constitutional public authorities and persons forming part of them, elected or appointed before the entry into force of the Constitution, shall end at the end of the period laid down in the provisions in force before the date of entry into force of the Constitution. Mr. Counselor continued to say that he himself, although he could not be accused of acting contrary to the Constitution, honors the terms of office that began before the legislation that shortens them entered into force. It is then referred to that the existing provision of the Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 provides that the President of the Court shall appoint the President of the Republic of Poland from among the two candidates submitted by the General Assembly. This solution is the same as those in force in the case of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. The adopted amendment provides that the President of the Court shall appoint the President of the Republic of Poland from at least three candidates submitted by the General Assembly. And further, if this solution is better than the previous one, the question arises as to why no similar changes were made in the case of the other courts. A certain minimum would be expected in this case to include the reasons for this differentiation in the explanatory memorandum. The justification is silent in this regard. Date of submission to the Marshal of the Sejm of candidates for judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. The proposed provision provides that the application for a candidate for a judge of the Court shall be submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm 30 days before the expiry of the term of office of the Judge of the Court. Without assessing the substance of such a solution, however, it should be concluded that this provision was formulated in breach of the rules of the legal language, and therefore does not constitute an agreement on the content of what the applicants referred to as a provision with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm provide that applications shall be submitted to the Marshal of the Sejm within 30 days of the end of his term of office. The wording of the provision proposed by the legislator makes it possible to notify candidates only on the 30th day Which, of course, was not even in line with what the applicants presented. And one last thing. Another change concerns the matter of taking a vow. As far as it is acceptable... the taking of the oath begins the term of office of the judge of the Tribunal. That was one of the most serious charges. In so far as it is acceptable to set a time limit for the taking of the oath, the provision that the taking of the oath starts the term of office of the Judge of the Court should be considered incompatible with the Constitution. The Constitution provides that the Constitutional Tribunal shall consist of 15 judges elected individually by the Sejm for 9 years; it shall be an article. 194. The Constitution does not provide for any role of President in this regard. I therefore point out that the opinion of our office is not only negative, but very negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u128	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question, Senator Augustine. [[But can I be the rapporteur?]] [[One minute!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u129	Not one, but I'll start with the first one. Firstly, Mr President, Mr Rapporteur and Mr President, I was briefly at a committee meeting, and I would like to ask you a question. In general, you will admit that if there was a Parliamentary submission and there was or was not a Sejm rapporteur, it was still a government representative. Of course, there was no position of the Council of Ministers, but we almost always had the opportunity to hear what the position of the Ministry is. Do you? This is the first question I asked was a representative of the Ministry of Justice, is the position of the Ministry known? I see Minister Ziobra here, so I ask you this and maybe I won't ask questions later if I hear the answer now. Secondly, I will refer to what was in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and what was happening at the committee meeting and what the Senator rapporteur did not say. Namely, please inform the High House, what was the answer to the plea made by Senator Borowski, that it is incorrect to justify the provision that the term of office should start on the day of the taking of the oath or in connection with the taking of the oath, because the Parliamentary resolutions on this matter always mean that the term of office of the judge of the Court should begin strictly. So saying that we wanted to regulate it, because it was not regulated and it is not known when the term began, is not true, because always in the resolution, what you showed Senator Borowski, it is marked, is a specific day. I'd like you to inform me about this part of the discussion. And another question. Please inform us why the Act contains an article. 2. What is the purpose of this article, which is to shorten the term of office of the current President, which expires three months after the entry into force of the Act? What's the reason? What's the point? We would like to know that, not participating in the committee's work. And one last question...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u130	Mr. Senator, please follow the rules. You had a minute to ask a question. [[I can ask them later if the marshal says so.]] [[Voice from the room: Preferably tomorrow morning.]] Good. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u131	The minister wasn't there. I spoke on this, too, and I said it was a matter of... He's in the courtroom right now, I see, Minister Ziobro; maybe he'll take a stand on this. I'm sure this position could help us, but sometimes there have been situations like this... I don't know what position the Minister will take, but I could also read... Well, he could also avoid the answer, because many times ministers, expressing themselves, emphasized that it is not, as it were, matter which is in the field of the ministry's activities. This is a law concerning the Constitutional Tribunal and here the field of government action may be such that the government of course presents a position, while interference in the system rules in this area, in the matter of the Constitutional Tribunal, will not be taken. Yeah, but the minister's here... So that's what it looks like. We worked, acted, didn't hide, in a certain mode, and thus there were some limitations, they were associated with it. That's one thing. Now the question raised by Senator Pociej about this opinion. But, ladies and gentlemen, I can... This is where we valued... Professor Chmaj has spoken many times. And he spoke about that law on 25 June 2015, for example on the subject of cadence. I quote: it would be justified to introduce into the new Constitutional Court Act regulations relating to the cadency of the President and Vice-President of the Court. The term of office is an obvious consequence of choice. The cadence order is intertwined with the duty to respect the will of voters expressed in the democratic voting act. See: the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 23 April 1996, cited here is its signature. And further: to introduce the principle of exercising the function of President or Vice-President of the Court by the maximum time fixed in advance (...) would ensure an objective verification of the correctness of the performance of the tasks by the President and Vice-President of the Court. (...) The unlimited possibility of this person, even for nine years, as President of the Court of Justice, stops the exchange of management staff, which is widely recognised as a factor hindering the development of the managed entity. It was Professor Chmaj's legal opinion on the presentation by the President of the draft Constitutional Tribunal Act. Well, gentlemen, for example, on the issue of referendums, as I recall here, we also had different opinions of constitutionalists, etc. So that I would have a line like that... I'm saying this in the context of an opinion. And here was the argument... [[Answer my question.]] The question is about opinion, and the question about the purpose of the article... you asked about the article... [[Art. 2.]] About the article. 2. Let me put it this way: it's also in the explanatory memorandum. The legislative solution contained in the article. 2 is modelled on the Article mechanism. 2 of the Law of 12 June 2015 amending the Law on the Supreme Court. What is it? This principle has repeatedly been applied, that if something new was introduced into the Act, such as a new term of office, it was necessary somehow in the transitional provisions to regulate the issue of what was found. And here, too, this mechanism has been applied. It can be assessed differently, wondering whether it's right or wrong, whether the term is short or long, but it's an acceptable and applicable rule. For example, the Supreme Court Act was cited here. That's what you do. That's what you do, it's not an assassination, I'd say, constitutionality, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes you get the impression that the charges are made on the basis of such a... After all, these are sometimes purely technical regulations, the question of whether two, one or three are presented. This is the will of the legislator, and it does not depend on the independence or independence of the judges. This is a matter that is regulated. We also made the prosecutor independent, and how many candidates does the National Judicial Council present to the President? Also, as I recall, there are at least two of them. [[Two.]] Two. That's the rule. Ladies and gentlemen, these statements do not regulate, do not decide whether something is constitutional or not constitutional. That's the rule, that's the will of the legislator. Of course, there are some trends in our legislation, there is a kind of test This process is not only about Poland but also about the Western countries. And so that the judicial authority can become more and more widely involved in areas that were formerly subject to legal freedom... There's a mechanism right now, I'm saying in general, it's a matter of... There was another senator's question, that's the third one... Could you remind me because...
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u132	I wanted to get an answer to the question, not the third, but the second question, which was the purpose of establishing the beginning of the term of office... [[Oh, the target, I know.]] ...in connection with the taking of a vow, since there is no doubt when the term of office begins, because it is always recorded in the resolution of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u133	And I will also answer on this principle: just because we specify something does not mean that it is contrary to the constitution or is compatible with the constitution. The fact that in this bill that the Sejm passed is such a record... he specifies a rule. [[But it's precise.]] It's precise and it's not precise because... Senator, you're getting a certificate of choice on the basis of, say, a document, a notice from the State Election Commission, but you're taking a vow. The senator's obligations will not be performed on the basis of a certificate. Although it gives you the right to take a vow But only at the time of the vows. [[So the marshal may not accept...]] Ladies and gentlemen, there have also been allegations that the President may not allow a vow to be made. But we want to settle this situation. It's 30 days, it's due to take the vows. If the president hadn't carried out this procedure on his own behalf within 30 days... [[Voice from the room: He's sick.]] ...that would be a violation of that law. That's... This is also the goal of avoiding any unnecessary interpretation in this regard. The fact that the Sejm chose on a certain date... Moreover, this date which the Sejm fixes is the expiry date of the predecessor's mandate at the Constitutional Court... [[Unprecise...]] Yes, but this principle is not the pupil of independence and independence of the Constitutional Tribunal. That's not the rule. Because if we write that at the time of the vow and the vow can be accepted, as the law lays down, within 30 days, this vow must be taken... And if we determine that at the time of the vow the term of office begins, then at that moment the term of office will begin, and it will not be the subject of... At the moment, there is no time limit for the president to take his vows. You're saying the president may be violating the constitution because he doesn't accept... You're talking about fallanding the law. Mr. Marshal Borowski referred to such a term. After all, we face these demands... we give 30 days to take the President's vows, we make this rule concrete.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u134	Thank you very much. Senator Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u135	A question for Senator Paszkowski. Is it true that the senator at the committee hearing said that we're rushing into this? That's one thing. Secondly, is it true that Mr Piotrowicz, as a representative of the Sejm, as a justification for this haste, spoke about examples of gambling laws, highway laws, pension funds? Do you think that the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act and those laws that Mr Piotrowicz referred to are equally important? It is about the Constitutional Court and the law that Mr Piotrowicz mentioned. And last question, Senator Pociej. Is it so that the opinion of the Legislative Office, which you quoted, was based on the fact that we, as representatives of the Civic Platform, have tabled an amendment which would delete the term of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u136	Senator Paszkowski first.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u137	About that last question, which I still remember... Was this opinion at the heart of how the Senators of the Civic Platform behaved? [[Voices from the room: It was a question for Senator Pociej.]] Senator Pociej? Because the only answer I could answer is this: ask those people for whom she has fallen or has fallen. [[Mr. Senator, just answer your questions.]] Sure. It is true that the senator, now a Member, Piotrowicz, referred to these circumstances, those laws that you mentioned. It's a fact. I have also recalled, even today, our various experiences in this field. I can enrich these examples... Are these laws equivalent? Those were important laws, too. As rapporteur, I do not feel able to say how important the members of the committee have attached themselves to the various laws because they did not express it directly. It is known that we are debating the Constitutional Court here. I am already a member of the Legislative Commission for the third term and attach great importance to the decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal. Most decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal, the vast majority, do not raise my objections, are very right. [[Is it true that the President said: have we been hasty about this project?]] Did I say... Come on, gentlemen, Mr. Senator... We're not discussing certain facts. [[Joy in the Chamber]] After all, it is clear that... we proceed in the procedure provided for by the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the Rule. 61. The truth is, we do it in mode... It's a procedure provided for by the regulations, let's call it universally applicable.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u138	Thank you very much. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u139	I'm going to step away from Senator Paszkowski's speech and answer very briefly: yes, Senator. I can answer for myself and for Senator Rulewski. The main reason why we tabled these amendments and the request of minorities was, firstly, the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation and, secondly, the opinion of our Legislative Office. I can add that in my case these were also statements, e.g. Professor Zoll, TV... that is, public, in which he also questioned the constitutionality of this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u140	Thank you very much. Now you're gonna ask Senator Rulewski a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u141	Mr. Marshal, thank you. I am asking you a question for Senator Paszkowski. Is it true that you, you and your allies, who voted in favour of this law without amendments, respect, respect and respect the three former judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. Professor Zoll, Janusz Stepnia and Łętowska? [[Voice from the room: Jerzy.]] [[Voice from the room: It has nothing to do with it.]] Yeah, George Walker. And how would you comment on Professor Zoll's speech, who said about this initiative: "This is following in the footsteps of Belarus." Similar work was done in Kazakhstan or Azerbaijan. Are we trying to take such a scary road now? [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u142	Thank you very much. [[Do you want me to answer that?]] Mr. Senator Paszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u143	Thank you. They're already telling me how to answer. I'll answer as I say... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] ...that this was not the subject of our deliberations. I wouldn't, because it's not the rapporteur's role either... Sometimes I went beyond her because I wanted to explain certain elements of the bill. But it's hard for me to read it like that because I'm going to say it on my behalf, and someone's going to say I'm going beyond the role of rapporteur. Those are the lines, I'd say, the grades that... I don't know what you're saying. Professor Zoll. [[Sorry, it's about the bill...]] Well, I put it in the vote because there were amendments tabled... That's it. This was not discussed, we did not explain the motives, I spoke at the committee meeting. That's it. You know my position because you were present at the hearing.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u144	Thank you very much. Senator Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u145	Mr. Senator, you have extensively quoted Professor Chmaj's opinion, making it seem as if Professor Chmaj accepted this presentation. I know it's the opposite, because I talked to the professor, and I know he has a similar opinion as Professor Zoll and the others were presidents. Don't confuse the problem. And please explain this to me, I will notabene request it to be four years, because no one has any doubt that it can be a term of office... But this is about something else, Mr. Senator. The fact that you, presenting this, seems to me that Professor Chmaj accepts the situation of the end of his term of office. Just so you can explain it.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u146	I explain, Mr. Senator... I specifically said... I said it in context, for example, because such elements were... [[Voice from the room: But...]] Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. 'Cause I said it's a fragment. He was even in any version of the justification, I do not know whether in the current version or in the previous version From the opinion that accompanied, and I said so, the presidential draft law on the Constitutional Tribunal in June 2015. I quoted it for a reason. I didn't say anything else but what I read. I don't know... I didn't even suggest and it wasn't my intention, nor did I say in any way that Professor Chmaj has any positive or negative opinion about this bill that we're investigating and which came out of the Sejm. I don't have an opinion on that, it was clear. But I said it, and I said it in this context... Because in this opinion, quoted by Senator Pociej, the legal opinion of our Legal Office, there were some considerations regarding the term of office. I was doing this with the intention of countering these arguments, that is, with the intention of remembering that if we ordered, although we did not do so, different opinions, as was the case with the referendum when there were opinions, and they were different in many elements at least, so to say graphically, 180 or 360 degrees... though not, because then we would go back to square one, so 180 degrees... Thank you. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u147	You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u148	I'd like to make a formal request for a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u149	Okay, I'm running a five-minute break by the hour... by midnight, right? [[Yes, sir.]] Good. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 23 minutes 56 to 0 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u150	I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, do any of you senators have any more questions for the senators of the rapporteurs? You're welcome, Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for the minority rapporteur, Senator Pociej. The senator in the previous reply, in one of the previous answers, referred to the opinion of our Legislative Office. This opinion is very critical when it comes to this submission, and in two places, I would say, crushing for him, accusing him of unconstitutionality. And I would like to know if you, as a minority representative, share this view on the non-constitutionality of the rule that our legislators consider to be unconstitutional. It is a matter of recognising that only the taking of the oath begins the term of office of the judge. The legislators say that, in so far as it is acceptable to set a 30-day period, the provision providing that the taking of a vow begins the term of office of a judge should be considered incompatible with the Constitution. And second place. The legislators state that the legislature may regulate the term of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, although in this case these opinions are isolated, but... The legislator considers that, in particular, in relation to such a body as the Constitutional Tribunal with the President, I quote: This does not mean the freedom to interfere with the current term of office. I will repeat the question: what role do these wordings play for the rapporteur of minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u152	Mr Senator, I will repeat once again that this was the basis for us to submit a request for minorities and, above all, for us to reject this submission. I'll recall the article. 194, on this basis is the line of reasoning of our Legislative Office, that is the term of office since the appointment of the Sejm. Therefore, the thought design, which was introduced in this submission, which states that only after the oath would run the term of office, firstly, is incompatible with this reasoning, resulting directly from the article of the Constitution, secondly, is incompatible with the article. 21 point 2 of the Constitutional Tribunal Act, because then point 2, which states that refusal to take a vow is equivalent to resignation, would not make any sense. What can be said if the vow is just beginning the term of office? So when it comes to other problems, they may be a little lighter, although they are, and are emphasized by our legislators, but here there is no doubt, at least for me, that it would be a violation of the constitution. I'm sorry. What was the second question? [[The second question concerned the shortening of the term of office of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal.]] This analysis also made it clear that this was not in line with the spirit of the 1997 Constitution, which itself provided for in relation to the previous authorities, because it did not shorten the term of office... It can be considered that the legislator, who is, as it were, above the ordinary legislator, understood the inadmissibility of shortening the term of office of the bodies which had been elected before the legislative changes were introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. The question you ask is Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u154	I have a question for the rapporteur, Senator Paszkowski. The first question relates to your previous answer. Namely, you claimed that these provisions were good, I am talking about the article. Because they do not allow the president to fallandise the law, they do not allow him to delay the appointment of a time limit for the vows, but lips. 1 does not refer to the President and does not oblige him to do anything. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 refers to the person selected. The person chosen... [[I'd like to ask you a question.]] ...a judge shall take a vow to the President within 30 days of the election. So it's an obligation, not on the president, but on the chosen person. I'd like to hear your interpretation here, because you've referred to it before, claiming otherwise. And the second question I didn't have time to ask before. [[One minute, Mr. Senator.]] Good. But it hasn't passed yet. [[Voices from the hall: Passed, passed.]] Then I'll ask them later. [[It's gone.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u155	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u156	I'm maintaining my position. It is a duty for both the person who makes the vow and the person before whom the vow is to be made.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u157	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u158	Thank you kindly. My question is addressed to Senator Paszkowski, which concerns the impact of the amendment on judicial independence. What you were talking about. The first provision of this amendment provides for a possible double term for the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, multiple terms of office... It's up to the president. The President shall elect from among the three candidates, so that the President may be elected by the President if he has been presented by the General Assembly. This certainly has an impact, in my opinion, on the independence of the judge. The judge has to try... In fact, the President must try to please the President if he is thinking of a second term. Do you confirm this opinion and have there been any proposals for changes in this area, such as one longer term rather than twice but relatively short?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u159	I don't share... And as for the conclusions, I do not recall that there are so specific conclusions in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u160	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Jacek Włosowicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have one question for both senators of the rapporteurs. Gentlemen, you have presented us with two reports. You can see that the law is an area where you're swarming. Speaking of these reports, you're like sailboats to me that traverse the oceans at full sails. However, in the courtroom, not all are law enforcement or lawyers. There are also people with engineering education and such experience, representatives of science. We need your reports to make a decision. You quoted because you had such experience from your previous term of office that the last amendment lasted for six months and ended up discussing various opinions that were contradictory to each other, mutually exclusive. And my question is this: if, given what I have mentioned, as well as the current legislative process that we are taking part in, you can advise us that if we adopt this law tonight or tomorrow, we could save six months? [[Voice from the room: Oh, engineering approach...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u162	You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u163	We have also expressed our position in the vote. I am one of the people who voted in favour and my colleague voted against. It's a signpost, too. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u164	Mr. Senator, the law is not a strict science, and the only answer I can answer is this: probably six months, by voting for this law, you will gain. And we could lose a few dozen years.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u165	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, there was supposed to be a new quality and I can see after an hour, and it is after midnight that this quality has occurred. Do we really need to proceed with such an important bill at such a rate? And can you also tell me why we are proceeding so quickly and why we are sitting so far to pass this bill? Those are questions. I repeat, these are questions. And I also have this question, perhaps basic: is it not so human that you feel sorry for our colleague Filip Libicki, who has been in a wheelchair for hours and has to proceed with us? Can't we just do it in human terms in normal hours, during the day, prepared, sleepy, with fresh shirt and socks, just have to sit so we can get tired of the material, so we can vote and show who's better?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u167	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter that was not an object in this sense... This was not the subject of a committee meeting. We're kind of going back to the things that I've been responding to and the things that my friends have been answering.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u169	Thank you very much. I ask you senators to submit questions that last no longer than a minute. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u170	Mrs. Marshal, I would like to ask Senator Paszkowski a question about his previous statement, which I received when I asked for his purpose. The senator said one of the objectives is to restore constitutionality. That's what the senator said. Now I'd like to ask him this question as an outstanding lawyer. Please tell me, because I do not know who in Poland is from ruling whether a given law is constitutional or not constitutional. [[Court.]] If you could tell me that, please. And are there any decisions with regard to this law that is in force today? The Court of Justice on its unconstitutionality?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u171	This bill we're talking about, which was passed by the Sejm? [[The previous one.]] The previous one? There have been constitutional complaints, one has recently been withdrawn and this law has therefore been proposed. And I, as I say, have already answered questions about the purpose of the bill, and I would not want to go back to that.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u172	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u173	Mrs. Marshal, I would very much ask that the Senator rapporteur answer the questions. We will ask specific questions and ask for specific answers. [[Answer...]] Who in Poland is the judge? [[Mrs. Marshal, I'm so sorry. I'd like to point out that you're not paying attention to your marshal. Please, don't pay attention. Okay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u174	Thank you very much. [[The questions may be asked, but don't ask your marshal questions...]] Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. Please ask Senator Piotr Zientarski a question. [[One minute.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u175	Mr Paszkowski, I have a question for you. It is related to the content of my doubts raised at the committee meeting, namely the lack of stakeholders on the matter. Well, this law imposes, as you say, an obligation on the President to take a vow within 30 days. What is the position of the President's Office? We don't know him. And I remember the same situation when I was the rapporteur, the initiator of the National Judicial Council Act. Back then, there were these kinds of ideas or similar ideas. Then representatives of the President's Office were invited and spoke on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u176	You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u177	There's no position, at least I'm not familiar with the President's position on this case, but it's a matter of compliance with the laws, and the President's compliance with the laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u178	Thank you very much. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u179	During the committee meeting, attention was paid to the issue which he also raised on TV today, because he was not invited, in any event he did not attend the committee meeting, Mr Rzepliński, namely that the result of this law could be such that five more judges would be chosen in addition to those elected by the Sejm. This will lead to a situation that paralyzes the action of the Constitutional Tribunal, which will even prevent the Court from complaining to the Court of Justice of those provisions which, in the opinion of the Legislative Office and ours, are contrary to the Constitution. This issue was raised at the committee meeting. I would ask the Senator President to tell me what the answers to these allegations were.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u180	The answers were basically presented in the discussion. It's hard for me right now to raise the question of how someone spoke and so on. You have also observed this discussion, at least part of it, and there have been different opinions, divergent opinions about the various parts of this law. [[Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u181	Thank you very much, Senator. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? Senator Slugocki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u182	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the term of office of the President and Vice-President of the Constitutional Tribunal. In addition to the views of the Senate legislators, I would like to ask, what is the reason, what is the nature, that the President and Vice-President finish their term of office within 30 days of the entry into force of the Act, since both the President and the Vice-President are persons with a recognised acquittal, scholars of academic titles, certain empirical baggage, widely respected. What, then, makes it impossible for their term of office to end with the expiry of the time specified in the June Act of this year? If the rapporteur were to be kind enough to catalogue the conditions which prevent the President and Vice-President from completing their term of office... Did the law enter into force somehow Is it depreciating what they've done so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u183	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u184	Thank you. I answered that question. That's a solution you're taking. This is a legal technique that should not be valued in any way. Whether it depreciates or depreciates... That's not the category. [[Can I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u185	Thank you very much, Senator. Is there anyone else? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u186	Mr. Senator, I think this is about the competence of certain people and their usefulness in carrying out such an important role as... [[It's not a debate. It's questions.]] ...not just about the legislative technique. [[I'm asking you a question, Senator.]] [[But the senator has already answered that question.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm very sorry, but... [[Asking questions is! Ask questions!]] I'm trying, Mr. Marshal. [[You've already answered the senator. So what else is he supposed to say?]] Mr. Marshal... [[Mr. Senator...]] [[I make a formal request, Mrs. Marshal. After asking that question...]] [[You're welcome, Senator, to ask a question.]] [[I'll make a formal request.]] Thank you very much. So I'm finishing this question. Is merely the law-making technique sufficient to end the term of office of the President and Vice-President of the recognised environmental achievements and positions in such a way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u187	Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u188	Thank you. It's a technique... That was the reason. Please note that in accordance with the new procedure, the same persons may be re-elected by the general assembly. That's the procedure. It's just starting up a new procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u189	Thank you very much. [[For the time being, I'm resigning from my formal application.]] Thank you very much. [[I'll make a formal request.]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's after midnight. A lot of questions, as well as answers, behind us. There'll probably be more questions. I would like to make a formal request on behalf of the Civic Platform Club to stop asking questions today and postpone further questions until tomorrow morning. This is a formal conclusion. I'm asking for his admission. [[Finished for tonight?]] [[Is this a one-man application?]] [[What conclusion? I object.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u191	Is anybody reporting... There's an objection. [[All the more reason that tomorrow morning will be...]] [[...Sunday.]] [[Saturday!]] [[Until today...]] [[I'm changing... it's about reschedule until this morning.]] [[Objection!]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am in charge of voting on a formal motion from Senator Klich. Who among you is in favour of adjourning until 9 a.m.? [[Voice from the hall: Tomorrow morning at 9 a.m....]] [[See you Saturday, Mrs. Marshal.]] Until today, until Friday morning. Who among you is in favour of adjourning and adjourning until Friday morning by 9 a.m.? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the outcome of the vote. 78 senators voted, 21 were in favour, 56 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 20]] I declare that the senators have denied Senator Klich's request. So that we continue our deliberations. Ladies and gentlemen, who else would like to ask a question? Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u192	During this part of the sitting in which I participated, doubts were raised as to what I am constantly asking, namely whether the President would actually be in connection with the article. Article 21 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 obliged within 30 days to organize the ceremony of taking the oath. Can't it be that... Isn't it important to be afraid, according to the rapporteur? It was raised. That the President, who now has a duty to appoint the candidates put forward by the Sejm, will not do so and may, unfortunately, not be obliged to do so against this reading... contrary to what you present here?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u193	You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u194	This term, in my opinion, will also apply to the President.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u195	Thank you very much. Who else would like to ask you a question? Senator Slugocki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I have a question for the senator of the rapporteur, if you don't mind. I hope this is not just a matter of legislative technology. Mr. Senator, in the article. 18 the law still in force is that the judge of the Court may be chosen by a person who is distinguished by legal knowledge and, first, has the qualifications required to be a judge of the Supreme Court, secondly, on the day of his election he is 40 years of age and 67 years of age. You're proposing to resign from point two. In my opinion, this point allows you to choose people with specific professional experience, life experience, but also specific competences. Many times man's maturity is related to his scientific degrees so far acquired. Does it not seem to you that the withdrawal from the latter criterion will undermine the capacity of potential judges of the Constitutional Tribunal? Thank you very much. [[It'll weaken.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u197	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u198	I think it's like restoring the rule that is in force in the Constitution, where it's said that the judge of the Court is to be a person distinguished by legal knowledge.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u199	Thank you very much. Who would like to ask you another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. High Izbo, the meeting is attended by a representative of the government, Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Minister? [[Thank you very much. If there are no questions, I don't volunteer.]] [[There were questions.]] Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to ask the Minister a question? Please, the questions must last no longer than one minute. You're welcome, Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u200	Minister, I would like to ask you a question about taking a vow in the hands of the President. Well, we have a precedent. The President shall not accept the oath from the five members of the Constitutional Tribunal elected by the Sejm. Therefore, I ask the Minister: is the principle that a person elected as a judge takes a vow to the President of the Republic of Poland 30 days from the date of his election, to the person chosen, or is it the President's obligation to take this oath within 30 days?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u201	Thank you very much. Minister, please come to the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say first of all that the bill comes from a parliamentary submission, and therefore the government has not taken a stand in this matter. Nor does the Ministry, which I have recently led, take a position on this matter. Therefore, my view, which I will express here, is only my own opinion on this matter. Please treat him anyway, which is not preceded by prior consultations. But, of course, I am a parliamentarian, an MEP, I have taken part in the vote, I have made a decision consciously and with the conviction that this is the right direction for change, and I fully share it. As far as the President's position is concerned, I think it's worth appealing to his words that have been made public. The President has made it very clear that he has fundamental reservations about the amendment of the Constitutional Tribunal Act and, in particular, the new selection procedure, the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal whose term of office has not ended during the past term of office of the Sejm, which has made its choice. And in view of these fundamental reservations, I believe, it is more than reticent to decide whether to accept a promise from the chosen persons who, in the light of the law, In my opinion, They are not judges, they have not begun their term of office. I repeat: they are chosen and only then will they gain all the powers and title to refer to them as judges of the Constitutional Tribunal when they pledge. As I understand it, Mr President, as guardian of the Constitution, has come to the conclusion that this choice, which was made on the basis of a law adopted by the previous Sejm, has in itself an important legal defect which at least questions the constitutionality of this solution. He therefore concluded that the choice of those who would later make such a promise was so seriously flawed that he was unable to take responsibility for it by taking the oath. That's how I understand it. Of course, I didn't consult with the President. This is my opinion on this, and this is a conclusion that I make on the basis of the public statements made by the President and his representatives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u203	Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. The question is Senator Jan Rulewski. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u204	I didn't get the answer. Minister, I didn't get an answer. I ask the Minister because such questions were also asked to the Senator rapporteur and his answer was clear to me, namely that this deadline obliges not only the person making the pledge but also the President to accept this promise. Because I'm still having second thoughts, so I asked you that question. And the question is, is this rule that's kind of repeated? Because we were only given 30 days, the deadline was added In the amendment or which is introduced into the amendment... [[Introduced rather than repeated.]] In, all right, in. ...or does he require the President to take the oath?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u205	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u206	First of all, as far as I am concerned, it appears that these are outstanding constitutionalists who, of course, sometimes expressed different opinions on the solutions in force in the Constitutional Tribunal Act, have called for such solutions. I believe that the initiators of this change, which you are asking the Marshal, were also guided by the opinions of those constitutional experts who said that this kind of deadline for accepting the promise was justified. I didn't participate in this work, so I can only guess that's what it is. And if that's the date that was introduced, then that's it. In some sense, as I understand it, also the instructional term for the President should prompt him to take such a promise during that period. But it is not a mandatory term, as it seems to indicate content. However, I do not want to make a clear statement about this, because I stress that this is a matter for which the rapporteur, I believe, is more competent as a participant and observer of the debate that took place in the committee. He probably had the opportunity to learn the arguments of the initiators of this record. I think that this change that is being made here is certainly a term that the President will consider. But the extent to which this change is binding on the President is an issue of interpretation.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u207	Thank you, Minister. You ask Senator Jan Rulewski a question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, you said you were in favour of this law on direction. But does this mean that you would accept these amendments, which are the biggest problem not only for this room, but also for the social environment, especially for lawyers? I would like to remind you of these key issues: shortening the term of office of the President and Vice-President of the Court, making the length of the term of office dependent on the moment when the President takes the oath, refusing to recognise the election of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal during the previous term of office.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u209	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u210	I think the best answer is the vote. As the senator can see, I have taken a position on this matter, not only in my opinion, but also in my decision to participate in the vote. So it seems that there is no need for further reasoning in this regard. My vote best indicates that I support these solutions. [[It was then...]] I am talking about the vote in the Sejm, the vote that took place there and about these very solutions. I'm an MEP, so I also voted. And as for the last question that the senator wanted to ask, in my opinion, the president did not refuse to take the oath from the judges, because in my opinion, they are not judges... [[They're here! What do you mean they're not?]] ...only those chosen by the Sejm, which any attributes and features of the judge would have received only if this promise had been taken away from them. That's my assessment and interpretation as a lawyer. [[No, it's not.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u211	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is Senator Piotr Wach.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u212	Thank you kindly. Minister, point 3 of the article. 1 the amendment provides for applications to the Marshal of the Sejm for the application of the candidate for a judge 30 days before the expiry of the term of office of the Judge of the Court. As we have already established here, as a result, there is actually a single day for the notification to be made. This may not only be very uncomfortable, but also difficult to perform. Doesn't the Minister think that... I know that he was criticized, and there's a rule that made it too freely, because he only set one limit, and the other one could have been, so to speak, anytime. But don't you think there should be scope here? Even shorter days, e.g. between the 40th or the 50th day and the 30th day before the end of the term of Judge's term of office? Then all this would be easier to do and the various aspects discussed here could be taken into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u213	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u214	Mr. Senator, of course, different alternative scenarios and solutions can be considered, and it would probably be possible for each of them to find arguments that could be rightly raised in favour of changing these terms. But you can also lean on those solutions that have been adopted. They are feasible, although they obviously require some mobilisation. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this fast track of work on the bill also serves to make this very important matter It also raises constitutional doubts about the President, and it has given rise to a discussion much earlier before the Law and Justice initiative Just tidy it up. Of course, the issue will be controversial, because we have this kind of matter here, one that arouses a lot of emotions. We're all watching, we're part of it. Such strong assessments, full of emotions also aroused earlier changes pushed by the previous Sejm, by most of the POs PSL. Yes? So we're doomed to argue about this case. One could say that the great cause of all this is the change that occurred in the previous term. If it hadn't happened. Mr. Senator and I think you'll agree. This would not be today's discussion, there would be no opportunity for further discussion on this subject. [[Applause]] But since what happened happened, today we're in the vortex, you can say, in the center of typhoon, of course in quotes, I refer to a metaphor here. And in the interests of probably all of us and the legal order of the Republic of Poland it is in order to resolve this matter as soon as possible, resolve and move forward. Hence, I think, this haste is justified here.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u215	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Senator Mieczysław Augustyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u216	Mr. Minister, referring to your answer... Don't you think the right place and the only place to settle this dispute you're talking about is the Constitutional Court? That's the first question. The other one's like this. In your long practice as a Member, as a Minister, now for the second time, have you ever been questioned by the resolution of the Sejm on the date of the start of the term of office of the judges of the Court? [[Excuse me, no...]] Did your doubt as a Member and Minister ever raise the date for starting the term of office of the Court's judges as set out in the resolution of the Sejm? And the third question. Minister, I was asking the question... Aren't you afraid that there may be such a situation that at some point twenty judges of the Court will be elected, although the constitution speaks of fifteen, which will lead to the main paralysis protecting us from unconstitutionality, or actually the only protection against the unconstitutionality of the authority in the State?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u217	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u218	Let me start with the senator's last question. In my view, such a danger is not due to the fact that the person who was elected by the Sejm is not yet, in my view, a judge and... [[On what grounds do you think that?]] On the very basis that the bill clearly uses the concept of the chosen person, and if there is a procedure for the President's acceptance of the oath, then... It was not by chance that he expressed concern about the current President of the Constitutional Tribunal or Professor Zoll referred to here, with whom I disagreed, and pointed out the extraordinary importance and importance, from the point of view of the legal consequences, of the President's acceptance of the promise... If it did not have such a meaning and a constitutional importance as regards the status of a judge, then, as I understand it, neither the President of Rzepliński nor Professor Zoll would have put the matter in this way, on the blade of a knife, would have seen very far-reaching consequences, in their negative assessment, in my not, we differ here. That's one thing. Second. As far as the resolution is concerned, here's what I'm gonna say. I think it is essential to answer the question of what is the rank of the resolution and the bill. I think it is clear to all of us, to you as creators of the law, co-creators of the law, because there is a legislative process which always passes through the Sejm, etc., that the law is an act of superior rank in relation to possible resolutions which must have a statutory basis. In this case, since we are referring to the issue of the bill, the resolutions that are building this term of office, which the senator asked about, do not find any basis in the law. On the contrary, the bill, which I have already had the opportunity to talk about here, speaks of the chosen and not of the judges, and this crucial moment for this event, which is the entry into full rights and duties of the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, is precisely connected with the acceptance by the President of the promise. If that were not the case, once again I stress, there would not be this dispute and criticism of the President from some points of view that he does not accept this promise. The first question that the senator wanted to ask is, as I understand it, related to the opinion which was, as it were, included in this question, that it is only the Constitutional Tribunal that is entitled to settle constitutional doubts as to the status of legal acts, including of course the laws. I'll appeal to my memory here. I recall that many times during the last eight years of the governments of the majority of POs The opposition, including the representatives of Law and Justice, but sometimes also of the SLD, raised constitutional reservations about various legal acts, arguing that additional opinions should be referred to in relation to the objections raised and that the Marshal of the Sejm, and then the majority or the President, through their decisions, did not share them. I even remember that some laws, such as the SKOK Act contested by the former president, the sacred memory of Lech Kaczyński... After all, in a large part this complaint was withdrawn by President Bronisław Komorowski, despite the strong arguments which were found in the complaint, which were supported in the opinions of prominent constitutionalists' lawyers pointing to the shortcomings of the bill. It is a law that extends the scope of supervision of the SKOK. It's about the bill... I missed it. I'm sorry. It's nighttime. Surveillance... [[Voice from the Chamber: Financial Supervision Commission.]] Yeah, the Financial Supervision Board, yeah. Thank you so much for reminding me. In a word, despite serious constitutional doubts, despite opinions that pointed to these constitutional doubts, few, despite the decision of the President of the Holy Memory, who even referred the complaint to the Constitutional Court, had to have very serious indications that this law was or could be unconstitutional, President Bronisław Komorowski withdrew the complaint and did not allow the Constitutional Court to deal with the matter because he had a deep conviction that this law was in line with the Constitution in this respect. So each of us, whether it's the Sejm, whether it's the Senate, and then finally the president, every time we make a decision on the legal solutions we're going to have to decide in our conscience whether the solution is constitutional or not. But, of course, there is also a stage... the role of the Constitutional Tribunal, and it doesn't bother me that... I have heard such announcements that this bill is to be challenged to the Constitutional Tribunal.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u219	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask Senator Piotr Ziientarski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u220	Minister, I address you as an experienced lawyer. Do you have constitutional reservations as to the election of three judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who were elected in the last term in place of judges whose terms ended during the seventh term of office of the Sejm. [[November 7th.]] In the previous term, anyway. Do you have any objection to that?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u221	Thank you. Well, I have a reservation to the legal basis, which was the basis for everyone's choice, but unfortunately it is impossible to separate this legal basis... The legal basis was the same for everyone. Therefore, if we assess whether a given... [[Everyone was individually chosen, I'm so sorry.]] But the legal basis was the same. If the legal basis is flawed, then the whole process, which is constructed on the basis of such a legal basis, also raises concerns and doubts. Just like you. I said, after all, these doubts were raised about this legal basis, not about the choice itself. I am talking about the legal basis, the assessment of this legal basis by constitutional law experts, also in opinions ordered by the party initiating these changes, i.e. by the Civic Platform. Here some of these opinions were cited. In a word, the legal basis had its flaws. At the moment, I do not engage in a dilemma of three or two elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, but I draw the attention of the senator to the legal structure itself which gives the basis for this choice, which is burdened with a flaw and deserves a change in its entirety, not to separate it between three and two... But I can answer in this way: of course, the fundamental charge concerns those two judges of the Constitutional Tribunal who were elected by the Sejm of the previous term of office for the period already in the course, as we know, of the next term of office of the Sejm. On this basis, we could now elect future judges for the next term of office of the Sejm, in four years' time. We can, in this way of reasoning, if we consider the correct and correct decisions taken on the basis of the defective law adopted in the previous term of office to make a choice far ahead. Well, you can't agree with such philosophy or such reasoning, because it would have very far-reaching consequences for the rule of law. Each majority would try to usurp the right to move forward, far ahead, to elect future judges, such as the Constitutional Tribunal, or to make other cadence choices. It leads, in one word, to some absurdity. In short, Mr. Senator, there is no doubt that there are also outstanding experts, including those whom you often call here. For example, Professor Zoll pointed out that this choice and this legal basis, which allowed it to be made, were contrary to the Constitution. And that's the cause of all the problems that we have to solve today.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u222	Thank you, Minister. You're asking Senator Wiesław Kilian.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u223	Minister, I have a question: do you agree with the reason for the withdrawal of the action from the Constitutional Tribunal by Law and Justice? What's your opinion? You're the Minister of Justice. Knowing that and speaking about the law passed in June 2015 has constitutional shortcomings... And that bill was withdrawn from the Constitutional Court. What's your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u224	The complainant always has such a right and can benefit from it, and in this case the complainant has also exercised such power. It is more interesting that later the authors of this law submitted the twins, you can say, copied the charges to the Constitutional Court, trying to encourage the Court to deal with this matter. This is interesting and makes you wonder why it happened. I will say more, and it is also very interesting that the Constitutional Tribunal treats this action extraordinarily, because we know that the rule is that the determination of cases which are recognised by the Constitutional Tribunal usually covers a period of about a year and a half, even up to two years, and that the application was intended to be dealt with in less than three weeks. That also raises the question of why this haste, why this extraordinary procedure. And this is still during the period when the new Sejm is constituted, the new parliamentary club, when, for a good cause, the new parliamentary club is not even able on the basis of a certain continuity of representation of the complaint to prepare itself fairly to defend this complaint, when other authorities of the States participating in the process of ruling on the constitutionality of the law may not have had sufficient time to properly prepare themselves to hear the complaint before the Constitutional Tribunal. This extraordinary mode also makes you think and wonder, because it is something unheard of in the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. So the question is, what are the grounds for the applicants, you have to address them. I do not know, I did not ask, but they certainly had the right to do so and have exercised this right, and maybe they have also taken into account the fact that the result of the parliamentary elections gave the opportunity to bring about the sanction of this defective bill which caused the problem, created a problem as a result of the unnecessary changes made by the previous parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u225	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Piotr Zientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u226	Minister, I'm sorry to come back to the question, but I'm asking you about these three elected judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. What legal basis do you find wrong when choosing these three judges? Because you said in general that basically... I'm not talking about basically these two... I'm asking about these three.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u227	The legal basis for all, not just three, but five judges, is the same... [[No, I mean...]] ...is the same, which means... There's a recipe that talks about choosing three and choosing... [[But each one was chosen separately.]] But I'm not talking about how he was chosen, I'm talking about the legal basis. If you go to the law that gave rise to the choice of these judges, would you say that the other rules regulated the choice of the first three judges you are asking about, and the other rules regulated the choice of the two judges, was that the same rule? [[But...]] Was it the same recipe? We're talking about an assessment of the rule, not a choice. [[The rules are still valid and are the basis for the selection of further judges.]] So I draw your attention to the fact that the rules, the law, the law... [[Which recipe?]] This provision, which provides the basis for the election of 5 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal... [[There's no such rule.]] ...had flaws, a recipe that was the basis for choosing... On what basis were the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal elected during the previous term of office of the Sejm? [[That's bullshit.]] [[The Sejm's resolutions. The legal basis is the resolution of the Sejm.]] [[Mr. Senator, the Minister answers the question. You're welcome...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: This is not a discussion.]] [[There's a question and an answer. All these years and you don't know that...]] [[You're welcome, Minister.]] Legal basis... That's all I can say about it. Mr. Senator, I'm sure we have different opinions, and I'm sorry I can't satisfy you with your answer. [[It's not about opinions, it's about the answer.]] So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u228	Thank you very much, Minister... [[The legal basis is felerna. In my opinion.]] Thank you very much, Minister. You ask Senator Augustine a question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u229	Minister, Senator rapporteur with regard to the article. 2 said that if the law changes, it is permissible to put out the term of office of the former head of the institution, the President, etc. Do you share that view? From now on, will it be possible to shorten the terms of the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, the National Radiophony and Television Council, by amending any provisions in these laws and based on this opinion of Senator Paszkowski on this interpretation? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The question is not about this bill, this matter, Senator.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u230	Mr. Senator, I don't want to go beyond the matter of the law that is being examined by the High House right now, I prefer to focus on this law. [[So, then, do you consider this provision justified?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I think it's justified.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u231	Please, the Minister has already answered the question, right? Thank you, Minister. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Just a quick question. Minister, is it correct to conclude: in the opinion of the Minister, the June bill, if I remember correctly this year, until today, is incompatible with the constitution? Am I reading this right? [[Excuse me, what year is it?]] Well, the one that's still in force tonight, talking about picking these five... [[Voice from the room: June.]] June.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u233	Mr. Senator, we're talking about an amendment that the Civic Platform pushed through in the last term of office of the Sejm. [[Yeah, yeah.]] [[Voice from the room: with PSL.]] [[PSL.]] This amendment, in view of the fact that it has taken place as regards the election of judges, outside the parliamentary term, of the past parliamentary term, has been assessed as contrary to the constitution by many representatives of the doctrine of constitutional law, including those who are often invoked by the States on this side of the stage... So I share their views in this sense, and I really believe that these opinions had a basis, which is why we meet and work today.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u234	Thank you very much, Minister. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? Senator Zdrojewska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u235	I'll get back to the case. Because it seems to me that at the committee's meeting we have repeatedly asked questions and we have not received a very precise answer about the matter of taking a vow, that is, the provision introduced by this draft law, which we are discussing today, which reads as follows: "The oath begins the term of office of the judge of the Court." And I will refer again to your legal knowledge. If that provision has not been made so far, it appears that the term of office of the Judges of the Court appointed in this term of office which has already been, has already begun, those 5 appointed. Therefore, I would like to know very precisely and ask... So, since it wasn't there before, and that term in the next... The appointment of judges, 5 judges will probably cause us to have 20 judges of the Constitutional Tribunal. In your opinion, Professor Banaszak, who also gave an opinion on Mr Duda's bill, and therefore I believe he is an authority, the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot be dismissed. I'm gonna call in here... Mr Banashak wrote in his 2015 commentary, page 978, the third thesis, that according to the principle of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Let me finish. In accordance with the principle of independence, the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal cannot be dismissed. I'd like you to be very specific about that. Do you have any doubt here that the introduction of such records will be undermined and that we are proceeding over an unconstitutional act?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u236	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u237	Senator, I have taken a very clear position on this matter. In my opinion, I refer to the literal wording of the law, which today applies to the person elected by the Sejm is not yet a judge. It is not by chance that the law uses the term "the chosen person." If the law considered this person elected as a judge, it would use the concept of a judge to take a promise, and it is not. If that is not the case, then it should be presumed that the legislator, for reasonable reasons, varied the situation and status of the judge and the person chosen. Otherwise, we would have to presume that the legislator, the legislator, is acting in some sort of chaos, we would have to look for an interpretation that contradicts a certain logic of interpretation. A purposeful interpretation, logical interpretation, language interpretation, each of them In this case, they conclude that the difference between the judge and the chosen person was deliberately introduced by the legislator. In this sense, there is no problem in my view, because without accepting the promise also in today's state of affairs, we can clearly conclude that we are dealing only with the chosen person. [[Excuse me, I'll ask you again. It's clear and obvious... then why did this record come in?]] Mrs. Editor, there are a lot of things we could leave behind... [[Senator.]] [[Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, ……]] Senator, I'm sorry... sorry, guys, it's tired. It's late, we're probably all feeling... [[Voices from the room: Early, early.]] Early, yes. We started a new day. It is often the case that the Constitution allows for some clarification of solutions in lower-ranking acts, i.e. in laws, but it is desirable and indicated I think that's what Professor Chmaj or the other professors who prepared the opinions said in one of his opinions; my name is now missing. To make such solutions clear, set out in the lower order. As I understand it is this request, which was made during the legislative work still in the previous term, that encouraged the authors of this project to include this type of provision precisely in the act of statutory rank. However, this does not contradict the fact that the existing wording of both the Constitution and the current law allows rationally, using the methods of interpretation which I have referred to here, i.e. intentional, logical and linguistic, to conclude that the chosen person is not a judge, that there is a difference between the judge and the chosen person. And that's why I don't see the problem that the senator, probably from a subjective point of view, draws attention to. I understand that, I respect that, but I don't share that concern here.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u238	Thank you, Minister. Do any of you senators have a question for the Minister? Senator Zientarski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u239	Minister, you referred to the legitimacy of the legislator when it comes to the distinction between a person elected as judge of the Court and a judge. Do you think the legislator assumed that the president would not take the vows from the person who was elected?
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u240	Mr. Senator, if the legislator envisaged taking the oath and giving it such a great rank as your distinguished lawyers, Professor Zoll or Professor Rzepliński speak of... [[That's not what they say.]] [[That's not what they say.]] [[Far-reaching criticism.]] That's what they say, when they criticize, that's how they judge this situation and draw far-reaching conclusions from it, from failing to accept this promise. These are their opinions and the words you refer to. This is a very far-reaching criticism that I do not share. This means that the legislator has actually given the President's promise of a very high rank, a great importance which is constitutional to the acceptance that the chosen person becomes a judge. In this sense, the President, on his own responsibility, decided that he did not accept this promise because of the very far-reaching reservations and constitutional doubts about the legal arrangements that were adopted at the end of the previous term of the Sejm. If I'm gonna stress that again. This far-reaching solution has not been adopted by the previous majority, it would certainly not be an opportunity for us to start late at night. A new day in this High and Noble House.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u241	Thank you very much, Minister. Is that all the questions? I don't see any volunteers. None of you want to ask a question anymore, so thank you very much, Minister. [[Thank you very much.]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening the discussion. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska signed up for the discussion first. Senator, come in. You've signed up for the discussion, so please join us in the podium. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u242	Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask a question on this matter and I would do it quite quickly, but I was afraid that it would not last more than a minute, and I wanted to draw attention to a case that has not been raised so far, and perhaps with allegations of unconstitutionality it is not the most important thing, namely to refer to comments that have appeared not only in the country but also abroad. Our democracy is the last quarter of a century. We have achieved a great deal at this time, we have learned a great deal, also in the field of law. And finally, after many years, we begin to succeed, because if we gain some positions, for example. In the European Union, in committees it is fairly simple for Poles, but being in very prestigious legal circles is no longer easy and sometimes requires many, many years of work, and a good opinion is very easy to lose. I would like to remind you that recently Judge Agnieszka Klonowiecka-Milart was appointed judge of the Arbitration Tribunal at the UN. 120 countries voted for it. Something like this happened for the first time, for the first time a Polish judge got such an honor. I would like to say that Mr Piotr Hofmanski, for the first time in his history, was a member of the International Criminal Court in The Hague, and was sent there directly from the Supreme Court. We can really be proud... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry... [[Quiet, please.]] We can really be proud that we have such a representative in the Hague Court. I would also like to say that there is a judge Krzysztof Wojtyczek in the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and this is only the third judge since 1992. Why am I listing these undoubted achievements? Because not only in Poland in recent days is there a discussion on the manner of implementation and the alleged unconstitutionality of this law that we are discussing. This discussion is also taking place in Europe and comments such as, I don't know, yesterday's or the day before yesterday's opinion in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung have been made that an attempt has been made to neutralize the typical democratic control institutions. That's the reporter's opinion. It could be a political opinion. But let me also quote the opinion of the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe. This is a very important figure, a person with really outstanding achievements. Well, he said that this decision undermines the rule of law and should be withdrawn. I would like to point out that in this system Poland has the chance to only a few places in the highest institutions of European law, exceptionally, Senator, prestigious and extremely important. We can only get them thanks to our very good opinion of our lawyers and our way of making law. You may disagree with me, but I ask that those who have doubts take this into account as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u243	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Piotr Ziientarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna rip my robes off when it comes to procedure, because different laws have been adopted in different modes. But I do not recall that the Constitutional Tribunal is the foundation of a democratic rule of law, which I am talking about respect for the Senate in this House. Without the opinion of constitutionalists. Especially since our Legislative Office clearly presented no doubts, but concrete allegations of unconstitutionality. This is a general remark. In part, these opinions were already quoted in the answers. I would like to stress that the article added to the Constitutional Court Act. 137a provides that in the case of judges of the Court whose term of office expires in 2015, the time limit for lodging the application referred to in Article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, shall be 7 days from the date of entry into force of this provision. This recipe, in my opinion... And I'm a constitutionalist, although I'm only a doctor of constitutional law, but I already have some work in this area right now. And I'm constantly consulting. Because I'm in this environment. With outstanding and not only representatives of this teaching. They often had different opinions, but now I haven't met anyone. And I've spoken to a few people who have spoken on a number of issues, often inconclusively. Who wouldn't have at least constitutional doubts. Of course, there's no time to make an opinion, because there's no way. The rule I just told you about, Art. 137a, is incompatible with Article. 2 and the principle of a democratic rule of law, Article. 7 and the principle of legalism, Art. 10, that is, the principle of three divisions of power, and the principle of art. 194 Constitution, which defines the composition of the Constitutional Tribunal. The provision is one-off, but, please note, it is not a transitional provision. It does not contain a legal standard, as it contains an individual standard and only applies to judges of the Court whose term of office expires in 2015 and the need to select new judges in their place. I didn't ask the Minister if they were... Yes, there were doubts about these two elected judges, but there is no collective responsibility. The resolution applies to each judge separately. The resolution of the Sejm clearly indicates when the term of office begins. Three judges have already begun their term of office. [[You shouldn't have...]] Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator, but what are they guilty of... [[You should have stopped it.]] Excuse me, but this is some kind of corporate responsibility rule. So far, no one's questioned... [[And how did you vote in June?]] Please? [[How did you vote in June?]] I voted in favour. [[Voice from the room: But...]] I was the rapporteur... I was gonna say that in a minute. I was in the Senate rapporteur for this bill, and on the question of why I support this bill... Besides, you're the President of the Court. 'Cause it wasn't the Platform that wanted to... The President of the Court is concerned about the continuity of the judiciary And there's a lot of work, there's backlogs. He asked because he predicted... And those predictions came true. As far as these three judges are concerned, they were elected in the last term. On the other hand, in the case of these two And that's what I said from this speaker, you can check it out, is the fear that the 30-day deadline for the selection of candidates will not be fulfilled. And it turns out... That's what I said, check it out. Not that I'm juggling... I say why I voted in this way: because there is a real fear that judges will not be elected in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. I'm talking 30 days. And it works. They couldn't be chosen. I have in mind these 30 days so that there is no interval during the term of office of these two judges. Well, that's the truth. [[There were a couple of intervals.]] That's what this concern was about. That's what I said. [[And what was the opinion of the constitutionalists?]] ...and I confirm it. Opinions... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me. The opinions were different, but I'm talking about these three right now. Gentlemen, we will not argue. I'm just explaining what I said. I'm not taking a single sentence out of this. It turns out that these concerns about the deadlines are real and confirmed. Because there's no way to keep this 30-day term without an interval. There's no way the whole Court... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...in full squad could have worked. I'm not gonna tell you again. So much for the Marshal's question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen... It's not about questioning... Professor Chmaj... I'm also in favour of introducing a term of office. I don't mind, I even have an amendment that I'm making. It's four years. Because on average this has been calculated in terms of the history of the Court's activities, that on average it is four years. So that's what I'm applying for. But it is another matter entirely, ladies and gentlemen, to shorten the term of office of the elected authorities properly. I want to serve the opinion of the Helsinki Foundation. In the view of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, it is apparent from the principle of judicial independence and independence that the executive and legislative authorities should refrain from dismissing the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the courts and the Court of Justice, since such action could be used to put pressure on the judiciary by political authorities and thus adversely affect the assessment of public opinion as to the impartiality and independence of the courts and the Court. In this context, we would like to point out that, in the judgment in Baka v Hungary, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the dismissal of the President of the Supreme Court while leaving him as judge of that court infringed the European Convention on Human Rights. I don't think we should completely ignore all of this. So that's the thing. There is a question of overcoming Parliament's powers, namely breach of the democratic rule of law, Article. 2 constitutions, principles of legalism, according to which all bodies act on the basis and within the limits of the law, Article. Seven, and the rules of three divisions of power. This is where we bring in a new situation... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] Yes? [[Time, ten minutes...]] I'm the one who's finishing up, and I'm gonna turn myself in again. I'm just gonna finish this thought. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are not only introducing the dependency of elected judges, but also limiting the law of the Sejm. It is the Sejm who chooses, the Sejm who sets the terms of office. At the moment, the situation arises that we equip the President with powers he does not have at the expense of the Sejm. And balancing the authorities... It's an art. 10 collaboration, but also balancing. That's the way it's put it. I'm gonna take a break, and in the next five minutes, I'm gonna give you a few more arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u245	Thank you very much, senator. I would remind you that the discussion should not be longer than ten minutes. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna go over what I said at the committee meeting, which is why I apologize in advance to all the members of the committee who took part in it, and they're gonna hear it all over again. First, minor comments, which are rather discussed rather than constitutional issues, I believe. The issue of cadence is probably not, after all, a constitutional issue, although actually shortening what is already going on may be discussed and may be examined by the Court. But I don't think that's essential. Only that an example of the Supreme Court is referred to in the argument given in the explanatory memorandum of the Act. Because the President of the Supreme Court has his term of office. Well, the only difference is that a judge who is a member of the Supreme Court is such a judge for life, there is no separate term. So from the moment he becomes such a judge, he can be twenty years old. Therefore, there's a point to the term of office there. In turn, in a situation where the judge of the Court is such a judge of nine years, the introduction of the term of office is quite artificial. And indeed, if this term is three or even four years, as Senator Zientarski has declared here, the problem arises that because it is the President who decides who will be president, he chooses him from among the candidates and at the same time sues various laws to the Constitutional Tribunal, so... There is such a delicate problem of the independence of this President, who, if he wants to be president for another term of office, must take this into account. That's why I'm against this term. But, as I say, this is not a constitutional problem. The second point, Senator President Paszkowski has developed this topic very much. The point is that until now, the law was in force so that in order to be a judge of the Court, one had to have the qualifications of a Supreme Court judge. And there's the Supreme Administrative Court. Why, then, not the qualifications of the Supreme Administrative Court? That is why, Mr President, these qualifications are identical. Yeah, yeah, identical. Mr. Senator did not notice that there was a change in the Act on the Supreme Administrative Court and that qualifications were separated as regards the level of the provincial administrative court and the Supreme Administrative Court. As far as the Supreme Administrative Court is concerned, these qualifications have been tightened, they are identical... It's called superfluum, not necessary. But again, it doesn't create a constitutional delicacy, so let's just say it doesn't bother us. I pay attention to this for the sake of order. Minister Ziobro here, but not only, said: well, there you go, the bill was badly constructed, because it was practically possible to select judges at any time, with great advance. Well, actually, it wasn't a good solution. But what I'm trying to say is that what you're proposing is exactly the same thing. And here's a mistake, because it's said that the 30th day has to be reported... right? Exactly 30 days before. That mistake has already been mentioned here. But even if it were until the 30th day, there wouldn't be a back line either, so to speak, which would also be in advance, I don't know, a two-year, three-year-old, four-year-old... If you're criticizing those solutions, this is where the issue should be, and she's not. This showed that the actual problem was not raised here. We are now moving on to more serious matters, namely to vow as the beginning of our term of office. That's what we've been talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been downloaded here from the Sejm's website... This is the resolution of the Sejm, which is clear... In this case, the resolution concerns Roman Hauser, who was elected judge Or, as Minister Ziobro says, he has been elected, he has been elected, and here it is said: on the choice of a judge of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Sejm pursuant to Article. 194 constitutions and on the basis of the law, etc. elects to serve as Judge of the Constitutional Court of Roman Hauser. Art. 2 says that the term of office of the newly elected Judge of the Court begins on 7 November. On 6 November the term of office of the predecessor ended. It's all settled... [[applause]] ...that's all there is. Why change that? What is it? But it's not over, because there's a change, which is that this vow marks the beginning of the term of office. I am very sorry, but let's look at the matter of Members and Senators. After all, the beginning of the term of office is at the first meeting. By the way, from now on, we're also getting an allowance. [[Voices from the courtroom:...marriage!]] No, no, no. From that moment on, we're getting an allowance... [[Voices from the courtroom: From the vows...]] Ladies and gentlemen, because there's a vow at the first meeting... [[Voices from the hall: But no...]] Okay... [[Talking in the O.R.]] So there's a vow at the first meeting. [[Voice from the room: Yes!]] Yes, sir. The provision which is in the Act on the Rights and Obligations of Members and Senators speaks of the date of the oath, there is a three-month deadline, but this is a deadline for the Member and for the Senator, i.e. if they do not take the oath by that date, they will not take the oath, they will lose their mandate. If the provision in this law only closes in this statement that within 30 days the chosen person must take a vow, then fine This would mean that if this elected judge does not want to take a vow for some reason, he does not come, does not come, refuses, etc., then after 30 days he will lose his mandate and we will start to choose again. But that's not all there is. In addition, it is said that on the day of the vows the term of office begins. Let me put it this way: if President Andrzej Duda did not delay at this moment, he did not violate the Constitution, unfortunately, by dragging on this vow, it could be assumed that this is some practical solution. Unfortunately, only this case has shown that in the future, the president may abuse it calmly, may not take the vows. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Ziobro, whose words I rarely use, and even as I recall, I don't think I've ever done it, but this time I'm going to speak because he was extremely sincere to his colleagues about whether this term is the term of the President, he said, "No, the President is not." Yes, the judge did, the person chosen, but I don't think the president did. So, ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? It means that this bill gives the President really constitutional powers that are not in the Constitution, because the Constitution says that the judges are elected by the Sejm. That's it, period. The president only takes the vows because someone has to take it. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, none other than the Law and Justice on the occasion of this novel, when it was discussed, wondered out loud whether it was a good thing that the president was taking his vows. The president was Bronisław Komorowski at the time. Is it a good thing the president's taking the vows? Wouldn't it be better, because it is the Seym who chooses it before the Marshal of the Seym, before the Seym, that the vow was made? So you could see that it was natural. Someone must, of course, receive this vow. That's what's left of the president. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the President's authority, because if that were to happen, it would turn out that the Sejm also chooses, and the President chooses. That is not the case, so this provision is clearly contrary to the constitution. We'd just have to change the constitution and give the president that kind of power. And finally, the annulment of the choice, because the last provision that's there, is the annulment of the choice. That's what you have to call it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no such practice. These judges were elected on the basis of a properly adopted bill. She may not like it, but she was properly accepted by the Sejm majority, properly published, etc., etc. Therefore, the question arises... Because I understand that there may be a situation in which the bill was adopted, everything is correct, but the bill, according to some part of politicians, citizens, etc., violates the constitution. So what do you do then? That's when the bill just complains. [[To the Court.]] This bill is being complained about. Your marshal wants to stop me now. Yes? [[Yes, Mr. Senator.]] So I end up saying, "I'm complaining about this bill." I've got five more minutes and I'm about to use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u247	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Rulewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm afraid this night is the black night of Polish democracy. It is also a black night of the Senate, because we are sitting under the conditions of facts made, which this correction political group takes after the fact. First, the President handed over the appointment of the Minister of the Special Service Coordinator to a convicted sentence, and, after seeing the obvious error and resistance of the public, he pardoned an innocent crystal man. Ladies and gentlemen, I have no ambition to be crystal, but I would expect this court to exonerate me... [[And there's a court.]] ...to be acquitted by the court, because then I would have reason to believe that I am innocent, not a person from my political camp. [[It's not about that.]] But back to the case, I'm gonna say that now we have the second... This is the President, undoubtedly using obstruction. I don't want to go any further. In respect of compliance with the law, he urges his colleagues to propose a bill and to drop it off to Parliament. That's the first installment of this black November night. But the consequences are more important. Do you imagine that this decision will at best divide the judicial environment? In a worse case, whoever accepts the blocked judicial chain, the judge's toga of the Supreme Court, will be called a collaborator... [[The Constitutional Tribunal.]] Yes, the Constitutional Court. And there is no worse term in Poland than the collaborator. This in turn means lasting consequences for this sensitive element of justice. And can you imagine that besides mercenaries, there's not a single one, and I believe that. You're not gonna take this job out of serious judges? This also means blocking the work of the Constitutional Tribunal. But maybe that's what this is about. Maybe you guys, the point is you don't want to accept 'Cause you have to, we're all gonna have to. The decisions of the independent Constitutional Court? The black night is that this law that destroys the courts is going and this is my basic charge, which may cause surprise to the friendly sometimes, and even often, colleagues on the right To freeze Parliament's work on adopting legislation sanctioning false or even false electoral promises. And here's my strong protest! Here you can reach the inscription on the monument of the fallen shipbuilders. It seems to me that the present power has gone so far that it can be thought that with empty laughter it passes over simple people. Using empty promises, she ignored the feelings of simple people. And this error can only be corrected by introducing false structures for a democratic state, including the Constitutional Tribunal. Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the hall: Simple people have a vote...]] Yes, I accept this sentence and judge it as a just sentence. But I would never take the trouble to reverse this result by creating a new law, e.g. About falsifying elections or false elections. There's not much talk about procedures here. I may be oversensitive, but I am also well aware of the very good practice of my committee, chaired by Professor Sewerinski, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions... And it has not happened that all those willing to give their opinion would not be invited or heard. 'Cause it's our job. I think Senator Borowski told you that at the committee meeting. This is not a job for us, for disputes between us. This work, when it comes to a constitutional complaint, is, as the Constitution says in the article. 191, for many groups, for almost all citizens. And they want to see her. and they should also give an opinion Both the Presidents of the courts, the National Judicial Council, trade unions, churches and, as I have already said, ordinary citizens. The readability of this law cannot be decided only here, on our level. She must also be subject to their opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, that was a strong word for black night. I'm thinking. And I'm so worried. That this is not the only night, because it will be followed by successive laws. But based on the concern that there should be a court for us and for us, the Civic Platform, and there is my small share of it, gives us a chance of rejecting this plea by submitting amendments. Although these amendments will not change the substance of the entire bill, they will remove from it these drastic violations, these changes in the rules of the game, which are observed even on the football field or at the level of the street on which I played. Because there was no one changing the rules of the game during the game. The posts were always in their place, although we played even without a judge. And here we want to rule out the posts and the judge! I therefore call on Members of the right hand to, like other Members or some Members of the Civic Platform, sometimes cross the boundaries of club, party or political loyalty. This happened, among others. The last time there was a legal act on... it was called a sex bill... on gender reconciliation. At that time, contrary to almost everything, we decided in the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions to stop work in order to take advantage of the opinion of the National Judicial Council. Moreover, this opinion, developed as part of the Senate's reflection, became the basis of the presidential veto! Even though the Sejm passed the bill, this opinion became, in part, the basis of President Duda's veto! And that's the reflection. The Polish reflection, not the reflection of November night and not some left-handed June night Please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u249	Thank you, Senator. Senator Piotr Ziientarski, please take the floor. The second vote in the discussion should not be longer than five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u250	Mrs. Marshal, I briefly refer to the senator's last statement... 'Cause I got a letter from the Chief Lawyer's Council that emphasized that I didn't always walk, so to speak, on the line. Sometimes, what was being followed by the Supreme Bar... about this opinion you were talking about, I made a proposal on this matter on the National Council of Courts, and the senator supported it. And thanks to us Because we were absolutely against this bill. This opinion was quickly prepared and submitted, and President Paszkowski knows it. So it's not like we're blindly looking at some instructions here, etc. But, ladies and gentlemen, we must take care of the pupil of democracy, the Constitutional Tribunal, its true independence. Please note the judgments given by the Constitutional Tribunal, which are not popular for the authorities at all! I will mention that it was the Constitutional Tribunal that ordered an increase in the tax-free amount threshold. After all, it was the Constitutional Tribunal that ordered judicial review of the wiretap. That's just an example. But I'm gonna go back to the point, to those charges... This is also said by me partly just now, and now with regard to the issue of vows, the Helsinki Foundation. He says that constitutional doubts as to the appointment of two judges of the Constitutional Tribunal should not lead to the annulment of the election of all five judges of the Tribunal. That's clearly what the foundation says. That's why my questions were about these three judges. As far as the status of the vows is concerned, these 30 days were actually what Senator Borowski was talking about, and I wanted to raise it... There are already doubts as to the legal nature of the obligation for these 30 days. Instructional, as Minister Ziobro says. In fact, this would mean, and this is said by the Helsinki Foundation, granting the President the right of veto to the choice made by the Sejm, as he could delay taking the oath until 30 days have elapsed, which would cancel the decision of the Sejm. That would be incompatible with the article. Paragraph 194. 1 the Constitution, which clearly states that the election of judges is made by the Sejm and that the President has no decision-making powers in this regard. And this says the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, which notabene about these two judges had doubts and thought that an allegation of unconstitutionality could be raised. Then why did you withdraw this request? Why didn't you submit to the Court's review on this matter? And another thing. At the committee meeting it was said that the age was reduced, that it was also unconstitutional. Well, I'm sorry, 65 at the most, plus 9, it's 74 years. Judge of the Supreme Court to 72. What, I mean, age restriction? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask: what age restriction if the judge of the Court can work up to 74 years of age? The judges of the Constitutional Tribunal are the elite of the legal elite. The judges of the Supreme Court are over one hundred, the judges of the Tribunal are fifteen. And the requirements should at least be as far as the Supreme Court judges are concerned. Highest standards. Because this requirement primarily concerns legal experience and not just outstanding legal knowledge. Of course, these are outstanding lawyers. There's no doubt that these are outstanding lawyers, with a great deal of respect... I think that they will also be elected in the future term, and I have no doubt about it. But let us respect the principles of democratic law, respect the constitution, and not create a law that is clearly contrary to the constitution. The two opinions we have, the opinions of the Legal Office and the Helsinki Foundation... [[Mr. Senator...]] ...are speaking unambiguously about the relationship between the Constitution and these proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u251	Thank you very much, senator. You're welcome, Senator Marek Borowski. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I ended up saying that if there are objections to the bill, that's what the Constitutional Tribunal is for. Senator Zientarski mentioned just now that the motion had been received from a group of Members of the Law and Justice. I have to say that I was being harassed by various people who were not in favor of Law and Justice, and asked what this PiS wants. I said he had the right to file a motion. I'll tell you more: it's a good thing he applied for it. We're talking about those two chosen, whose term ends later. This may raise doubts, so the Court should speak in this matter. And all of a sudden, he's not gonna talk. He won't speak because the application has been withdrawn. The argument that Senator Paszkowski put forward here... Why is there a bill? Because the motion has been withdrawn. And why was the motion withdrawn? Because there's a bill. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that's not the answer. After all, this request was deliberately withdrawn. Well, we're intelligent people... It was deliberately withdrawn probably because, I believe, it was feared that the Court's judgment might not be entirely in line with those who applied for it. And there was a concept of creating a law and carrying it out quickly. It's not fair, it's not fair. This proposal should be dealt with by the Court and then we would know what could be done, what could not be done, to what extent, etc. Therefore, do not be surprised that this request has been repeated. Of course it's a weird situation. I'm aware of that. For those who passed this application. But what choice do they have? What are their options? The Court should comment on this matter and speak. And he's gonna say it. The same is true of the new law, the one we are considering today. Well, we had a discussion with Professor Sewerinski... At the committee meeting, Professor Seweryński said: well, you have so many reservations about this law, but after all, the Court will speak on the matter; it can be challenged and the Court will speak. Okay, but if that's the case, then why the deadlines? After all, the threat is that... I will remind you of these terms: 14 days vacathio legis, 7 days to apply for candidates and then a choice. And it may turn out that by the time the Court speaks, there will already be another set of five judges. And some will be chosen, and others will be chosen. If the Court later says that the bill is pending today, then those elected first will have the right to be judges and, in the meantime, the President will swear the latter. Gentlemen, do you even consider that this could happen? And we're all gonna have to deal with that. We're gonna make it, I'm gonna say it hard. A laughing stock of the world. We're not Belarus, we're not Kazakhstan. or even... There are no ambassadors here, but... these things happened in Romania, Bulgaria. Yeah, well, it happened, it happened. or in other less experienced countries with more problems. We've been through this before. We've been through this before. And I really don't see good faith in that. Finally, I have a problem voting on this bill. There's been a lot of... We had laws here on which there were constitutional allegations, but it always happened that, first of all, there were opinions, a few opinions. Secondly, these opinions were different. Some were inclined to those, others to those, and they stood up to the fact that they had voted in favour or voted against. The Court, so to speak, was in reserve and could always speak. Now we have a completely different situation, because neither the Seym nor the Senate were asked... to accept any constitutionalist opinion. I repeat, none. The only opinions were the opinions of the legislative offices, because these must be. She was like that in the Seym, she was like that in the Senate. I have, ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the Parliamentary Legislative Office. It did not communicate with the Senate office on this matter, it created its opinion completely separately, and earlier. And, ladies and gentlemen, there are exactly the same conclusions here. I repeat, exactly the same. And the exact same rules are being challenged as absolutely incompatible with the constitution. It is therefore clear that we have a law here, which is clearly unconstitutional. We have a bill that could lead to terrible chaos. And we've got a situation where they've been refused on purpose. The meetings of such opinions. In this situation, ladies and gentlemen, I can't vote on this at all because the vote, as I see it, means... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Don't worry, I'm almost done. The vote means that this legislative process is legitimized. I cannot legitimize him, so I should warn you that I will not vote, not because I ignore the case, but because I simply have respect for this House and for many of you with whom I have worked for the last four years. And I regret that you've just been dragged into these modes. I know how this works. And of course, Mrs. Marshal, because I know that absence from the vote, or actually no vote, because I will be present. It results in a financial penalty, so please kindly grant it to me, because I will not justify myself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u253	Thank you very much. I'd like to speak with Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u254	Mrs. Marshal... I've already wanted to say Mr. Minister! But, ladies and gentlemen, I would urge Senator Borowski to vote, because if someone wants to break the machine of democracy, they should not give up, but at the same time should not behave. Maybe not as much as... Yeah, so did I. And here in this House, the senators, we should have a position, we have the opportunity, and we should take that position, also by voting. I have no great hope that this bill will be amended. I know that the president is waiting for this bill and that today at 10:00 he will probably want to sign it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, as well as the Minister of Justice, who answered the questions and explained a lot. It gave me here. Or rather, here we are. The possibility to take a stand and present what I think of this law. I thank the rapporteur for his attempt to explain this law, and I also sympathise with him, because it is very difficult to explain the legal right of this law, because the right of this law is only political. But thank you, and for this explanation, very comprehensive, and for the fact that the rapporteur tried to bring the problems of this law closer together, and for the fact that he answered questions, sometimes quite difficult. To me, this bill is a piece of the whole thing. I'm looking at this bill with a certain perspective... I try to have a much wider perspective, like to guess which direction the PiS is going or which direction it wants to go. Well, I read the draft constitution of 2010, the draft constitution of the PiS. And it's clear that the differences in this project are fading away, the threefold division of power is fading. It is a draft constitution modelled on the 1935 Constitution. It covers the differences between legislative, judicial and executive powers. And this bill is one such element, because It's clear to me. The President, who has formal jurisdiction over the judiciary, shall be given powers which go beyond these purely formal matters: he may accept a promise or may not accept it; he may choose and indicate for the second time, for the second term of office of the President, the President of the Court or may not indicate it. And yet he recently intervened in an ongoing trial, acquitted the former head of the CBA, during an unfinished procedure. [[It lasted ten years.]] It wasn't there. [[Voice from the room: Who goes...]] It wasn't there! And that's not just the acquittal problem... not the acquitted one, it's the... [[Voice from the courtroom:...sacrificed.]] ...sacrificed, yes, but also a precedent that shows and indicates that the President will interfere in judicial procedures And will enter with pardon during the court procedure. That's the direction. I think this is the direction that gives the president additional powers regarding the judiciary... And these are all changes... These are the President's additional prerogatives and the change of location of the President. I understand that the PiS does not have the possibility to change the constitution, because there is no constitutional majority, but I do not agree to such a situation that since the PiS does not have a constitutional majority and cannot change the constitution, it will be made fragments... then by ordinary laws it will change the principles of the Constitution. It's very dangerous. I predict that the next step, as was said, after the Constitutional Court, will be the Supreme Court. [[And that's the reason?]] [[How do you know, Mr. Marshal?]] I suspect that there will be an emergency review chamber, an additional chamber, in the Supreme Court, to which the emergency review will be managed by the highest state authorities. That's what I suspect. And that, of course, can be done by changing the Supreme Court Act, but that changes the system of the court, so it's not good that you're going in that direction. I understand that you have a constitutional majority or you create a constitutional majority, you change your constitution, and you make a whole series of changes that the ruling party, the dominant party, thinks you need. But this bill is the first blow to the judiciary, to the most important part of the judicial authority, which has so far been protected not only legally, but also constitutionally. And she is constitutionally protected, because this authority, the Court, is a constitutional body. I regret to say that I do not agree with this, which is why I had to tell you this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Czesław Ryszka made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. I also inform you that the legislative proposals were submitted in writing by Senators Jan Rulewski and Aleksander Pociej, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk together with a group of senators and Senator Piotr Zientarski. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the matter under consideration... [[Voice from the room: No, no, we still have to go to the committee...]] Oh, I'm so sorry. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm about to announce a recess until 9:00 a.m. Now please read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u256	The joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of the requests submitted during the plenary session to the Act amending the Constitutional Tribunal Act, Senate Print No 18, will be held today 15 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2015-11-19-senat-02-2.u257	Ladies and gentlemen, at 9 a.m., we will resume the session before the vote. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 2 minutes 08]]
