ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u1	Thank you. Good morning again. First of all, I would like to apologise for Mr Rodas Chapela's assistance for a family problem that we want to have a positive development. We started with the round of questions with an oral answer from the President of the Council of Galicia. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the impact of the economic policy of the Government of Galicia on the resolution of the socio-working problems of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u2	We begin with the question of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u3	Mr President, we applauded the new contracts in Navantia, and we would still applaud more if the Navantia contracts had not only occurred on election evenings, the workers would be much happier. [[Murmurs.]] In any case, the relevant thing is that with these contracts you start to approach employment figures in the naval sector of 2008. The legislation ends and you in Ourense were sincere, in the company of Baltar announced more of the same, no new idea, no hope. Even Mr. Rajoy considered it appropriate to apologize for the photo - business of companies, of course -. His balance, 150,000 employed less, 67,000 unemployed more. With you unemployment has grown 42% - EPA data, one third of them with more than two years of unemployment. Do you offer any hope to that quarter of millions of people of working age who have no chance and who at this step will never have it? We are a country with 900,000 assets at present and a quarter of a million people who want to work and don't find any opportunities, and with you it seems they can give up all hope. A tenth of the indefinite jobs have disappeared, a sixth of the full-time jobs have disappeared, a fifth of the temporary jobs have disappeared, a half of the unemployed receive no benefit. And you with your characteristic insensitivity offers to go on like this, more of the same. Face the problem, Mr. President, I know you don't like real people, talk to people who have problems. If you had done what most people do, for example, to go shopping, you'd be surprised... [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Feijóo, if you had entered your usual life... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u4	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u5	...in a hypermarket or in a supermarket it would be surprising that the faces on the linear boxes vary on each visit. It's not because there's no biblical plague, it's because if you're signing Leonine contracts, 40-hour contracts distributed in the month, 18-hour contracts to make intensive on the weekend, one-day contracts, one-week contracts. [[Murmurs.]] Those people, Mr. President, will soon not generate pensions, because they won't have the minimum price time, and they will always be people subject to that dependence. It is happening in trade and in the hostel for wages of 200, 300 and 400 euros. If you stepped on the street you would sometimes find titles that chain 90 contracts every year - 90 contracts, Mr. President - and that if you are women you have no right to maternity leave.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u7	You're here diverging about birth, but your work policy is totally contrary to women's ability to commit to maternity. And what you're offering us is to multiply these situations of labor exploitation longer?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u8	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Méndez Romeo, I will transfer your complaint to the Australian Navy for campaigning for the People's Party of Galicia. [[Applause]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, candidate, Your Honor, a few months ago you were asking about the government's economic policy. Today you seem to recognize that if there's an economic policy, even if you don't like it, we've made progress. What would be necessary is to know what their economic policy is, that is, what the economic policy of the Socialist Party of Galicia is. Because until now, the Socialist Party in Galicia, we only know one proposal: no, but not a generalized one, but a non-selective one: not most Galician people who represent this group. Because when it comes to other parties, you have no doubt about calling their policies bad, even their superiors within the Socialist Party of Galicia qualify them as pessimos, like the worst; and yet you support them. Mr. Méndez Romeo, you are about to lose your ideas. Mr. Méndez Romeo, the Socialist Party in Galicia is about to lose ideas and, above all, to lose memory. Now it turns out that it bothers you that GDP - i.e., the Greek economy - has grown more than since 2008 and more than the vast majority of the countries of Europe; it bothers you, Your Honor, that in the last year unemployment in Galicia has dropped 47,800 people; it bothers you that in the last year social security affiliations have risen more than 33,000; it disturbs you, ultimately, that today we have less unemployment, almost four points less than a year ago. But I'm saying you're out of memory because you don't seem to remember that you were a member of the bipartisan government. That Government of what you were part of assumed that the fall in the economy of Greece in the last year of its Government had been 3.6%, that unemployment in the last year of its Government had risen to 54,000 people and that membership in social security in the last year of its Government had dropped more than 50,000 people. Look, Your Honor, when you tell me about data, you bring what you want, you don't care!, if you come here not to ask me but to listen to your group; but this, as it is natural, is administrator of your own times. But look, Your Honor, when I presented myself to the elections in that year 2012, in the first trimester that I was president of the Board, against this first trimester of 2016, today there are 60,000 unemployed less than when I started the legislation. Today there are 62,300 unemployed less - yes! - in the registry offices, and according to EPA 60,000 unemployed less; according to EPA, 34,500 more social security affiliations. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, watch who makes the numbers in his group, it won't be that they're working for another candidate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u11	Mr. Méndez Romeo, these are the numbers, these are the numbers which I have just reflected. [[Applause]] So, Your Honor, I know Galicia's first problem is unemployment. [[Applause]] But I also have a strong record that with the economic policies of the Spanish Socialist Labour Party right now, Mr. Méndez Romeo, unemployment would not be the problem, unemployment would be the situation of the vast majority of the population occupied in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u13	Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u15	Mr. President of the Galician Council, since he talks about elections, he can order his cops to stop doing records. Or do you intend to repeat the dirty 2009 election campaign? [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] You're talking about the disparagement of the employment figures, EPA, EPA, which is made by your government. You have 150,000 people less working in Galicia and 67,000 unemployed than the day you arrived, that's your balance. And you're probably being deceived by your advisers when they do the papers to you, you can terminate them that no one will regret in this country. And one more fact, Mr. President, 40,000 homes in Greece without any kind of income, that's your inheritance, and you're offering more of it. Let me tell you something else. You know, Mr President, that there are university graduates with two languages and others who have experience with employment and service contracts to do simultaneously as pawns, administrative and technical?, people who know that schedules in addition to flexibles are as extensible as necessary and without right to anything. Is that the job model for the most qualified? A recent report from an entity of those that we all read, of great prestige, speaks of Galicia and says, "less investment than the average of Spain, less business confidence, worse consumer confidence." Data last week, Mr President, are indicators of the general concern of citizens, who consider that we are not in the right direction, and that when Spain starts recovering not only from GDP, but also from employment, in Galicia we are not even on that path of growth, nor on that path of employment, unemployment is on track. You have spent 70,000 million euros with different priorities not to fight unemployment or to promote investment. You kept the current spending intact, but cut health care, cut social benefits, cut dependency, cut education, and even cut employment care policies. Is that your model? You did what you did was suppress...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u16	Finish, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u17	...thousands of jobs in areas where people have the greatest need; today we have the greatest inequality in Spain and the greatest distance with the Spanish average. Are you aware that this is a failure?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u18	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Mr. Méndez Romeo, you will agree with me that no one here arrests people. Esbiro is a sheriff in charge of arresting people, and he spoke of a cop. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, yes! [[Protests.]] Yes! Mr. President's reply. Shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, I will give you the data you must request in the group. In the first trimester of the year 2013 - this second legislation - the EPA indicated unemployment in 287,000, now 227,000, 60,000 minus. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There are some who talk about busy people, social security affiliations, 908,000 people; today 943,000 people, that is, 34,500 people who are more members of social security. Mr. Méndez Romeo, if you want to talk more about the quality of employment, 75 percent of employees in Galicia have indefinite employment - 75 percent -. Your Honor, the indefinite contract went up to Galicia last year... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u20	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u21	...more than 6,800 people. Full-time contracts went up in Galicia in the last year 48,000 people. Mr. Méndez Romeo, let me see who does the data to you, believe me, I have a special appreciation for you, but as we keep working, it gives me the feeling that they're not working for you. But, finally, that's a matter for you to raise. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Méndez Romeo, what is your job proposal? Look, in Andalusia the unemployment rate is 10 points more than in Galicia; in Extreme the unemployment rate is 9.9 points more than in Galicia; in Castile A Mancha, 7.3 points more than in Galicia; even in Valencia, which are in the Mediterranean, almost 4 points more than in Galicia. In all these places governs the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. [[Murmurs.]] Is this what you propose to us, Mr. Méndez Romeo? [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u22	Quiet, please. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Galician, be quiet. Quiet, please! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u23	Look, Mr. Méndez Romeo, we have made a responsible control of public accounts, you know why, to improve public services, to increase health, to increase dependence, to increase social services and to increase education. What we cut, Your Honor, were the offices, the cars, the counsellors; that's what you know enough. [[Applause]] [[Interruptions.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, yesterday the councillor of Fairy appeared in the Chamber, posed a strategic plan... [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u24	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u25	Look, Your Honor, we left a stable Galicia, a Galicia with confidence and a Galicia with certainty. Do you know why, Your Honor? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because we have more futures and, in addition, because we have more additional resources. Your Honor, Galicia has a surplus of responsibility that we will invest in the future of Galicia, in the future of the children and the children of Greece, in the future of the education of Galicia, which is the future of democracy, in the future of public health, in the future of people... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u26	Finish, please. Quiet, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u27	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u28	...which, to say, we have economic policy from 2009 to 2016, and we leave economic policy written until 2020. Today prestigious economists have just said that it is the best strategic plan of the Greek economy that ever made a government, I hope you take a proposal and take ideas from these economists. Mr Méndez Romeo, look, the results of our economic policy is that in Galicia we are growing, that in Galicia unemployment is falling, that in Galicia social security memberships are rising, that exports are rising, that industry is rising, that consumer confidence is rising, that industrial production is rising, and that we lower taxes and even eliminate taxes. With this economic policy, I will run as a candidate for President of the Union. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u29	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u30	...in the future of the country. Your Honor, that surplus of responsibility we're going to invest in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u31	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u32	And tomorrow at the board of directors, we started distributing the surplus of responsibility. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons for the resignation of the Government of Galicia to request the modification of the system of self-financing to improve the financing of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u34	If my economic policy had dropped membership and unemployment, then I'd introduce myself to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party's primary.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u35	Question by Mr Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Feijóo, in my view, a symptom of the many anomalies that exist in our country is that a key issue for Galicia, such as the system of self-financing, is practically absent from the political debate, but above all, Mr Feijóo, it is an anomaly that is absent from the agenda of his Government, because the system of self-financing is an essential issue. It depends on the financing of the services and the powers we have transferred, the financing ultimately of education, health, social services, of those services which your Government has worked so hard to cut. As you know, the current system had to be reviewed before December 2014, but the Rajoy Government decided to violate the law, and while other communities shouted in the sky claiming its review, its Government, as usual, has just accepted the Spanish Government's dictates. Look, the BNG Parliamentary Group proposed to set up a study commission; you said no. We are in favour of your Government to present its proposals to this Parliament, to establish a dialogue with all the groups, to see if it was possible to establish a country position, and you said no. His Government, ultimately, neither thinks nor talks nor realizes his proposals. In a crucial debate for the country, Galicia is absent by the mouth of the current Government. As you are also absent from the debate on local funding, Mr Feijóo. The Greek municipalities are in line for participation in the state's income. They receive almost 20% less per inhabitant than the average of the municipalities of the common regime communities. But your government has done nothing to demand a review of the local funding system. The last excuse is that the central government is now in office. But, Mr. Feijóo, which is in function, which has been in function for seven years in terms of self-government is the Government you preside over. In seven years, zero skills claimed, zero transfers achieved. It's going to complete the second empty self-government legislation. Never in the history of our autonomy has there been a more disastrous balance for our self-government, Mr. Feijóo. And there is no self-government without a financing model that ensures our autonomy and our financial adequacy. So, Mr Feijóo: why did you refuse to request the modification of the system of self-financing to improve Galician funding? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u37	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Jorquera, reforming the system of funding for autonomous communities is undoubtedly a reform that needs to be tackled. We don't say it now, is that we have always been against the current model of funding for autonomous communities, as you well remember. Why? Because he's got two main eyves: The first in its design, because the current financing system of autonomous communities did not object to the principle of covering the real costs of public services, no, refused to try to maintain the Government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero and the Catalan Tripartite at that time. You will remember that they reached an agreement between the Republican Left of Catalonia, the Catalan Socialist Party and the Spanish Socialist Party in Madrid, and I remember it very well. Your Honor, besides that it was simply a political pact to maintain a tripartite government with Catalan independenceists, because the evolution of that system was not a correct evolution based on the figures reached and the expectations met. It has clearly demonstrated a political system exclusively to resolve an agreement with Catalan independence and be able to be the Socialist Party ruling Catalonia. What was the position of the Government of Unity? Look, Your Honor, you know that if we didn't sign that agreement like the rest of the autonomous communities we were facing two penalties: the first, that we had to return in a single year the 2,200 million euros that left us the Bipartite in Galicia and the second, that the additional resources for dependency would not come to Galicia or any other autonomous community that didn't assign the model. So, Your Honor, I can't agree more with you: it's an incorrect model, it's an unfair model, it's a model that doesn't finance the actual cost of services and therefore it's a model that needs to be rectified. Look, Your Honor, it doesn't count on a service map, nor at the actual cost of the services we provide. And we're far from saying what you're saying that nothing we've done, on the contrary, we've all prepared to realise what the position of the Autonomous Community is; but it's not a political position, which too, but it's a technical and solid posture. Your Honor, we know what the impact of health is, we know what the health costs of the older 65s are, but we also need to start to see what the health cost of the older 85s is, and we also need to evaluate the health cost of the older 95s. All this is what we have to talk about, Your Honor, and that's why we're not going to talk about independence, we're going to talk about people. And we don't want a financing system for a territory, we want a financing system for the Greeks and the Greeks on equal footing that the Catalans and the rest of Spain's cities and people. [[Applause]] Your Honor, we have not been stopped, believe me not; we have continuously analyzed the evolution of the system. The Fiscal and Financial Policy Council has our calculations from a solid technical point of view. We are participating and participating in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which is holding preparatory meetings for the new system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u39	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u40	And, of course, do you know what we have to do, Mr. Jorquera? Establish contacts with other autonomous communities, because we already know what it's about. If some do with the Government of Spain, they'll do what they've already done: deal with the rich and despise the rest of Spain. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, I'll give you some data: Self-government. In his 2009 autonomy program, he criticized the previous Government because - I quote it textually - "you can only show twelve steps even if there are pending themes that require an additional effort". Seven years later that additional effort of what he was talking about was to demand zero transfers. Local funding. The current system has a direct impact on the neighborhoods of the Greek municipalities having worse services, where the per capita public expenditure of our local institutions is 817 euros, compared to 1,048 on the state average. This Parliament, at the initiative of the BNG, agreed to urge the Board to request its review and put forward a proposal for a country, Mr Feijóo. It was in April 2015, more than a year ago, long before the current Central Government was in office. But Junta has broken the deal and our neighbours continue to suffer this discrimination. But let's talk about self-financing now, Mr Feijóo. Indeed, I remember, when the current review was approved, it was a BNG spokesman in the Congress of Deputies, I've already told you in this chamber. When this review was voted on, do you know how many German Members of Congress voted against? Two, the two of the Galician Nationalist Block, the People's Party, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Look, do you know how much money Galicia has lost since the entry into force of the current system, Mr. Feijóo? Some EUR 8.464 million, the equivalent of the non-financial expenditure of a budget year, or the cuts accumulated by its Government since 2009. Of course it is partly due to the fall of the collection due to the crisis, but above all it is due, Mr. Feijóo, to a system of ruinous financing for Galicia, which does not guarantee our financial capacity or our autonomy, and makes us dependent on transfers from the reasoning state. And you in this matter are neither expected nor expected. Look, why didn't you file the review? It's just that you're not answering that question. Why didn't you demand your review? Do you say you have everything prepared? And is it normal in a central question for the country that says you have everything prepared and continue without exposing your proposals to this chamber on a country issue and submitting them to dialogue with all groups? Mr. Feijóo, you have just been declared a candidate flying the flag of Galeguism, but in the matter of self-government, as one journalist said, recalling a song...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u43	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u44	...of Carlos Puebla: "You arrived and ordered to stop."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u45	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Jorquera, songs aside, I don't think it's very smart to start a new funding system when revenue from public administrations is falling free. I suppose you, who is a sensible person, wouldn't consider starting to negotiate a matter at the time when it lessens the collection of a remarkable form of VAT and income tax for physical persons. [[Murmurs.]] And that's why prudence advised not to start this process, and much less start when there's nothing else and nothing but an independent threat that if we don't give them the money they ask for, they go away. Mr. Jorquera, could you tell me how much money we owe Catalonia? Exactly, how much do you have to transfer Galicia to Generalitat's ark so they don't go? I say so, Your Honor, because you were in the electoral campaign with the Republican Left of Catalonia. And left Republican of Catalonia was the one who signed the Catalan Tripartite Agreement with Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, with which you were so opposed from 2009, that PSOE was no longer necessary in Galicia because they lost the elections, but it was still the same as you always voted from 2005 to 2009 because they worked here and ruled together. But that's what the Greeks know. We remember the BNG. BNG has had different phases in his history, Mr. Jorquera. Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's phase was not the best in the history of the BNG, and so at this moment there are some difficulties, which I hope they will solve. Mr. Jorquera, when I entered the Union we owed the Government of Spain 2,200 million euros, which would have to pay in five years. The first year we were discounted 450 million euros. That was the inheritance, Your Honor. Not only did we manage to postpone ten years, but then we managed to have that debt settled at twenty years, and now we managed not to pay that debt. That's why, Mr. Jorquera, I expected no congratulations, but at least... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, Your Honor, it's not a joke. Because if Galicia had to pay the 450 million euros every year, today we wouldn't have the potential for health care, education and social services. That's why, Mr. Jorquera, I don't think this is a joke. Speaking of money is no joke, gentlemen. And I refuse to start a financing process with the independent threat of Catalonia, with the independent threat of Navarre, and now with those confluences, fluent or I don't know what the Senate is talking about between those of Podemos and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Mr. Jorquera, our hand won't shake. It is possible that in the forthcoming legislation the People's Party and the BNG will be able to reach a lot of agreements in the field of financing. I have a lot more hope to reach agreements with the BNG than to reach agreements with the Weird Tides and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Nothing else and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of ::G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Lefta, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia regarding the situation of the agricultural and rural environment of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u48	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u49	Good morning. Yes, Mr. Feijóo, because it seems very good to me that I don't have that hope, because I don't want you to have a frustration; of course, we won't have any agreement with you. You were talking about puppies, bipartite puppies--you said-- Pufo is what you leave, Mr. Feijóo. When you arrive at the Government, the debt of the Galician Union, the public debt of the Galician Union meant 1,200 euros per Greek and Galician, and you will leave the Government with 3,600 euros for every Greek and Galician public debt, since it already exceeds 10,000 million euros. That's a fag, Mr. Feijóo. And if it was for at least to develop productive sectors, quality jobs and prevent people from leaving the country, it would be well used, but none of that was true. The starting data for this new Strategic Plan is that there is no data that is today better than when you did the previous one in 2010. They're all worse. Not to mention the horrendous mistakes of their forecasts, which should be taken into account and which citizens should take into account when the election campaign arrives and make promises and fantastic prophecies again. And in rural, too, all indicators are worse, Mr. Feijóo. Seven years after management made in Feijóo, reality, but above all expectations, are much worse, and you insist on applying the same recipes that have produced abandonment, aging and desertification of rural areas, destruction of primary sectors. Since you arrived, Mr. Feijóo, you have destroyed one out of three jobs in the agricultural and forestry sector. There were 70,600 busy, and by the end of 2015 there were 45,000. 70 % of the dairy farms that close are Welsh. The yellow gandres have been receiving the state's cheapest milk for more than two years and under production costs, etc., etc. There's no positive data, Mr. Feijó. The useful agrarian surface, the industrialization of the field, everything is a set of failures. And a few days ago, tragic events have occurred in this country. There were three cases in Friol, Chantada and Boiro where they either let the cows die or almost. In a country where this animal is a totemic animal, people who have been living for many years looking after cows, who depended on their livelihood to take good care of cows, have let them die or almost die. And these facts, as much as you have in decontextualized them, show the despair of these people, show the hardness of the situation they are living. The deaths of the cows, you think, are isolated, just like the cases of corruption of the People's Party. We don't say that this is going to be generalized, or that it's being generalized. It's very complicated for someone to get to these extremes of letting hungry cows die, it's very difficult, we know. But what is indisputable is that they are significant facts that represent a reality of our rural and our livestock. And we know you're not a champion of empathy, but make an effort at once to put yourself in these people's skin and make decisions so they stop being in absolute despair. Finally, I'm asking you two questions from this collection that will probably be unanswered. Would these cases happen, Mr. Feijóo, if, instead of two years in a row, they were paid under production costs, it was the other way around and these gainees had charged these two years worth of prices for their milk? Would it be the same, Mr. Feijóo? Do you think so? And what positive data does the balance of its management in the Brazilian countryside drop? I hope they don't become the collection of questions you don't deserve to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u50	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u51	It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the people of Podemos are in no way in favour of agreeing a joint proposal from Galicia for the new financing system. It's logical, ladies and gentlemen, it's logical, because in order for you to make a deal in Galicia, you have to talk to Professor Churches. [[Applause]] Your Honor, speaking of public debt on the part of Podemos in the House is a surprising thing. When we made the budget this year, they wanted to increase the public debt of the Autonomous Community by 200 million euros, and now they say we implement the debt. Look, Your Honor, we have less public debt than the rest of the autonomous communities, almost 5.7 points below the average autonomous communities. If we had the same public debt as the rest of the autonomous communities, we would have EUR 3,000 million more than public debt. That would mean 85 million euros more interest per year. For those 85 million euros what we want is to spend them, invest them in rural areas. Look, I'm used to almost everything. But we can already start to go beyond the limits. In the previous investment session, they accused the Government of homicides, and now also of being guilty of letting some gangsters kill their cows. Look, over there, Your Honor. As you can see, the Podemos know so much about the countryside that we're worried about. Mr. Pablo Iglesias knows both the Greek rural, well, better said, Mr. Pablo Iglesias, the only green he saw was the lawn of the Complutensian and he doesn't know it's the Greek rural. [[Applause]] That's why, Your Honor, give me exactly what you've been telling me since your party. Look, Your Honor, we did what we did was maintain the funds of the common agricultural policy. We did what we did were new laws for rural areas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u52	Quiet, quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u53	We did what we did is charge them less taxes... [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, don't go with you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u54	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u55	...to cattle and farmers. We did what we did was invest more in innovation. We did what we did was invest more in modernising farms. Your Honor, when you tell me if I can give you some positive data, because look, right now, it's the youngest year you're asking to join the rural environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u56	Mr. Garcia, Mr. Garcia, be quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u57	And secondly, Your Honor, this is the year where we have more applications to make investments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u58	Mr. Garcia, I'll call you in order. The question is from Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u59	...in the agricultural industry. I think it's two positive data. We have 757 applications for young people to join the rural environment and more than 2,200 applications to improve livestock holdings. We now have EUR 155 million of investments in the agribusiness sector, which we are assessing to obtain the possibilities of aid under European legislation. Look, Your Honor, when you talk to me about the rural sector, I want to tell you that we are concerned about the rural sector, no doubt, how we were concerned about the naval sector, how we were concerned about the automotive sector, and how I am convinced that, in the same way that we overcome the pitfalls in the naval sector and in the automotive sector, we will also overcome the pitfalls in the dairy sector. Nothing else. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u61	Yes, I see you, Mr. Feijóo, are a coward, and two more questions will pass without answering the collection of which the president of the board is unable to answer, because he has no answer. He's a coward and a incapable. You're not here to make promises, Mr. Feijóo, it takes two legislatures, what you're asked is the balance of your policies already made, your promises are useless. The promises already made in 20092012, and we see reality. Your promises are worthless, you have no credibility, Mr. Feijóo. It's like that driver who's going down the highway in the opposite direction and says it's the other driver who's going in the opposite direction. He's the only one who doesn't see the desperate situation of the peasants in the Italian countryside, Mr. Feijóo. His word is worthless. And don't chill, don't chill when he talks about these situations, and don't start talking about Podemos or Paul Churches. He's not talking to Paul Iglesias or Podemos. You're talking to Anton Sánchez, who knows the countryside, who lives from the countryside and who has... please, Mr. President, apply the same criterion to them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Don't chill with the rural situation, Mr. Feijóo. He'd be able to overcome himself. It would be beyond the level of indignity, which is already very high, Mr. Feijóo. Don't chill and answer what you're asked. Tell me a date where the country and the country are better than when you arrived. Tell me if these cases happened, and which are the tip of the iceberg of the desperation of the sector, they would happen if milk prices were worthy prices to cover at least the costs of production, and for which you did nothing, they were incapable and unwilling to rescue them. You're telling me about incorporating boys. Mr Feijóo, the latest data tell us that 4.68 % of landowners are under 40 years of age, less than 5 % are young farmers and 60 % of the agricultural population is 60 years old or older. Isn't this an emergency situation, Mr. Feijóo? Aren't you wiping out the agricultural sector or the primary sectors, Mr Feijóo? Stop frivolizing, don't say any more promises, talk about your balance, which is what's on you now. You haven't just arrived and your promises are useless, Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u63	I won't let you chill with these dramatic cases of people who are suffering from their disability when they've done their homework...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u65	...and you left them at the stake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u66	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u67	Look, Your Honor, when you say we have not fulfilled our commitments to the rural sector, we have assumed the commitment that there is no taxes in rural areas, and since January 1, 2016, for the first time in Galicia's history, no one pays a euro for buying or selling, nor for permuting a single farm, a single farm, a single pile, a single property in rural areas; neither one, Your Honor. [[Applause]] When you talk to me about the loss of farms in Galicia, we actually lost 4.9. But you're hiding that in Castile and León they lost nearly 6 percent. And you're hiding that, for example, in Catalonia they lost more than 5.3 percent. Your Honor, when you talk to me about the loss of farms, what you're hiding is that during the four years of the Bipartite half of farms that closed were 1,700 farms a year, 1,700 farms a year. And we have a legislation where they've closed down 70% less. When you talk to me, Your Honor, you want to hide the reality of the agriturismo, just because you're the only one who wants to dye the country black. Your Honor, we are producing 15 percent more milk in recent years, and we have the highest milk production in the country's history. How can you say we're producing less milk, Your Honor? How can you say this and stay calm? [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, when you tell me about the prices - I make the prices available to the President of the House - these are the prices, Your Honor. The prices I found myself when I got to Galician board were 25 cents per litre, 25 cents per litre. I'll give you exactly the price. In April, when I took possession, 25.9. Now the prices are low, but they're at 28 cents liter Mire, Your Honor, I know you don't want to listen, because you don't listen to them as part of their democratic techniques. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, we have 1,186 million euros for the Italian countryside, we managed to negotiate in Brussels, and have nearly 1.2 billion euros for the German countryside. So, Your Honor, when you talk to me about the countryside and tell me that Pablo Iglesias isn't your boss, who tries to convince? I say that Podemos has no proposal for agricultural policy in Galicia, no knowledge of Galicia or interest in Galicia or ever...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u68	Quiet, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u69	...he didn't even work for Galicia, man! He's never worked or going to work for Galicia. [[Applause]] Never, Your Honor, will never work for Galicia. And that's why, Your Honor, look, for a long time we had to hear that the People's Party was the rural party. Yes, sir, we are the party of the Italian countryside. Most of us were born in the villages of Galician rural, we were proud to be part of the German rural party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Your Honor, yes, yes... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u71	...you have no doubt. Look, rural riding is a priority...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u73	...and the same way we fought the ship, which you said would sink all the shipyards, [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u74	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u75	...that we also fight with the automobile, even though you don't want to extend PSA Peugeot Citroën... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u76	Finish, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u77	Look, with all due respect, as we get to know each other, we're starting to see that the only things that matter to you are the tracks where seats are planted. Your Honor, you are permanently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u78	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u79	...moving the landmarks of the tracks, between Podemos, Left United, Tides, Anova, AGE, etc., etc. Stop planting seats and we'll be serious about the countryside, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We continue with point 4 of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. [[Mr. Fajardo pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Interruptions.]] Mr. Fajardo, Mr. Fajardo, I also tell you, silence! G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Ferreiro Vidarte and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation, diagnosis and socio-health care of dementia, and in particular the disease of Alzheimer in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u81	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u82	To formulate the non-law proposal, you have the floor of Mrs Ferreiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u83	Good morning, President. Thank you, President, and good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u84	Excuse me a moment. There's a lot of noise here. Please, let me ask for some respect on the subject of Alzheimer's. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u85	Thank you, President. We have brought here a serious problem, of course, a serious socio-health problem. The theme of Alzheimer's, and of dementia in general, is not a theme of a disease that heals and points, the theme of Alzheimer's is a subject where health factors and social factors intervene. People, in general, who have a dementia, are people who are gradually becoming disabled, who are gradually losing memory, who are gradually losing autonomy, who are going to stop recognizing the family for a lifetime. People who have little resources in general, people who normally live alone, couples, parents and children. People who live, in some circumstances, with a minimum pension. People, perhaps, that the caretaker is 80 years old and the sick is 82. People who, for reasons of work, or because families are no longer so long, have no one to care for them. In this sense, the Italian government of the PP has done quite little and it has all the task to do, so it seems to us that it is a very serious topic, which is a socio-health challenge and that we have to put all the points of view in the treatment of this disease. There's not even reliable data about the people who are affected. In Galicia there are more than 100,000 people, in general, with neurovegetative dementia. In any case, more than 40% of all dementias are generally diseased in Alzheimer's. There are more than three and a half million people in Spain, and there are over 44 million people in the world who suffer from Alzhéimer. In the year 2050 it was 115 million people. Fewer children are born and people live better and last longer. So the longer we live, the more sick and sick of Alzhéimer there will be. There is no data, as I said, and they are not reliable. The only data we have can be from family associations of Alzheimer's patients or the Galician Society of Hieria and Gerontology. By the way, this society says that people diagnosed with Alzheimer's have, at least, been suffering from disease for more than a year. It's too late when you diagnose these people. At first there are very mild symptoms, which are increasing, but it's very difficult to diagnose them. They call it silent disease, and until the symptoms are there, you don't know what this disease is like. This disease has no cure, and besides, in the social security device, there are no professionals. There are still hospitals that don't have Hieria Service, there are still health centers or specialized centers that don't have hieria services, so a set of measures are required so they can be diagnosed as soon as possible. There's a lot of research on this subject, a lot of research that they're trying to advance in the diagnosis so that it's done as soon as possible, so that at least the research leads to drugs that can delay the onset of the disease. In this sense, the Greek Government has recently presented a study in which it will participate, where it specifically told the newspapers that Galicia led Alzhéimer's investigation. Look, I think it's very nice that you investigate, and it's extremely necessary, but you have to see which is the most priority. If this study was really so transcendent, it might be worth investing the money they invest, but as this research there are hundreds of them throughout Spain and abroad. Therefore, I would have to value this Greek Government, as little as it has done with regard to Alzhéimer's disease, if those more than 7 million euros can be devoted to launching the minimum services that Alzhéimer's sick people need. The PP government has shown that it is not up to what they call the 21st century epidemic: it has no plans, it has no resources, it has nothing. You really have nothing but good statements about these people. If it wasn't for Alzhéimer's sick relatives' associations, these sick people would be totally abandoned. You're discharging all responsibility in family associations. To begin with, not only do families care for the sick, but they also run programs, they set up services and they set up resources that really should be entrusted to the Government of Wales. Galician Wales has no public services for which it is intended to distribute four grants for its own associations to create services and launch programs. Setting up services is a unique and exclusively task of the Government of Greece, and it is not doing so; it is leaving functions in this field and is using family associations as a cheap workforce. I don't think there's any right to this. If it has been done so much to reduce the deficit, I would like to know that the relatives and the sick - if they could talk in many cases - that we have no deficit but that they are neglected or poorly cared for most of the Alzhéimer's patients. Look, there's no public service where you can stimulate these people who start with the first damage. The direct cost of Alzhéimer's patients in Spain is 22 % of the total costs, and the indirect costs amount to 80 %; and at this 80% are the caregivers of Alzhéimer's patients. What's going on in other countries? Well in other countries it happens that direct cost is three times as much as in Spain. And in the hours dedicated by the family to the sick, Spain triples France and Germany. Why is this happening? Because, of course, the German Government is saving a lot of budget by charging families with this attention. I wanted to highlight and acknowledge the vast and important work of Alzhéimer's family associations, not only as support, but also as service managers. As I said before, if it weren't for them, they'd really be abandoned. We defend that family associations must be strengthened, but the role of these associations is to promote policies that favor the larger number of people affected. However, this autonomous community is where families care more for Alzheimer's patients than for other services. We have the families that care for the sick of Alzheimer's exhausted; we have the families that have no good health, and soon we'll have really people who will be sick the two members of the couple or several members of the family. Let's wait and see what happens in a few years if you don't take measures. For all this, this group proposes, first of all, that an urgent study be made of the actual situation of dementia, and in particular of Alzheimer. I believe that the first thing this government needs to know is the people who are affected, and to prepare a plan of attention for health and social coordination in the diagnosis, and also to strive for coordination in diagnoses to be both primary care and social services. And finally, a very important point that I think we can't give up on, is to propose a new model of people-centred socio-health care. At the moment, all the resources that exist are centered on the structure. They are centers where the sick are put, well day centers, good residential centers, where what matters is the general structure, and not the integration of social services and health services. The model we propose is an interdisciplinary model, where people are jointly cared for as individuals, social needs and health needs are met.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u87	This is the model that we find essential not to give up. I hope that all members of the Government and Members of Parliament will take account of, take a little sensitivity, so that they can really meet the needs of this collective, which affects us all. Today we can be ourselves and the next day they'll be others. Which more and less has any family close by, and not all have the possibility--as Mr. Rajoy has--to bear the expenses of his father's caregivers in the general budgets of the state. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Ferreiro. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mrs. Ferreiro, I agree practically with a lot of things about your speech, I think Mr. Rajoy's reference has survived. And there's also something that surprises me extraordinarily: here you're talking about the need to do public research in Galicia, and when we start a public research in Galicia, it seems bad to you. I don't think that's exactly consistent with what you're talking about here. [[Applause]] We're talking about Alzhéimer's disease, and Alzhéimer's disease is still a great stranger to the number of incognites it poses. Its origin is unknown; the clinic is very variable and difficult to distinguish from other dementias. You don't have a diagnosis of certainty today. There's not one treatment that cures or delays the onset of the disease. You're talking about epidemiological studies, which are absolutely variable according to who makes them. One I managed says there's 7.5 million in Europe, which makes it hard to believe that there's 3.5 million in Spain. Indeed, the Federation of Family Associations speaks of 70,000 in Galicia. I'd have to see him. What is true is that a detailed neuropsychological evaluation may reveal mild cognitive difficulties up to 8 years before the diagnosis of the disease. And they call the experts, is that the beginning of Alzhéimer, or are they different clinical paintings? That's why the Eritrean Association speaks of a year, and probably longer time. That seems logical, knowing the natural history of disease. We share, from the People's Group, the importance of caregivers and family associations as support for the sick and their families. What I don't think is fair is that you're coming to claim that the Government of Galicia is using associations as cheap labor. A statement that is very in line with what we have usually seen in this Parliament by opposition groups, wanting to pass on to the population an unrealistic apocalyptic situation in Galicia to wear out the Government and, above all, to wear out the President. That's not true. I have to say that since the Social Policy Council, an important and decisive bet has been made by a new model of attention to people with Alzheimer, visualizing the collective and specializing in the response it had brought to their needs. The Government of the Galician People's Party was able to approve a portfolio of services specific to people with Alzhéimer that defines different care services: diurna, nocturnal, residential, home aid and promotion of personal autonomy, specific to these people. a singular wallet and it was developed in direct collaboration, and in a consensual manner, with the Alzheimer Alzheimer Associations Federation of Galicia. Currently, 424 public care facilities are on a daily basis for this collective, representing 81% more than in 2009. Ten of the thirteen centers with public daily care squares in Galicia are owned by the Junta de Galicia, and seven of these are being managed through administrative concession by Alzhéimer associations in different localities of Galicia. All this without forgetting the direct economic support, through collaboration agreements with these entities, from 2016 to 2015 the agreement with Fagal increased by 260 %, or also the signing of an annual convention for the formation of caregivers. All of this shows the strong support of the People's Party Government for associations related to Alzheimer's disease. And in relation to the proposed part, we tabled an amendment that we think complements its text better. In the first point, "to carry out an urgent study of dementia," we added the phrase, "and with sufficient information to ensure the validity of its results." I don't personally share urgent studies, I think the urgency should never define the quality of the study, which has to be broad and well designed by the corresponding technicians. The second point we don't change, although we're aware of the difficulty of diagnosis that Alzheimer has with the handle of different symptoms and because there's not a single test -- neither analytics nor image -- that confirms the diagnosis. But you talked about Sergas co-ordinating a research project, the PANA Project, led by the doctors Castillo and Sobrino. It is the first European project in the 2020 hospital of a consortium in which the university participates, where the Institute of Science of the Health of Castela-León and institutions of Portugal, Belgium, Holland, Finland, Sweden and Lithuania seeking new tools to advance in the earlyness, diagnosis and treatment of this disease. In an article that appeared in a recent medical journal, Dr. Castillo says that the problem with this disease is that he's diagnosed too late. When there are symptoms, there is 70% brain damage and treatment probably doesn't work for that advanced one. You have to identify markers for when the disease is 20 or 30% and you can start treating. This project, in fact, has a total budget of 7.8 million euros. And with respect to the last point, we want to delete the last two sentences. We absolutely agree that there is going to the people-centred socio-health care model, focusing especially on promoting personal autonomy as a capacity and as a direct or indirect right, never forgetting that Alzhéimer's patients are still people. But it is not necessary to omit what has been done so far by this Government and by all the previous ones, which has been a valid, yet improved model in the future, which has helped many sick and family members to endure the difficulties that this illness causes. With regard to the last sentence, we find it repetitive to cite again the coordination between the health system and the social services referred to in the preceding paragraph, although we recognize - as it cannot be otherwise - its importance. We hope they accept the amendment. And I'm open to talking to you, Mrs Ferreiro, for a final text. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u90	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u91	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, President. Thank you very much. We live in a country, which is Galicia, where they compete with a number of features that make this problem very important in our country, because the increase in life expectancy and the aging of the population of Galicia make Galicia a place conducive to the proliferation and increase of neurodegenerative diseases, such as senis dementia and, in particular, Alzheimer. Some 4,000 cases are detected per year, and nowadays these diseases affect about 100,000 - according to the data I have consulted - diagnosed, because there are many more that are undiagnosed, so these data and figures - epidemiological studies are needed in order to develop a Greek map of neurodegenerative dementias, with particular attention to rural care, in order to develop an effective plan against this disease. One of the ways in which short-term impacts would be early detection - as you well said - of Alzhéimer, as well as being able to stabilize the disease and make it chronic to slow it down. But the cuts applied to research by the Government of the People's Party -- it's something you cannot deny, you yourself assume that you cut, so, but assume -- do not favor this process. Alzheimer's disease and other sensuous dementias are a social and health problem of a public dimension that not only affects the sick and their family circle, but also has an impact on society as a whole. Administrations, economic and social agents and citizenship in general need to be involved in designing specific care plans for these patients. And of course, nothing is done if no resources are allocated and projects are carried out to address the needs of patients and their caregivers. Alzheimer's sick is not just a patient, there's a family affected, so the whole society is affected. If clippings are applied in the Dependency Law, they are being cut into the quality of life of an entire society. The care of one Alzhéimer's sick brings about a very important - and here we know many and many - physical and emotional burden that affects the health of the caregiver, usually a woman, who is also a person who is not qualified and who has many limitations. To this reality it must be added the fact that the needs of the patient - the sick or sick of Alzheimer's or senile dementia - grow as disease advances with deterioration. Despite this reality, the affected families find themselves unprotected, in fact they feel confident that there is no protection on the part of the State or administration; they have no means or support to care for their families who suffer from this terrible illness. There are lack of residences, specialized day care centres and home care services; there are also lack of legal measures -- and this I think is very important -- and socio-laborative to respond to very important urgent circumstances, such as that family members who have to leave their jobs to care for their illnesses contain a kind of protection that allows them to leave work without that impact on their economy. So this GNP is going to count on the vote in favour of the Joint Group. Thank you very much and nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u92	Thank you very much, Mrs. Churches. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u93	Thank you, President. Well, to this group if it seems important and essential to research in any health matter, and in the matter of Alzheimer's, of course, also as important as the care given to sick people. The problem is that research at this point must be financed by private laboratories, because if it was not because Roche funds part of this research - and precisely with the commitment to exploit the final results - it is probably not possible to give this research. And also European funds; that is, there is virtually no fund on the part of the Galician Union. The reality is, precisely, that it is the researchers and researchers who have to search for life to get as important things out as this one can be. And indeed, according to data from the World Health Organization -- which are the ones who manage, extrapolating the percentages of population, the associations of family members and Alzheimer's sick and sick -- around 96,00098,000 Welsh and Welsh people suffer from some kind of dementia, of which 70% would be Alzheimer; in general, it's as much as that applies to population. And the initiative, as reported by WHO, treats Alzheimer as an authentic epidemic, and surely its progress is significant, because our population is aging and because obviously life expectancy in the last few decades - although in the last year it has gone back--for in general it has increased. The aging in Galicia tells us that around 2050 about 40% of the population will be 65 or more years old, and it is clear that this problem will continue to increase. Therefore, that point seems quite reasonable first when it comes to asking the Government to conduct a study of how dementias are in our country, and in particular Alzheimer. I don't know if a study or at least a report, because the truth is that it seems incomprehensible that when the People's Party continuously defends this digitization of clinical history -- which we find very well, the only thing that doesn't seem good is that it's in Indra's hands -- because that digitization cannot be used for those data to report on how the situation of various diseases is, in this case, the Alzheimer. And according to data from the World Health Organization it is estimated that the prevalence of our population is 10 per cent over 65 years and 40 per cent over 85 years. Mr. President, the candidate Feijóo, was speaking earlier about the cost of health care in the greater than 85. It would therefore seem essential to improve health and socio-health resources. So I also support that second point; public health has less means for an early diagnosis -- that's a reality -- or, at least, to be able to spend more time in these consultations with these patients, because primary care is disillusioned and the specialist doesn't enjoy very good health, with waiting lists that we all know. And with the absence of enough services of absolutely everything: rehabilitation or lack of services that are very important as well, as it can be occupational therapy, in this case, to curb that evolution of disease. Similarly, social services - and in that we also support this third point, which calls for a new model of socio-health care - cannot be that 80% of caregivers and caregivers are family members - most of them obviously women - and we do not have enough social services. We also have a problem, because Afaga warned, and it is already happening -- as the proposition said -- that 27 percent of the caregivers are 65 years old or older. I mean, we have older people taking care of older people with dementia, and that, obviously, is a very serious problem that is not being dealt with by the Health Council and that involves syndromes and other problems in these caregivers. With no means and no help from these caregivers and caregivers, they'll get sick. What did the People's Party do? Increasing unemployment in recent years of social services, not only from the council, now from Social Policy, but, obviously, also from the ministry. They report families who have expenses of up to 25,000 euros a year, unsustainable for a family with a low pension and unemployed members, which is a fairly common scene in our country. And what did he do, too? Remove quotes from caregivers. That adds up to the absence of sufficient social services. At this time there is in San Caetano the Committee of Centres of the Coruña de Policia Social by recording a report of the unfortunate situation of the services of the Social Policy Council, of how are the residences, of how are the day centres and of the precariousness in which they are and of the decrease in the quality of those services. And, therefore, tomorrow also demonstration in Vigo for public health. And given all this, we can conclude that there is no work done by the Health Council - already finished - and the Social Policy approach around a global approach of what dementia and Alzheimer have to be in a context where, in addition, our population is increasing; there is no planning anywhere. And, obviously, given that we have to support this proposal not of law. Two legislations later we understand that it's time for some sort of planning measure to be taken at the Health Council. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u95	Good morning. Actually, we're dealing with a matter that's not smaller, in general, and it's of great importance in Galicia. Galicia has a special prevalence, it's obvious; we have a very old country, and it's a disease--the one of Alzheimer--with a higher prevalence at the age, and it's obvious that this needs a strategy and that it's transversal, right? The 23% of the population in Galicia is over 65 years old, it has been said of this prevalence, it is over 65 years old, and indeed, Mr Núñez Centeno, data is required, the data being handled is extrapolated, because there is no data. There's the extrapolation of the World Health Organization data, which, extrapolation of the information they have to the population and the type of population that we have in Galicia, given that in that 23 percent of the population over 65 years it's estimated that there may be... 640,000 people in Galicia over 65 years old, and that, the ninety-and-a-peak, almost 100,000, extrapolating that data, can have some kind of dementia and 60 percent are estimated to be Alzheimer. Actually, it's data that needs to be extrapolated, and it's obvious that having a population like the one we have, a country like what we have, it's necessary for an administration and the Government of Greece to act, and the first thing you have to do is a study to find out what the situation is, right, because we're not talking about a question that affects a very small number of people. And another question that is, in the BNG view, serious is that it is estimated that probably 50% of these people are not diagnosed, without diagnosis, what does that mean? Well, in addition to the fact that the disease goes bigger, it means a deprotection of this person. What other data concerns us at the BNG? That, in fact, is a disease that is basically treated at the family level, already taking out the acute phases. And who cares? For between 70% and 80% of the caregivers are women. I mean, we're talking about a disease with a very high prevalence and we're talking about the responsibility for the care of these affected people, between 70 and 80 percent, lies with women. And what does that mean? Well, in many cases it means they've given up working life, these women to devote themselves to care, because especially in the middle and advanced phases they require continuous attention, continuous monitoring. What does that mean? For the abandonment of the expectations of many of these women who, from the moment they have to be caregivers, in most cases exclusively, of these people, all their personal, labor and equality expectations are drawn out because directly by the drain. This is also a tremendous reality, isn't it? In addition to what has already been said that within these caregivers 27% because they are over 65 years old, i.e. older people, in many cases even people with degenerative processes as well as insane looking after other people. I mean, the picture is of course to be taken seriously and to be asked questions beyond the statement of intentions. The Alzhéimer Association Federation has appeared in this Parliament more than a year and a half ago, in September 2014, and of course has left us many worries and demands. The first is that within the health system there must be priority for attention to this chronic disease, that there must be a transversal strategy, that must be done all possible for early detection, that there must be primary care detection protocols, that there must be recognition of non-pharmacological treatments for the slowdown of deterioration processes, that family members must be trained, that they must form professionals, that they must establish emergency protocols - such as police, emergency services or transport services, so they can know how to treat these people when they are not accompanied - that it is necessary to conduct epidemiological studies - which is indeed fundamental - that it is necessary to create proximity resources to establish appropriate resources in each context and that, indeed, research is essential to be able to begin with early detection and then go to transversal treatments. Because there's an obvious question, that in Galicia there is a cocktail that is: we have aging of the population, we have a great dispersion of that population and we have a low income level. So, with those three elements, what we have is that families have no surplus or resources to be able to address in terms of attention to these people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u97	...with which, what's left? Well, the Administration is putting the batteries on and doing something. With which we are going to support this initiative, which seems to us to be a minimum initiative, it is not an initiative since it is going to be a big leap, it is one of the minimums, it is to introduce the debate and, of course, that the Administration is starting to do something, that it is not the majority of the families who have to take care of these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Ferreiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u99	Good day again. Well, I thank the BNG Group, the Joint Group and the AGE Group for their support as well as the contributions they really made on this subject. I believe that the Government of the People's Party has in this Parliament a group of people who are perfectly aware of the problem and can perfectly advance on proposals that the PP can come perfectly. Second. We're not going to accept the amendment of the People's Party, and I'm going to explain to you, Mr. Centeno Nuñez, why. First, because the few things that accept the opposition soon fail to meet them; then they are not reliable; I am very sorry, but unfortunately it is. That's for one part. And secondly, you cut one of the proposals, the last one, which seems fundamental to me. And I'm going to explain to you, because the system of coordination of the health system and social services is not repeated. It's a system in which they have to be coordinated and have to be coordinated and perform their work in their own centers. At this point, I didn't mean coordination in general, which is fundamental, but in the centres themselves, in the services that are created to care for these sick people, the social services staff and the health personnel must be there. On the other hand, I don't underestimate the system that was being done so far, it's just a diagnosis. The assistance system is what there is, it's what there was, but that doesn't mean that I despise or undervalue this system, but I just point out here that we want to put another model in motion, and the other model in motion really means coordination and that the person is the focus of attention on that part. So, I think you, if you really want to give these sick people an alternative, I think you should take advantage of and have a wonderful opportunity to prove that, indeed, you are not using families as a cheap workforce, but you are putting in place all the services needed to deal with this 21st century epidemic. There's a subject that I want to make clear, and it's the lack of people who are starting, who are practically diagnosed, the lack of cognitive stimulation. I think it's very important, because people who have no resources don't have access to many of the centers where this stimulus can be made, which would somehow delay the occurrence of the disease. And I keep thinking the same thing after your exhibition, Mr. Núñez Centeno. They have public squares, but who really manages all of this is the associations of sick relatives; you're getting a lot of them downloaded, and they're the biggest worry I'm feeling is that failure of self-response. So they have a great opportunity to show them they're with them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Ferreiro. The following proposal is from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mr Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the implementation of the LOMCE in Galicia, namely the testing of the evaluation of the 3rd and 6th primary, as well as the demands to be made to the Central Government in this regard. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the application of LOMCE in Galicia, in particular the testing of the evaluation of 3rd and 6th primary, as well as the demands to be made by the Central Government in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u101	No amendments were tabled. Mr. Pombo has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u102	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, people who accompany us from the rostrum, very good morning. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego once again brings to this Parliament a non-legislative proposal against the imposition of LOMCE and the revalids, namely that of the 6th primary, proofs which begin today, pursuant to the LOMCE, that law so corrosive to the public education of Greek. LOMCE, which, in the view of BNG, is of course a true cancer for the Welsh education system. And with Manuel Maria's permission, today, six days from May 17, I'm going to speak as he spoke, saying that there's a cancer that bites us, there's a rotor cancer, a malignant and ugly tumor that fills us with terror; that terror that is going to go through many under the age of 11, because the Education Council has not been able to paralyze the final primary test that begins today. BNG, therefore, today makes a call to this Parliament to urge the Government of Greece, firstly, to listen to the education community of Greece, which is calling for once again today before Parliament, which is protesting against LOMCE and the upheavals, to urge the Government of Greece, firstly, to urgently paralyze LOMCE and, consequently, revalids, and, secondly, to urge the Government of the State to derogate from that law, - I say - a true cancer for the Welsh educational system. Because the final revalid of primary that is imposed today, tomorrow and the past was strongly rejected by the education community of Galicia, the community of both the student and the teacher as well as the ANPA. The Galician Public Education Defense Platform is at this hour in front of San Caetano petting on the counselor's conscience--it must be there, because here I don't see it--for them to terminate with such a prejudicial law to our education system. The BNG, which is part of this Galician Public Education Defense Platform, believes that logic and normalness would be that the Council would paralyze the realization of this test, as other autonomous communities do. Most of the Galician community don't want it. That's what he said last year, when the third assessment started. But neither does the teacher want her. He does not want this revalid because he considers it an aberration from the pedagogic point of view to subject the 11 and 12-year-old to unnecessary pressure through tests that do not regard education as a process in which to be considered the personal, socio-economic circumstances and the skills and attitudes of the student, a proof that only attempts to measure linguistic and mathematical competences, in this case also in 6th science and technology, as if the other competences were less important than these. A teacher who understands that the continuous evaluation is ignored and the opinion of tutors and tutors of the teaching teams, who are of course better aware of the student's deficiencies, potentialities and abilities, as well as the means, resources and support needed to improve learning and school performance. Greek ANPAs also roundly reject this primary end-test, because it causes -- I've already said it -- a state of totally unnecessary tension in 6th schoolchildren, in this primary case, because they also discriminate students with special educational needs, which says they can do the test, but the results will not be computed; that is, there's a part of the student that doesn't seem important to do the test. The ANPA also rejects this test because it does not take into account the families themselves in the educational process and because it is going to make an unnecessary expense, a futile expenditure of millions of euros, when we have been going through seven years of continued cuts in the Greek education system, and because, according to the ANPA, there are many communities that are not going to do this 6th test. Indeed, the vast majority of the autonomous communities do not want it, and so they expressed it when the decree was discussed, the Royal Decree of Revalids project--for sure they are still in suspense, beginning with the communities of Euskadi and Catalonia and ten more who represent the vast majority of the state student--have always manifested themselves against. I repeat and summarize, the Galician Public Education Defense Platform considers that the logic, the normal, the responsible, would be that the counsellor would paralyze the realization of this test because most of the educational community, of course, does not want it; because besides the failure to perform the tests - the words of the council itself - will have no consequences, of course, we understand that we would fulfill the release of the student from a three-day calvary, in the case of sixth, and two, in the case of the first. Ladies and gentlemen, the application of LOMCE is an absolute destiny. The Education Council, instead of defending the educational competences it has - as other communities do: Basque Country, Catalonia and six more who refuse to impose the model that the People's Party is setting, submits to the orders of Madrid's policies, disregarding most of the Galician educational community, continues with the firm decision to impose the final primary test, in sixth primary. By the way, I prelude this proof of the revalids that will come into the ESO room and second of bac, improper revalids, of course, of the present times that remind us of franchiseism and that will also have even more serious and discriminatory consequences, since, of the overcoming of those revalids of ESO and bac depends on the acquisition of high school and bachelor's degrees. The Education Council today begins with the sixth, 22,000 students and will continue tomorrow and last and next 24 and 25 for 22,000 third-party German students. The BNG Parliamentary Group has already stated its past course against these evidences, has already demanded the withdrawal of LOMCE because it is negative for the quality of the education system and because it seeks the selection and labelling of students based on external evaluators, designed from far away from the reality of the student, evidence so disrespectful of the differential factors of individuals and communities of a multinational state, evidence that they walk towards the introduction of neoliberal principles into the education system and even that they distrust the teacher and his continuing evaluator role. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are indeed faced with the deployment of a new LOMCE stage: the sixth, primary, just when the government of the state has just been urged to paralyze the LOMCE itself by the vast majority of the forces present at the Congress of Deputies. The BNG Parliamentary Group believes that it is not to be welcomed that the Education Council intends to move forward with the application of LOMCE and the revalid when it is known that it has the days counted afterwards, as I said earlier, that the Congress of Deputies, by a large majority, has just demanded its paralysis. The BNG Parliamentary Group believes that it is not to be welcomed that the Education Council intends to move forward with the implementation of LOMCE when it knows that a large majority of the educational community rejects it: it rejects it by the teacher, rejects it by the student and rejects it by the Welsh ANPA itself. For all these reasons, the BNG Parliamentary Group presents today, and calls for all parliamentary groups in this Parliament to support it, this non-legislative proposal calling for, once again, to paralyse the application of LOMCE, in particular the evidence that begins today and will take place throughout this month of May and, in addition, calls for support from this Parliament to urge the European Union, the Government of the State, to address the Government of the State in demand for the paralysing and subsequent derogation of LOMCE because, of course, neither the Galician educational community nor the BNG want a LOMCE nor the reveals as this LOMCE proposes. I look forward to the support of all parliamentary groups. Nothing else, for now, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u103	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u104	Thank you, President. In the explanatory statement and in the speech we have just heard by Mr Pombo, Mr Pombo, the argument and the need to paralyze the revalid system and the derogation from the debate and rejected LOMCE, which, by the way, is only happy for the adjudicatory company to draw up the evidence being put on the boots. I'm very afraid that the People's Party will reject this initiative again in the same way that it has always done so on numerous occasions. But yes, Mr Pombo, this GNP will be supported by the Joint Group. I want to take advantage, anyway, of this intervention to pretend what a 6th grade child has to do during the months of May and June. Let's not forget, ladies, that I'm talking about girls and eleven-year-olds or, at most, twelve years. After a whole course of study, tasks, jobs, exams, and many, many occasions, multiple school activities, in the last two months, when the tiredness is over, and they are evaluated by their teachers, overcome by a marathon of tests: examinations of the third evaluation, of the final course, of the end of cycle, recoverys, presentation of jobs and, now, the sad and famous revalids. All of this, part of the schoolwork that these students continue to do, even if it's time for evaluation. This exam marathon has to be added to an intense extra-school activity in terms of excursions, school festivals, competitions. Don't you think it's a little loaded program for people aged 11 or 12? In my opinion, yes, it's very heavy. But if the student is suffering from this stressful end-of-the-course phase, the teacher is no better off: programming and correction of exams, recovery and correction of recoveries, records, reports, collection and organization of books, memoirs, evaluation meetings, festivals organizations, accompaniment of organization of excursions, attention to families, clauses and, if not little, an endless end to infernal bureaucratic procedures. We support this initiative and encourage educators to think seriously about the need to establish the relevant changes, especially in primary education, in order to prevent this latter course from becoming a real nightmare. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u105	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all and to all. The truth is, it might seem, even we could say, that today is a sad day for the educational community of our country, Galicia. Today the Greek Government will try to subject 44,000 children - 22,000 in a first phase of primary sixth, from 8 to 9 years old to 11 and 12 years old - to a revals that are absolutely unfair, tremendously useless, but above all damaging to the rights of children and children. Never a government, never a government, I insist, has done so much harm to the children and children of our country in educational matters as the Government of the People's Party. But no, it's not a sad day. Far from being a sad day is a day of hope, as they are every day of struggle. Every day of struggle, they're days of hope, they're days of civic engagement, they're days of disobedience to unjust laws, and today it's one of those days. Because families reject, in a massive way, the revolts of the People's Party; because the professor rejects, in a majority, the Revalids of the People's Party; because the representatives of the workers reject the revalids and because the opposition groups, in a majority, reject the Lumce Revalids. And you, gentlemen of the People's Party, are left alone with your revals that are, in fact, the last extort of a LOMCE that already agonizes, is obviously dying and what's more serious is that you know it. The ANPAs provide for an insubmission of more than 60 % to the revalides. These are the predictions that have made the confederations of mothers and parents public. In these most exemplary civilism exercises, from my point of view, over the past few years, families will exercise their right to disobedience in the face of revalids, as I said, unfair, unnecessary and abusive to their children's educational rights. Nothing will serve the defamation campaign initiated by the Government of Wales; nothing will serve the extortion letters sent to families, letters sent in which true falsehoods and lies are revealed around these tests; nothing will serve the coercion to which all the parents and mothers of our country are being subjected because they no longer bind the lies of the Government. The centers are already evaluating, evaluating every day, and the families know that their children and their daughters are lucky enough to have a teacher who assumes a model of formative, initial, continuous and final evaluation, carried out systematically, informing families on time, not only in the quarterly bulletins, but also in all those personalized interviews that take place throughout the course. They know families that revalids do not serve anything but to classify boys by submitting them to standardized tests with a purely statistical purpose. This is the reality that families are familiar with, of course. You know, too, families, that revalids won't be part of the student's academic file, so they know it's useless, but they also know that they'll be part of the board records. They know that Together will create a file with its results, and they also know that those files will count and contain absolutely personal data; they know. They know that they're not part of the general evaluation plan, and therefore they are very clear that they can't be forced, families, to subject their children to this absolutely unnecessary stress. They know that the Government is lying, they know that they can exercise their right and their country's power to defend, of course, the interests of their children, not the interests of this government, and they also know other things about families, and that the Government will devote more than 300,000 euros to applying revals while submitting centres to an absolute cut in resources to meet diversity, resources to prevent school failure and the problems of learning and resources, of course, to have a support teacher, which this is fundamental to predicting the difficulties of learning. So we believe that today is a very important day, and that's why we're going to support this initiative because the families, of course, will say, the People's Party Government, we don't take part in their revamps. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u107	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u108	All right. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. In the past full, it was the Socialist Group who defended here a non-law proposition similar to the one brought here today by the BNG, and that's why I'm telling you, Mr. Pombo, that we're going to support your initiative. The Socialist Group continues to reject LOMCE and we do so because we think we have gathered a broad sense of the Welsh educational community, although we also know that we are ahead, Mr. Farínas, of a rock, a rock called the People's Party, which continues to err in defending a law that they have made alone and defend in the absolute political and social loneliness. A few days ago, this deputy who speaks to them publicly appeared on a press tour to ask Núñez Feijóo and Román Rodríguez for the last time to immediately paralyze the fearful schedule of LOMCE, and today I ask again here, taking advantage of Mr Pombo's initiative. I'd looked like a few days ago to ask Nuñéz Feijóo and Román Rodríguez to paralyze the 6th primary rally, just as I was massively demanding the entire education community from Galicia, but today you have 22,000 children and children from Galicia making a reval that is absolutely useless. I give you a data, Mr. Fariñas, that I come right now for your app, a school in Artexo, Bridge of Brozos, where 27 students from 125 students from primary school are examined. As you can see, the quorum is not even reasonable. And while they do that, you're lowering educational investment to levels never seen. They took that investment at 5 % of GDP and are committed in writing to the European Commission to 3.7% in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is a responsible group, and that is why it is necessary to once again clarify to Galician society what we want to do and in the order we want to do so: to paralyze, firstly, LOMCE, and, secondly, to develop a new Education Law, which is consistent with the educational community as a whole, and with real capacity to last over time. And thirdly, done the previous - at that time yes -, derogate the LOMCE. I hope you'll be clear to all of us, especially the ladies of the People's Group, so that they stop messing with and manipulating public opinion, putting in our mouths the things we didn't say or want to do. It is true that the Socialist Party has been very critical during the process of developing and implementing LOMCE, both in Spain and here in Galicia. We understand at the moment and continue to understand today that this country had lost, for sectarian and clearly supportive reasons, a new opportunity to provide stability for the educational system; a stability that has been demanding with great insistence the whole educational community in the country, but unfortunately, without success. The Socialist Group always said that both the Government of Greece and the Government of the State were too in a hurry to implement LOMCE because they knew it was a law that would last what Mr. Rajoy's Government had been doing in Moncloa. And we also said that, at that time, the socialists would address the development of an education law with broad social and political consensus and real capacity to last over time. We said that, at that time, we would gradually start our way of reaching an educational investment of 7% of GDP in eight years - yes, that investment that you want to lead to 3.7% in 2019 - that we would start gradually recovering the huge amounts of resources cut out in our education - about 400 million euros just here in Galicia - and that we would start gradually re-establishing the labor and professional conditions seized by the teacher and the amounts allocated to the scholarships of our students. I have always supported, and I support today, that there are no magic recipes in education. Education needs stability, it needs resources, of course, but above all it needs to look after and respect the teacher, because without them there is no miracle reform that improves the education system of any country in the world. LOMCE suffered a direct attack on this country's public school, and for the socialists that was clearly a red line that the People's Party passed without complexes, using its majority absolutist. The steps we want to take, if we have the opportunity to govern Spain, are very clear and do not allow manipulation: firstly, paralyzing the LOMCE calendar, consensually developing a new education law with real ability to last in time and, thirdly, at that time, to derogate LOMCE. We are still in time to paralyze this LOMCE deployment calendar in Galicia, in line with what they are asking for in Spain 12 of the 17 autonomous communities. You have a new opportunity here today to listen to this generalized feeling or to continue opting for your solo bet on LOMCE and its lamentable deployment calendar. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, you have decided to improve the education system by revamping and lowering educational investment to levels never seen, and you have to know that for this trip you will never be able to count on the Socialist Parliamentary Group. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u109	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to start by referring to something that you have not mentioned by any of the speakers, because it seems to be irrelevant, Mr President. But at night, at the last hour, an agreement was made at the University of Nebrija, in Madrid, between the People's Party, the Socialist Party, Podemos and Citizens to sign a pre-agreement and sign the roadmap of the educational consensus which today denied all the spokesmen members of all the parties that signed in Madrid. The independent republic of Galicia, Mrs. Quintas!, or Ourense, the independent republic wherever you want. [[Applause]] But that's the reality. [[Mrs. Quintas Álvarez speaks words which are not perceived.]] The reality is that in Galicia they are an independent republic that works against Galicia's general interests and educational interests, manipulating parents and sending letters. [[Applause]] Yes, Mr. Vázquez, and your app. But these are the ones responsible for pressuring, coercing parents and ANPAs, sending them overapps and coercive letters so that they don't send their students to individualised evaluation tests, which in itself already there is consensus. There's no consensus, Mrs. Quintas. [[Applause]] Because today even the BNG at its initiative already calls it evidence of evaluation, they are no longer revaliated. Even worse! to see if there's consensus on it, Mr. Pombo, to see if there's consensus on it. What is clear is that you don't want consensus here, Mr Docasar, you don't want consensus. They didn't want it with the LOMCE, which didn't derogate the LOE, simply modified the LOE in those aspects that were substantially improved, as you know - substantially improved! - 41 percent, I already told you in the previous plenary. 60% of the educational architecture of the law were respected. 70% of the Social and Political Pact was incorporated into the education that the Minister of Socialist Education, Mr Gabilondo, brought out. But it's not good for them, they just come here to use, to use politically, education as a political aristocracy against the policies of the People's Party, which, by the way, ladies and gentlemen, is no imposition, it's a democratic law. Democracy, in democratic countries - the value of redundancy - is in parliaments, which are the legislative chambers, those that make decisions for the majority, which is pure and hard democracy, and minorities are never the ones that make democratic decisions. Anyway, it's true that you're on the street today asking for a law to be violated. Even a candidate for the Galician Nationalist Block Board is leading a demonstration today to demand that what is approved in the chambers she wants to preside over, which are the legislative chambers. There's no problem with using minors in demonstrations today, Mr. Pombo. There's no problem today, the problem is when they're used by the People's Party. [[Applause]] Of course, of course! [[Applause]] And alone, Mr. Vázquez, never; you are alone. We are the majority democratic, the majority social of Galicia, which is most similar to the Greeks and the Greeks and which truly represents their interests, and thus is recognized one after another election, because we have won them all, everything!... And the following we're going to win them again. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And look, yourself, you; you're going to stay, which is where you have to be. As Mourinho said in the semi-finals of the Champions when he came to the Coruña: "I see them a little crevices." Yes, but then they were removed; the Sport was removed. They were growing up. You see them... what was it like? What did the illustrious secretary general say? "There we go; there, there." Well, well, well, there, there. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You, Mr. Vázquez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u111	Quiet, please, Mrs. Thursdays, quiet. Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u112	All of Europe... I know you don't, Mrs. Quintas. [[Mrs. Quintas Álvarez speaks words which are not perceived.]] All of Europe does high school tests, all of them externally. More than half of the countries do primary tests; 24 of the 34 OECD countries do exactly the same. Those who are alone are you, those who fight and hurt education and the country is you. And I'm going to tell you something that you said, "The law that has done the most damage." He lied, the law that did most damage was the one that, failing one of the highest levels of the Constitution, of equal opportunities, sent one and a half million people to the streets, without any title or possibility of obtaining it, without any professional training...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u113	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u114	...and destined to be cheap and unqualified labour. That was his law. Do you want to go back? There you are! Then, they will come back alone, but we the LOMCE covenant yes, LOMCE not, surpassed. If they're still late, keep going. We, covenant yes, covenant no. We're willing to work for consensus, you're not. And if so, prove it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u115	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pombo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u116	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the Joint Group, the Left Galician Alternative and the Socialist Group for this long and hard fight against LOMCE, that cancer of the Greek education system. I borrow again from Manuel Maria, who says, "There's a very active cancer/ that seems to be not healing:/ Cause of pain, cause of pain,/ Cause of tears and sorrow!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Tears and sorrows to students, families and the same professor, because the People's Party, also in the Greek Parliament, is the only one - the only one! - that continues to pursue an educational policy - by the way - that goes for LOMCE and for the revalids, genuine cancer that has no cure for the Greek education system. Reválidas, Mr Farínas, who aims to promote a totally classy segregationist educational system that seeks to exclude the socially disadvantaged student from the right to education. Reválidas e LOMCE - or Lei Wert - who only want to privatize, commercialize, recentralize the educational system, discarding the multinational, multicultural and multilingual configuration of the Spanish state, even betting to dominate the ignorance of the Greek language itself. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, will continue to fight against the upheavals and against LOMCE. We expect from all opposition groups who, at least, have the same commitment to the next legislation. Since then, at the BNG, we have maintained the same position as when the draft decree of revalids was discussed; totally negative revalids, as I said before, which are a demeaning of our teachers and their professionalism, given the loss of value of evaluation continues to be fundamental to the evaluation and evolution of the student. We are with the vast majority of the Galician educational community, which today is indeed manifesting itself in front of San Caetano, who does not want either LOMCE or revalid. I end up with Manuel Maria's words: "There's a very terrible cancer, it's purulent and ghastly." There's a very disgusting cancer that annihilates our people." Of course, the BNG Parliamentary Group wants our people with another different educational law, not with this law; a law that defends the teaching of Greek, public, quality, secular and democratic. In that struggle, of course, the BNG will always be. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u117	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Moisés Blanco Paradelo and Ms. Maria Julia Rodríguez Barreira, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Development in connection with the construction of the A-76 highway, between Ourense and León
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u118	Two amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal; one from the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Left Alternative and one from the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u119	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Blanco Paradelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u120	Thank you very much, President. Before we begin to defend this initiative, which we have prepared and I sign with my companion Julia from Monforte, I also want to greet the neighbors and neighbors of Valdeorras who today wanted to be here to listen to this very important initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago he ended up in the General Courts with the eleventh legislation, which will pass into history with more regret than glory, in which he didn't even give himself time to engage in legislative activity. But that, yes, enough time to see some debates on initiatives with a clear revisionist object of the immediate past and step by step to visualize different attitudes and strikings put on the scene. A small legislation that also served to verify how some of the parties, coalitions or confluences that had been presented in Galicia promising that they would have their own voice and group finally didn't. But the fact is that in the few opportunities that those of the new political caste had to manifest their position against Galicia; and very especially the communication infrastructures, which so unanimously concite in districts such as Valdeorras, Lemos, Ourense or even in the neighborhood of Bierzo. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in Valdeorras - and in the boat, in particular - in addition to the goodness of the bottle or the recognition of the winter road as a Jacobean route, the highway 76 is another of the issues that raises unanimity both in the political and social fields in the councils of different political signs, entities or neighbours in general; unanimity that we also have to say that there was in this House. I would like to remind you that on February 6, 2014 we were debating a non-legislative proposal advocated by this deputy in which we asked the Board to urge the Ministry of Development to bid for construction projects and the layout of the future highway 76. It was supported by all groups. And the same thing happened at the Congress of Deputies on December 15, 2010, where with another proposal from the People's Group was unanimously supported; or also at the Senate in November 2008. Therefore, unanimity in the German Parliament, unanimity in the General Courts, in the districts and villages involved, until very little has been done by the AGE Parliamentary Group in the Commission on the 2nd of March last 4th in this Parliament called for the immediate paralysis of this project, being supported by the BNG and the Joint Group. Or when last April 13 in the Congress of Deputies, the proposal for a People's Group proposal, the Group on the Sea-We were the only group - I repeat, it was the only one - who voted against continuing the A-76 motorway project, even saying that it was not necessary to build it. So, ladies and gentlemen, the question we ask ourselves from the People's Group is, what happened? Why now, that you're really moving forward and you're bidding for the drafting of several projects, you're changing your posture? Who did you speak to, what mayors, with whom mayors, constables, entities and citizens spoke to oppose the execution of this project and request its paralysis? Let me tell them I think they're wrong. You know why there was unanimity? Valdeorras is a region considered the gate of Galicia, which unfortunately has been left and isolated from the large and modern communication infrastructures. Thus, a first connection with the Meseta by the highway was made on the north side of the A6 and years later on the second by the south side of the A-52, when the entrance by Valdeorras - as the Romans well explained, from which we did not doubt their intelligence - was the natural way of access to the Gallaecia. A direct central route between Braga and Astorga, whose opening came demanding both the mining wealth of these inner bars and the need to body their residents. And thus, with the arrival of the Flavia dynasty in the year 69, one of the main arteries is built for the northwest peninsula, the so-called Via Nova. Later, it would be used as a medieval road, a real road, a pilgrimage road, an entry road for French troops in the war of Independence, an entryway for arrears and maragatos, a road for reapers, which followed the first trace of the railway line to enter Galicia, the Palencia-La Coruña line, inaugurated in 1883. Therefore, historical background would be enough for the highway 76 to have been the first vertebration infrastructure in Galicia and the first communication with the rest of the state's territories, but unfortunately, reality was another very different. But, ladies and gentlemen, besides the background, why do we say it's necessary? The oresan east has a great industrial and mining activity--that parallelism he used to say with the Romans and the New Way--which means the main livelihood of his families. Between the Bierzo and Valdeorras area work around 4,000 people, who travel daily on dozens of buses, vans, cars, etc., with a production of about 450,000 tons a year, which most leave from Valdeorras to the rest of the world by road and sea through the ports of Vigo and Xixón. And all this activity is done on very poor roads. Therefore, the highway 76 is more than necessary from the socio-economic point of view and also for the vertebration of the inner Galicia, communicating Valdeorras, Monforte, Ourense and even the city of Ponferrada and constituting a third access of great capacity from Galicia to Castela-León, once the N120 is overcome, especially in certain complicated sections, with many difficulties in making advance and enduring a very important heavy traffic. Ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of work, we do not understand this stance, this new position - which I said - of the new political caste, convinced that with them it begins everything, omitting the work done by socialist executives and the People's Party, both in the Union and in the Central Government, the work done by the councils, reports, deadlines, procedures, etc. And it turns out it's no use now, you have to paralyze it or look for new traces. No, let me remind you of the steps that have been taken so far: in December 2005, the contract and drafting of the information study on the highway 76; in July 2008, the provisional approval of the information study, and subject itself to public information; on 16 March 2010, a report by the Directorate General for Conservation of Nature considers these actions viable, with the only exception of the corresponding section in Biobra, Sierra de Lastra, in the Municipality of Rubiá, proposing the reconsideration of this step by this stretch. Different meetings and technical work are maintained for solvency and, as a result, in November 2010 the demarcation of State Roads presents a new document, Environmental documentation complementary to the reference information study following the public information process for the Biobraserra da Encinña da Lasta. In July 2011, the Directorate General for Nature Conservation issued a report on the analysis of the two alternatives, focusing on alternative 2 to avoid affecting the reserve areas and restricted use of the natural park. In August 2013 the BOE published the environmental impact declaration. In February 2014 the BOE published the final approval of the information study of the highway 76, 125 kilometres, with an budget of 1.2 billion euros. In the past legislation on A-76 was considered a strategic infrastructure by the Ministry of Development, which led Ana Pastor, being included in the Infrastructure, Transport and Housing Plan - the Pitvi - 20122024, receiving a strong boost. At this time we have two thirds with a project in writing and a third in tendering phase, the third Villamartín de la Abadía-Requejo, the third A Veiga de Cascallá-O Barco and the project of the third Requejo-A Veiga de Cascallá. For the second of the subnets between The Barco and Monforte the general budgets of the state for 2016 contemplate the tendering of the project of the Monforte de Lemos variant. Counsellor Ethel Vázquez himself confirmed that a viable solution was agreed with the ministry for the first phase of access to the logistics platform up to N-120 and assured that the project would be compatible with the declaration of cultural interest of the Sacred Ribeira, a commitment which also manifested the minister in functions, Ana Pastor, on the study of this frame. So--and finish--we don't understand, gentlemen, that now comes to question this communication infrastructure; we don't understand that if you're asking to paralyze this project. So I call once again the consensus with an initiative that goes against nothing or anyone but for the future of communications from Galicia. Before the shift of position and to clear any doubt today they have a new opportunity to go back and see if it was a temporary or tactical mistake or, on the contrary, if any of you intend to persist in the mistake and vote against it. Our proposal, therefore, is that the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to address the Ministry of Development to continue to promote the construction of the highway 76 between Ourense and Ponferrada, maintain the investor effort and continue to work to bring this infrastructure into reality in a manner compatible with the protection of the environment and with the declaration of the Sacred Ribeira as a World Heritage Site. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u121	Thank you, Mr. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u122	Good day to all and all. The truth is, I don't know very well what they were given to the People's Party at the congress on Saturday or Sunday; something that didn't feel very good to them, because you're the majority group that supports the Government in Galicia and in the state to be the majority group whose sole aim is to come here to oppose those who think they're going to be the alternative, in this case The Tide, the AGE and those who believe in changing the social order of this country. I know you're upset with that reality, but that's what's happening. Fear is set in the ranks of the People's Party in view of the possibility of losing its timeless cocoa spaces in the country. so much so that you arrive and twist the approaches of this organization. And we put a reality on the table: we defend the infrastructure, but not at any price. And it must be acknowledged that there is a very important infrastructure deficit in eastern Ourense because of the responsibility of those who historically ruled in this country, which was precisely the People's Party, except for six years that ruled the whole of the democratic history of the past century and this century in Galicia. So you're the only ones responsible for the cowardice they had with that county and its neighbours. That can't be obvious about the need for traces not only to respect the environment but also the history of each place, because if not, historical errors can be made that do not have a return and that are therefore incalculable in economic terms. For example, has anyone ever thought about what would be the cost in economic, social and even tourist and image terms of our country if it had not been called the World Heritage Site of the Sacred River because of an infrastructure? I think that analysis has to be done. So we do an analysis of: necessary infrastructures, yes; communicate The Boat and its surroundings, yes; a central exit to the Meseta, possibly too; but clearly not at any price and not at any cost. And it does very well the spokesperson for the People's Party to remember the Romans. True, the Romans made that way access to Galicia, but they did it because they were smarter than the People's Party, because they did an initial cost-benefit analysis and therefore made an infrastructure to access something that seemed important to them, which was the gold of this country. But the People's Party sometimes does infrastructure without a cost-benefit analysis and above all because all it wants in many cases is the hunting of the infrastructures that are being done. That's the difference. But also, if we remember history, we have to remember the history of what it means there are many deposits around there and therefore an importance to preserve and the risk that we lose that historical reference through the impact that could have on some of the parts of that infrastructure. So we in our initiative tabled an amendment, and the amendment quite significantly changed what the PP proposed. We don't want it to be compatible, we want it to respect the environment and the historical and social values. And it's not the same being compatible as respect, and it's not the same respect as preserving; and preserving is supposed to anticipate future damage, when compatibility says that in any case they can sustain both things, but obviously both things can lose a part of their values: infrastructure, part of their ability to give economic dynamisation to the environment; but also environment, part of their natural and landscaped values. And we're talking about unique natural and landscaped values that are very fragile and that can, of course, be impacted in a very important way by this position. And so wrong must not be AGE when the Minister of Development himself raised the need to restore the public approach so that among all of us we define what should be the definitive plot to prevent the attack, for example, of bird protection areas; or what would be the loss of that designation of Human Heritage for the Sacred River. So we agree on the need for an agile and more modern communication between Ourense and Ponferrada, of course, we all understand, but we say that communications cannot be made at any price. And we don't use that way of the history of the People's Party that they all have environmental impact report. True, all the aberrations that were made in this country -- except for some, for example, the Ferrazo deposits in my people and others -- had favorable environmental impact report. And that didn't take them from time to time historic navalized to our heritage, handcuffed to our geography, which they couldn't be solved over time. Is it therefore necessary to reactivate the Eastern Ourense communication infrastructure model? Yeah, sure, that's what we all agree on. But, of course, the formulas are quite different, between the formulas that preserve our historical heritage, and above all natural, and those that intend to make the infrastructure at any price, and, if possible, at the greatest possible price, better, which is what the People's Party wants. Those oversized infrastructures in costs that only they do are that then things like 3% are shown in some communities like Valencian. So we are presenting an initiative that is being attended by the People's Party will count on our favourable vote. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u123	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, neighbors and neighbors of the district of Valdeorras. It's funny how an infrastructure we've been talking about, essentially in Ourense, more than ten years with different disputes, and above all an infrastructure that the content of Mr. Blanco Paradelo's intervention has the importance it has - and indeed it's very important to establish mechanisms to vertebrate the province of Ourense, to communicate not only with Ourense, but also with the rest of Galicia - an infrastructure that, according to estimates, will cost us all citizens and citizens more than 1,221 million euros, for the People's Party to be only a concern, as seen in Mr. Blanco Paradelo's intervention, an intervention or concern of a purely electoral nature, a concern and an intervention that was unique and exclusively to try to put his finger on the rest of the political organizations. We, from the Galician Nationalist Block, have tabled an amendment to this initiative, which is based on two questions. First, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, you know perfectly - the rest of the lords surely too, but you by first hand - that the layout of this bus has a highly controversial result in Ourense, because there are districts, there are people who think they have raised the debate about whether their plot was the right one to properly vertebrate all that we can consider the east of the province of Ourense. And since we're put here in short-term politics and a bit of a barbarian, I'm going to go down to the mud too. Because I remember Mr. Baltar saying on February 5, 2007 that if the plot was definitely by Monforte, it was a knife for the Sacred Ribeira. And I remember, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, in September 2008, Mr. Baltar Pumar saying it was a stick that the Ministry had decided definitely it was for Monforte and not Trives. And, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, you were a provincial deputy at the same time, right? And Mr. Baltar was president with his vote, right, Mr. Blanco Paradelo? So, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, I think it's much more legal from the citizen's point of view if we're all serious about the issue of infrastructures, both for the cost they suppose and for the supposed benefit they have to assume for citizenship. That's why the Galician Nationalist Block presents an amendment that has two points: At the first point, what we say is this: the plot was controversial in the past, even the Ourense People's Party defended a different plot from the present one. The plot is currently being controversial, not only because of the environmental impact it has on the district of Valdeorras, on the mountain of the Lastra Company, but also because of the environmental, landscape and all kinds of impact it has on the district of Ourense and on the whole of the Sacred Ribeira. So controversial that the Minister of Development itself - yes, curiously, it is always on the electoral day of some sort - on the eve of the European elections, and last year on the eve of the municipal elections, committed to opening a new deadline to re-submit the plot to public information to introduce the improvements that were necessary to avoid that environmental and landscape impact. That's why, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, at the first point, we give the People's Party the opportunity to be once and for all in decent lives and to fulfill what they promise, with what they commit to election campaigns. And, therefore, we offer the opportunity to tell the Minister of Development from here that he has to once and for all, after more than two years, since February 2014, that he has committed himself for the first time, to pull out the public information again that plot. And we put a second point, because the infrastructure deficit that suffers from the district of Valdeorras, the district of Trives, the south of the province of Lugo, all the interior of the province of Ourense, the Central Macizo, the Sacred Ribeira and all the north-eastern part of Ourense and the southern part of Lugo we believe that it is not only solved with this infrastructure. And that's why we put a second point on our motion, in which we tell the Galician Union that it has to do a study of mobility needs, both from a social, economic and demographic point of view...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u125	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u126	...of those areas of the interior of Galicia, Ourense and Lugo, to see if it really is with this infrastructure, with this plot and with this conception of infrastructure, its permeability in the various districts meets to solve those needs that people have, that they have citizenship and that they have economic development. And then, Mr. Blanco, according to that study, we'll talk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u128	If only we have to ask the Ministry to do this infrastructure and do it as soon as possible, or if we have to ask for something else in relation not only to the permeability of that infrastructure in the different regions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u130	...but how we vertebrate the rest of the comarcas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u131	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u132	That is and has been, by the way, since 2005, always the position of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Thank you very much, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u134	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u135	Thank you very much. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u136	Thank you very much, President. They will build the A-76 bus and will cost at least 1,221 million euros, almost 10 million euros on average for each of the 125 kilometres of the bus. An infrastructure would be unnecessary depending on current traffic, with an average of 4,580 vehicles, when the amount of traffic recommended by the European Union to perform a decoupling of the road from two to four lanes is 10,000 to 15,000 units. They will build the highway despite the report of the multidisciplinary commission coordinated by the people's valedora and responsible for carrying out the technical study that allows the candidacy of the Holy Ribeira of 'patrimony of humanity' to UNESCO, for which the Members of Lugo and Ourense have come up to EUR 100,000. The report of these experts ensures that the proposal of the plot of A-76 is incompatible with the statement of the Sacred Ribeira as the heritage of humanity. But you will build the highway, even though the report says textually that the plot and its works will have a significant impact on spaces and habitats that enjoy different protection status, such as protected natural spaces or habitats of Community interest. They will build the highway despite the warning that these technical experts will be seriously and permanently affected by the landscape heritage of the Sacred Ribeira, a heritage of special fragility as far as it could harm a central aspect in the proposal of the area as the heritage of humanity. They will build the highway despite the landscape environmental impact in the area, which would involve the destruction of the social, cultural and economic fabric, not only of the Sacred Ribeira, but also of the Sierra da Lastro Natural Park, the area of greater animal diversity and vegetable diversity throughout the territory of Greece, according to Adega. They will build the highway but they will not explain to the citizen that cuts in public services - in education, health and pensions - will come to finance this work. They'll build the highway, but not in our name. They will build the highway but not on behalf of the three honourable Members, of the three women we make up the Joint Group, who will not give their support to this electoralist proposal not by law of the People's Party. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u137	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Just over a month ago, in Commission 2nd, the parliamentary groups had the opportunity to debate a non-law proposal, on the initiative at that time of the Gaga de Left alternative, on A-76, the Ponferrada-Ourense highway. Since then, the same issue has been discussed in the Spanish Parliament as well. The Socialists believe that with this initiative the People's Group only wants to stage the position of the groups and to remind them of their failure to comply with A-76. But what it does is actually to make manifest, in discovery, the weaknesses of the People's Party's governments with A-76, with the Ponferrada-Uurense highway. The proposal in agreement shows these weaknesses: that the Government of the People's Party in Spain failed to comply with the deadlines and budgets of A-76; that the Greek Parliament must push the Greek Executive to abandon passivity and be more proactive in the construction of A-76, and even that the People's Group tries to justify Mr. Rajoy's inannance and immobility with the favor of Mr. Feijóo, and even put him on duty to a government that does not exist today. Finally, as we've seen all morning, it's the People's Party in a pure and hard election campaign: doing what it does, nothing at all, takes a while. We're talking about the Lemos Lands, the Valdeorras Bisbar and even the Bierzo. Valdeorras is one of the most dynamic territorial spaces in Galicia, with precarious channels of communication that hinder its presence in the centres of greatest activity in Galicia. He has the right aspiration to join the Galician road network and cease to be the self-denominated "fifth province" of Galicia. This self-denomination of the valdorres and valdorres has a great deal to do with the structural isolation with the other provinces of Greece because of the failure of modern and competitive road and railway infrastructures. Valdeorras and the Lands of Lemos feel more connected in their activity and in their relations with Castile and León than Galicia; not by affinity, but by proximity; not by detachment, but by necessity; not by better communications, but by lower distances. This is conscious of the Bierzo, Valdeorras, Terra de Lemos and the population settled in the fringe of the influence of the 125 kilometers of the journey of the future A-76. So the future A-76, the Ponferrada-Ourense highway, turns out to be a capital transcendence for the vertebration of the inner Galicia. It will be a crucial element of competitiveness and value added to the current economic activity and a niche of new opportunities in these territories. Palpable opportunities in different sectors: slate sector, wine sector, agroforestry sector, tourism sector, monumental and cultural sector, etc., etc. All these sectors need appropriate communication infrastructures to be able to compete and to develop their full potential. These territories and these sectors need A-76 to survive and even survive. It is even essential to address joint projects between different territories that aspire to complement each other. A-76 will bring permeability and value to human and material resources together. It must therefore be an essential support for growth in social, business, productive, formative, sectoral relationships, a growth pole that overcomes individualisms and localisms, in a context of promoting synergies. We will therefore support this initiative, with the irrevocable cautions also covered by this proposal for the first time reflected by the People's Group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u139	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Group author of the non-law proposal. White Lord Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Fernández, I don't think that at this present political moment, and especially in the face of the uncertainty of possible future governments, it is too much to ratify this agreement. What I'm telling you is that if at some point the Socialist Party has reached some agreement, some government pact, with Podemos, that you do not allow this infrastructure to come down. With regard to the Mixed Group, I just want to say that I regret that an oransa defends with that vehemence the paralysis of this important infrastructure, and also tell them that it seems that only the technicians and reports that approach their theses are the ones that are worth; the Galician Technicians, the Ministry's technicians, those reports don't like them at all. I want to tell Mr. Fajardo, about the contradictions that he was talking about, that they twist, I thought Alexandra Fernández had stayed with you. Alexandra Fernández said at the Congress of Deputies that this bus was unnecessary and also said it was harmful. So I greet your new positioning and greet that you do not ask for the project to paralyze. But, of course, those who are full of contradictions are you, and they are the ones who want to avoid all the work done up to now by all political parties, and with you they start Adamism... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u141	Hey! Hey! Hey, Mr. Beers! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Beers!... [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u142	We've just seen a new example of democracy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u143	I call you in order and you know what article 108 is, you know it well. You know him well, don't put me in that weaver. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, not your orders, with regard to Parliament. Yes. No, no... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you don't want to be, go, and if you don't, you have to... No, no, of course, uh, about who's in Parliament, and don't put me in difficult tissues. No, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u144	Mr President, what I'm telling you is that I'm not going to let those of the new political class call me fascist. I want to remember: PP, PSOE, Citizens in Congress support the highway 76, In Marea-Podemos voted against its construction and stated that it would suffice to improve the current N120. [[Applause]] We can get from the Barco and the City Riyadh, its sharp marks, they're in favor. So you have to clarify yourself. What are you going to take on your election program? You're driving 76 if you're driving 76, aren't you? You'd have to clear up. I want to tell you, too, about the amendments, that of course we're not going to accept them. Mrs. Peace, with all due respect, if we continue to do new studies and debate about the plots, you know that this infrastructure will never be carried out, and you said we've been more than ten years. So they add up to the deal. I wanted to remember, without feeling in this case referred to, but Mr Jorquera in the debate at the Congress of Members he advocated that this initiative should have a unanimous vote, and I would also like to ask Mr Jorquera to pay attention as soon as possible. And with regard to AGE--and I finish now--I tell you, about your amendments: you also want to be specified and orceed. I'll remind you: Tresto Villamartín de la Abadía-Requejo, 7.6 kilometers long, budgeting 35.26 million, and waiting for the writing that is finished this year; Tresto A Veiga de Cascalá-O Barco, 8.4 kilometers long, budgeting 26.35 million, and waiting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u146	...that your writing is finished this year. The project of the third Requejo-A Veiga de Cascallá was bided on April 2, 2016, the deadline for submission of bids ends on May 25, 2016, has a length of 10.7 kilometers and a budget...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u148	...of 223 million. So they add up to the deal. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u149	Thank you, Mr. Blanco Paradello. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado asks for the floor.]] Yes, you have the floor, Mr. Beers. I suppose it will be to remove the insult from the honourable Member by calling him a fascist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u150	For a matter of order, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u151	Yeah, what is it?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u152	If it is right, with regard to parliamentary groups, that the People's Group intends to mark and impose on these groups - let's be us, that's PSOE - what should be their performance in agreements with other political forces... No, but that's not the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u153	No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now, already mentioned, do you withdraw the expression "fascist"?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u154	Yes, I do. Of course I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u155	You take it away? Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u156	That's how I like it. Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u157	Do you remember Galileo? Eppur's moving. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u158	Withdrawal remains. First of all, we are voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Council of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government in the area of social protection for unemployed workers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u159	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Yeah? [[Murmurs.]] I do not know whether the Joint Group accepts a point vote. You don't accept it. We vote the way it is. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Together, at the initiative of Ms. Monica Fernández Rodríguez, on the impulse by the Government of Galicia to a bill that regulates the institutional advertising and the action that must be carried out for granting grants to the media for the use of Greek. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u160	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and five other Members, on the wind competition settlement by the Galician Union and the implementation of a new regulation that allows to develop an energy model of production based on renewable energies with distributed generation and self-consumption. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u161	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. There's a suggestion from the second vice president - and I take it into account because I always do it and today I dissociate myself - that goes about the modification by the Greek Government of the transitional provision fourth of Law 2/2016, of the 10th of February, of the Galician soil, with the incorporation of the rural core soil. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo García García and three other Members, on the modification by the Government of Greece of the transitional provision fourth of the Law 2/2016, of the 10th of February, of the soil of Galicia, with the incorporation of the soil of rural nucleus. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u162	We are now voting on the Non-Legal Proposal, of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, on the defence for the Galician Union before the state and Community authorities of the revision of the current system of distribution of fishing quotas and the management of resources within the framework of the common agricultural policy. Mr. Balsairo has already stated that he does not accept the amendments tabled by the groups. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. At the initiative of Mr José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on behalf of the Committee of the Regions, before the state and Community authorities, the review of the current system of distribution of fishing quotas and the management of resources within the framework of the common agricultural policy in order to resolve the situation generated by the application of the principle of relative stability. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u163	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the situation, diagnosis and socio-health care of dementia and, in particular, Alzheimer's disease in Galicia. He has already stated that he did not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María de los Angeles Ferreiro Vidarte and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the situation, diagnosis and socio-health care of dementia and, in particular, Alzheimer's disease in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u164	We are now voting on the non-law proposal from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the implementation of LOMCE in Galicia, in particular the testing of the evaluation of the 3rd and 6th primary, as well as the demands to be made by the Central Government in this regard. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, on the action to be taken by the Government of Galicia in relation to the application of LOMCE in Galicia, in particular the testing of the evaluation of 3rd and 6th primary, as well as the demands to be made by the Central Government in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u165	And finally, we are voting on the Non-Legal Proposal, of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Development in connection with the construction of the A-76 motorway, between Ourense and León. Amendments tabled by the groups were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Moisés Blanco Paradelo and Ms. Maria Julia Rodríguez Barreira, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Development in connection with the construction of the A-76 highway, between Ourense and León. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 56; votes against, 3; abstentions, 11. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u166	I get the groups an institutional statement from the Galician Parliament about the Palestinian people that I read below. Institutional statement of the Galician Parliament of 10 May 2016 on the Palestinian people "With the galley of the anniversary of the beginning of the exodus of the Palestinian people, on 15 May, the Parliament of Galicia demands from the international community that Israel: Compliance with United Nations resolutions. The absolute respect for the human rights of Palestinians and Palestinians." [[Murmurs.]] - Silence, please, it's a serious matter. - Yeah. "The absolute respect for the collective rights of the Palestinian people. The recognition of the right to return of persons and communities to the lands and houses of which they were expelled. We demonstrate our firmest commitment to the inalienable rights of the person, to freedom and to the fullest respect for human dignity. The Galician Parliament will spare no effort to contribute from Galicia to building a fair international order, under the support of international legality, a world in which the force is always subject to law. Santiago de Compostela, May 11, 2016." Discussion of the motions for resolutions made to the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u167	We are now debating the motions for resolutions made to the Strategic Plan of Galicia. As we talked about the other day, the proposals are: from the Joint Parliamentary Group, 35; Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galaga de Left, 23; Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 17; Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 29; and People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, 4. We continue the debate and vote in accordance with the agreement reached at the Council of Spokesman on 3 May. It opens a round of speeches by the parliamentary groups to stand on the motions for resolutions by the other groups for a maximum of 10 minutes per parliamentary group, after their management by this presidency. We therefore begin with the Joint Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u168	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The Joint Group will support all the resolutions put forward by the opposition groups, because although it is true that some of them can give rise to a debate, most of them are consistent with the objectives presented by the Joint Group, and as a whole they include initiatives which I consider essential to follow. I also wish to regret the lack of willingness of the People's Party to reach agreements on a plan that goes far beyond this legislation, which is already in its final line. As for the compromise proposals, we shall vote in favour of them, as they improve the original text. But in my time, I'll highlight some of the issues that I think are most outstanding. Regarding health, the People's Party deals with an AGE proposal that is drafted as follows: "To develop a new mental health strategy with the greatest possible participation and consensus." But, however, it rejects all the resolutions that affected the recovery of public health personnel and the convening of public clinical psychology squares. They don't go together. If we're going to improve mental health, there'll obviously have to be talk about increasing staff paintings and incorporating clinical psychology staff. Also on such important issues as R & D+i or housing, the People's Party has not been able to accept any of the opposition's proposals, nor even to achieve a transactional, except in the recovery of historical helmets. In education, the People's Party accepts Socialist Party resolution 6 (b) to ensure a policy of scholarships sufficient for access to higher education, which seems very good to us. But I disagreed with this acceptance with the rejection of proposal 7.5 from the same group, which aims to launch new scholarships that guarantee equal access to higher education. So, on the one hand, we say yes, but on the other hand, we say no to the mechanisms to guarantee what we said yes. As for employment, no agreement has been reached in the resolutions that urge to improve the wage and labor conditions of the working class in Galicia, and not a single one has been accepted. Thus, despite the fact that the People's Party, in view of this reality, accepted AGE's proposal 22 (c) which speaks of "reducing the gender pay gap", then rejects all proposals that set out measures to achieve the end, such as proposal No. 10 of the Joint Group, which calls for equal wages and rights between men and women in the business field to be one of the criteria for awarding public contracts. As for the language, I came to the conclusion that, as long as the Government of the People's Party is the one in this House, our language will be condemned to ostracism, they don't respect the Greek language. It gives the impression that for the People's Party, Greek is nothing but a language of walking around the house, a language to which it refuses to give prestige and recognition. So, for example, they did not accept one of the joint group's motions for resolution that spoke of enhancing the English edition of all kinds of texts, including scientific and historical texts, which was fundamental. There is no scientific literature in Greek; therefore, it should be a government bet to give precisely that prestige to the language. Just as they also reject other proposals from the Joint Group that influenced to empower the Greek as a language of communication in teaching and as a language of communication from the Administration with its administrators. She was also rejected, we don't understand why. You remain in language propaganda; therefore, you are condemning our language to disappearance. Here, too, the People's Party, on the one hand, deals with the BNG, on the subject of territory, a resolution to achieve the comprehensive sanitation of the Galician rivers through a planning for the development of the precise performances. All right, but he rejects Resolution 34 of the Joint Group, which called for the inclusion in the Strategic Plan of Galicia of a plan to deindustrialize the coast line of the river banks. As long as we have the industry by the river, as long as we have the industry by the coast, obviously pollution will continue. We have to have a plan, and it's not said in a year or seven, but obviously we have to get the industry out of the back and the banks of the rivers. As for the production sectors of the sea, it accepts resolution 17 of the Socialist Party to improve the quality of the productive areas and to encourage research to avoid the death of bivalves and parasites that also affect other species. But it also rejects resolution 26 of the Joint Group, which says that no more aquaculture facilities are allowed until there is a diagnosis of why we are in this situation of bivalve deaths and the contamination of river streams that affects other species by toxins. It is impossible not to devote a minute to the commentary so the People's Party does not accept resolution 18.2 of the Socialist Party, which proposes the establishment of mechanisms that prevent people from fishing in adverse weather conditions. The People's Party justifies non-acceptance by saying it doesn't proceed because such insurance has already been put in place and it has not been accommodated between the sector. And since he was unwelcome, now that they stand. I mean, if you didn't have the previous plan, you'll have to talk to the sector about what that insurance was missing, what the sector needs, and what conditions this security will have to be set up. Because they didn't accept what I gave them, I don't give them anything now. It's just that it doesn't make any sense, when we're talking about deaths every year because sailors are forced to go out to sea on time because they have no income. So it's an essential measure that you didn't accept. And as for the forest theme, we've come to a transaction about the expiring and native species that, of course, we're going to support, but we're staying there pending what's going on with the eucalyptus nitens and its proliferation in Galicia, whether it's going to be done or not done. And we must also emphasize the impossibility of reaching an agreement on fire prevention and extinction, not one of the opposition's proposals has been accepted. As for the dairy sector, it is worth noting that the resolutions put forward by the opposition, which required an industrialization plan around the Welsh milk sector, defended in this House by all opposition groups, were not accepted to generate wealth in our rural areas, and also to value our milk with products that are made with Greek milk. It wasn't possible, and that's the support you give to the dairy sector once again, and to the rural environment. As far as social cohesion is concerned, unfortunately none of the resolutions put forward by the opposition that set out measures to reduce social inequality, protect the most vulnerable people or reduce poverty rates were accepted by the People's Party. None of them were accepted to guarantee housing, to guarantee access to energy, to guarantee access to drinking water, three vital issues without which no one can live in decent conditions. And the People's Party rejects all those who are led to establish these rights as fundamental rights of citizenship. But also in the transaction with AGE's proposal #12, to study the expansion of the health portfolio in dentistry, optics, optometry, audiology and physiology, we've come to that transaction to study enlargement, that is, in four years, what we're going to do is study. That is the goal, to study enlargement, which contradicted the proposed non-law of the Joint Group adopted at the plenary session on 12 April, where the expansion of the portfolio in dentistry was approved. There is also a transaction with number 3 of the Socialist Party, to wager for equal pay between men and women in the workplace, and yet they reject proposal number 12 of the Joint Group. Number 10 said that for contracts with public administration they would be taken into account and those companies that have established real equal pay between men and women were more valued. It has not been accepted, with which public contracts may go to companies applying wage discrimination. And it has not been accepted that taking into account, as well as something to be valued at the time of public procurement, those companies that have developed policies of prevention and combating gender-based violence within the workplace, two issues that seem to me to be fundamental in equality and that you refuse to assess and evaluate for public procurement. There is also the transaction they present with number 7 of the Socialist Party, to facilitate the reconciliation of the working and family life of the population, which says "through complementary services." I fail to add here the rationalization of schedules, which I think is also one of the great problems this country has in reconciling working and working life, not just work and family.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u170	I'll finish, yes, thank you, President. It's not only the family part, but we all have a working life, and basically what needs to be changed are the working hours. And by the way, in the deal with the 18th AGE and the 2nd Joint Group, for the plan to welcome and integrate refugees, I fully agree. We've introduced him many times and I'm going to approve that transaction. All I want to make clear here is that this plan is not known, we are going to vote for a plan that we do not know, that the Government says exists but that nobody knows, that has not been debated in this Parliament. And to me - and I would like to reiterate - I would like you to come to this Parliament so that you can get to know it and get closer to the opposition to try to improve it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u171	Thank you, Mrs. MartínAsez. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u172	Good morning. Good morning, Counselor. We believe that the Strategic Plan, in addition to what I said yesterday that we did not share the process of processing--but I will not come back on it--it already fails to define the strategic objective. For us to the strategic goal of consolidating the current economic recovery it is missing to be strategic, I think it is in excess of a conjunctive. And there are other definitions that are, on the other hand, too generic, where exchanging Galicia's name for another autonomous community would also be worth it. In our proposal we propose a strategic objective to move forward in a process of reducing the current external balance of the Greek economy, because we believe that Galicia would be less vulnerable to economic changes in the European and global context. And that strategic goal is also measurable, it can be measured according to Galician GDP. In 2012, the IGE indicated a negative balance of 2.6% of our GDP, while Germany or Catalonia has positive balances of 5.9% and Catalonia by 10%. It's a strategic, measurable target, and we think it's fit for our country to have a less vulnerable economy. And for that we also propose many of our contributions. First, to reduce dependence we bet on acting on energy dependence, changing the regulatory framework and policies, making political decisions, to reduce energy dependence. 90% of primary energy consumed in Galicia to produce electricity comes from outside. There are ways to reduce that energy dependency. We propose - it is our proposal - to change the regulatory framework, which is the political decision to reduce energy dependence, instead, to testify - as I told you yesterday - that what is required is regulatory support. After the four years of the Minister Soria - the Panamanian, the political example for all Spanish and Spanish - it turns out that I remain normative is what the People's Party asks us to do, which has turned the power of the Spanish state around. Now they ask us to remain normative because they have already managed to have a regulatory framework that favors large power companies. And now they don't want to change it to make a policy framework in favour of Galicia, the Greeks and the Greeks. That would be an ambitious goal for Galicia too, for job creation and wealth based on the development of renewable energy. Territorial model of Galicia. We believe that if we do not tackle this issue seriously, Galicia will not be able to develop endogenous economic projects in its rural areas, unless it has adequate administrative and political scales. We bet on comarcalization. We have already explained that voluntary fusion of municipalities does not serve those objectives, it serves to prolong the agony of these municipalities but does not solve the structural cause of the anemia of these municipalities, which is the financial insufficiency and muscle capacity to develop their own policies. Rural marketing and metropolitan areas in urban areas. Real estate companies, companies at industrial level, when they've been looking for themselves, they've been working on a scale other than the municipalities for many years. On the other hand, the Public Administration of the People's Party condemns us working on a city hall scale. We also propose, in this administrative reorganization which we believe is necessary, the abolition of provincial parliaments. Yes, you have just accepted a proposal in the Greek Parliament of the Galician Nationalist Block as to the local funding where we are requested - in addition, supported by us - that the State transfers to the municipalities pass through the Galician Union and that it is the Galician Union that distributes the funds objectively and rationally to the municipalities, because it is the best person who knows the reality of Galicia and not the state. We support that. So what would make sense to Members if we managed to get state transfers through the board? None. We're also talking about trade and distribution. And here there are no equidistant or neutral policies, here are policies that have favored the large distribution and the introduction of foreign distribution in Galicia, that have massacred small and medium-trade and that have not created powerful Welsh distributors who could compete with the French or Germans. That's political, tax, land management decisions, etc. That's political decisions. You can also have a very ambitious objective in correcting this country's negative food balance. Galicia is not Grenland, it's not Alaska, it doesn't have to be spending millions and millions of euros annually on buying food from outside and while having productive land abandoned by a poor territorial management policy. That's a realistic, ambitious goal, and we're talking about many millions of euros that have to pay our owners, above all, but we also have to pay for not having an orderly production in this country. We propose for this many measures - which I do not have time to implement - we propose tax on large areas, measures to promote local trade, responsible public procurement with these criteria. It is very significant the answer given to us when we say that the Public Administration has to buy local providers who offer decent and proximity jobs - something like that -. And you say that's not the philosophy of the plan. Exactly, that's not the philosophy of the plan. Promoting decent employment and local trade is not the philosophy of the plan. In housing, to politically change housing regulations, to focus housing policy as a right rather than as a business of speculation. And for that there is no neutrality either, there is a need to limit speculative urban expansion, and rehabilitation and urban regeneration must be prioritized. We need to create a rental public park and we need to regulate the private rental market. And if you make this clear to me that we propose that the private rental market be regulated and you answer us that the private market is not regulated. If you can explain, I'd like to thank you. It is therefore a public rental park that deserves such a name, which is close to the middle of the European countries. There's no other way, or if he's on either side or if he's on the other side, there's no half-ink. With the recipes you've applied in recent years since Aznar's law, what happens is the exclusion of the right to housing of millions; in this case, in Galicia, of thousands of people, as we're seeing. To promote the competence of financial intermediaries. You say it's no longer your competence, your responsibility. You've lost the opportunity for political decisions to have boxes of Greek savings, or a box of Greek savings. And now you're already saying that you're not able to deal with such an important issue as the financing of this country, you're already giving up. But you lost that situation. To define also a Welsh strategy that makes the incomes of natural hydraulic, wind and biomass energy resources in the country. And you, when we ask to rescue the hydraulic concessions to the public, tell us that it's not the goal to rescue obsolete hydraulic concessions. For these obsolete hydraulic concessions are those that give Mr. Villar Mir benefits of 400 % and 500 %, because they are not obsolete, you have to change "obsolete" for "amortized". Give me all those obsolete concessions, give them to the public and don't give them to friends. Another shows also the lack of ambition and the lack of a country's government is when we talk about mobility, the strategic goal of vertebrating the country with the railway, connecting the main cities that are not connected by rail and the nearby train. Do you know what you're saying, Counselor? That Galicia has no competence for that. And do you think you can make a strategic plan without talking about the railway connection of the cities and the nearby train? Do you think this is strategic? Do you believe that we have to limit ourselves to seeing this country as we are today and that we do not have to aspire to more competences, to have more self-government or to negotiate equally with the state to ensure that cities are connected with railways or to have a nearby train? You tell this to the Greeks, that you, in that, decide Madrid. We also want to talk about what you answer about the dairy sector. Look, we propose a specific industrial plan for the dairy sector. Do you know what you tell us and where they send us? At a table for the strengthening of the dairy sector, that is, you are proposing a strategic plan that will be adopted today with the votes of the People's Party without making any concrete bet on the industrialization of milk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u173	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u174	...because they say they're studying it with the sectors. After seven years of government, you're studying the industrial plan for milk. That's very definite. I don't have much more time. We will support the contributions made by the other groups. And we're going to vote that no, as we announced yesterday, to this strategic plan that doesn't serve this country, that applies the same recipes that you've been applying these years and that have given the results that we've already seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u175	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, we have reached ten compromise agreements between the various groups on the basis of the motions for resolutions tabled by the BNG Parliamentary Group. We attach particular importance to the transaction with paragraph (a) of our motion for resolution No. 3 which proposes - I quote from the outset - "to encourage the necessary measures to facilitate access to credit through the creation of public financial instruments that favour the financing of the productive economy". Clearly, the difficulty of access to credit is one of the factors that is strangling the productive economy and hindering real economic recovery; a problem that, in addition, in Galicia goes further. Galicia's saving volume increases, but the credit award only decreases. Credits account for only 74% of existing deposits in our country, the lowest percentage of all autonomous communities. And the credit granted in Galicia represents only 54% of what would be our population, the worst ratio of the state after Extreme. The difference between the volume of deposits of the banks in Galicia and the credit granted is already EUR 14,729 million, almost EUR 15,000 million emigration from our country to provide credit to other territories. Well, at this morning's meeting, in Mr Feijó's answer to our question, we were censured that we did not congratulate the Government on self-financing. Mr. Feijóo wants to convert the control sessions to adulation sessions. But let me tell you, Counsellor, that this data reveals one of the great fiascos of this autonomous government, the fiasco of the boxes, the fiasco of the disappearance of our financial sector. That is why we consider the creation of public financial instruments to promote access to credit and the financing of the productive economy as a basis. And have the assurance, Counselor, that we are going to make a very strict follow-up to the fulfilment of this agreement so that this transaction is not merely a toast to the sun. It also has a unique relevance to the transaction to our motion for resolution No. 13 on the primary sector. In this transaction, we propose measures to ensure that Welsh farms receive fair remuneration for the milk that covers at least the costs of production, promote a multifunctional exploitation policy of the mountain and promote quality productions that allow greater added value, by establishing a management of forest crops that is respectful of biodiversity and by promoting the cultivation of indigenous and deciduous species. And finally, in this transaction, it proposes to develop a strategic plan for improving shellfishing and bass fishing that will allow for a greater recovery of catches and the obtaining of decent income to maintain activity. Among other measures, a priority line of action will be the improvement of marketing and identification channels and put in value of products. And I make the same reflection again: we will follow closely this transaction so that it is not a mere toast to the sun. Other transactions refer to the empowerment of active employment policies for young people, to achieve comprehensive sanitation of the Welsh rivers, to the drive of a Greek cultural industry based on services linked to Galician language and culture, with particular attention to the lusophone world. Our language and culture are not only the most representative values of our identity but they also allow us to create value added and then jobs. And when we comment on these transactions, we keep alive for the vote the rest of the motions for resolutions tabled by the Nationalist Block of Wales. And in this sense, I have to say, some of the arguments used by the Government and the People's Party to reject some of our proposals powerfully appeal to us. For example, it refers to the creation of a pull which integrates Galicia's main trading ports, which refers to measures to end abusive tariffs at the prices of state-dependent highways, or the need to complete the modernization of the internal rail network by boosting the interconnection of all the cities of Galicia through high rail routes and the launching of railway proximity services in Galicia. It is argued by the Government and by the People's Party that these proposals are not acceptable for affecting State competences. But, look, we're talking about the country's strategic goals, and the achievement of many of them is conditional on competences that depend on the state. And in view of that, this Parliament and the Government of Greece can't be denied. I wonder, then, Counsellor, how we will achieve the objective set out in the plan that we are debating establishing a ground-based communication system that will reverse the territory of Greece in order to bring to the population the high-performance pathways. How can this objective be achieved if you are based on the fact that there can be no pronouncement on aspects that affect state competence? I imagine that appeal to state powers is also the reason not to accept to strengthen the strategic character of the Welsh naval sector - as we propose - by promoting the projects of naval repair centres in the rivers of Ferrol and Vigo and the creation of an integral complex of the naval in the Ferrol River that contemplates the full incorporation of civil construction into the yards of the river. You're going to vote on these proposals. I just want to remember that many of these proposals were commitments announced by the Government of Feijóo; therefore, you will be voting against the commitments made by the Government of Feijóo, particularly in the district of Ferrol. In the same way that they will refuse to encourage changes in labour law to combat precariousness or our social proposals, such as developing a social emergency plan, reversing cuts and privatization of services in health care, ensuring that all people found in the so-called "dependency limb" have the public benefit that corresponds to them by law, or pushing a public network of child care services that establishes a equitable territorial distribution. Look, Counselor, just a reflection on this. The strategic plan sets out to promote social cohesion and to combat the demographic decline of the country. Well, look, to foster social cohesion incompatible with the cuts in social policies. And the demographic problem of this country is not only solved with tax incentives, Counselor. The demographic problem is solved by truly betting on stable and quality employment, and on equality and reconciliation. As far as the proposals put forward by the rest of the opposition groups are concerned, we are going to vote in favour of them all. Many of them coincide, in their background or in the reasons that inspire them, with the proposals put forward by the BNG. And I will conclude by announcing that, despite the improvements that have been made, we maintain our critical position with this plan and, therefore, we will vote against it. We believe this plan is sickened by a clear order of priorities in defining actions and objectives. So many goals and lines of action are marked that it is impossible to make a real priority. But, above all, this plan is not credible, Counsellor, nor the policies practised by this government are consistent with the objectives set out neither many of these objectives are accompanied by concrete measures, including budgetary allocations, which make them possible. That's why we're very afraid that this strategic plan is a toast to the sun, we're very afraid that with this plan the same thing happened with the previous plan, Counselor, and that the Government of the Union did not succeed one, it did not meet any of the objectives that were set out. We are very afraid, as we have already expressed in yesterday's debate, Counsellor, that this plan will simply be a propaganda operation at the gates of the end of the legislation so that this government will sell us a horizon of hope until 2020 that will cover the blackness that will leave this government in inheritance to the Greeks and to the Greeks, in inheritance to this society. Thank you very much, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u177	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Gallego Calvar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, we were saying in yesterday's debate that, at the trial of the Socialist Group, the objectives pursued by this strategic plan reflect an amendment to the entire policy pursued by Mr Núñez Feijóo in front of the Government of Galicia since 2009, not only in the diagnosis of the situation in the country but also in many of the objectives pursued. And then we had the People's Group's reply that it seemed incongruent to you that we agreed on our goals and did not support the plan. Of course, that's because the Popular Group probably wasn't paying attention to the fulfilment of the previous strategic plan. Because if we have to trust Mr. Feijóo's government's support to carry out the Strategic Plan, the reality is that the previous plan, the 2010 2014 plan, had a breakthrough in five years practically a budget as to what was being pursued, to the objectives, and finally to the realization. So, Counsellor, we have already announced to you now that it would be very convenient to develop this strategic plan that you have made a systematic and annual evaluation of the follow-up of the indicators, precisely to avoid the developments in the previous strategic plan. It would be good if they did so to avoid these breakthroughs. See, in most of the 29 motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to improve the content of this strategic plan, the answer of the Government of Greece, through its person, is that it does not fit the logic of the Strategic Plan or does not adapt to the logic of the Strategic Plan. That is the standard answer, with more or less argumentation then, the standard answer to which we present as motions for a resolution of the Socialist Group is, of course. This plan is presented in an economic context in which, as I said yesterday, as a result of the action of Mr. Feijóo's government, we have today in Galicia that in all economic indicators we are having worse behavior than in 2009; in an economic context where, in addition, we knew according to the latest data from the EPA - which are not statistics from the Socialist Group but are from the National Institute of Statistics - that in our autonomous community we have 38,300 homes in which there is no entry. And it's the worst statistical data ever since that data has been known. So this plan had to respond to that situation in the country. And indeed, the diagnosis is good but then the prioritization, the realization and the background, Counselor, prevents us from being optimistic in their realization. Therefore, I have already announced to you from now on - unless you in this debate are able to accept most of our motions for resolutions, to which since yesterday there has been no attempt to approach your side - that the Socialist Group will not be able to vote favourably to this strategic plan. It's true that we've made some arrangements these days in the work we've done. It is true that, of the 29 resolutions tabled by the Socialist Group, we have dealt with 11 of those resolutions, 32 partial proposals, 32 partial proposals which are important to us and which improve the content of the plan, but which are not enough to have a favourable vote by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I would like to highlight some of those compromised proposals today. In the field of employment, for example, you agree at last - after you have presented it in this Parliament throughout these two legislations on repeated occasions and always vote against - that training in key competences for the Italian production fabric can be done in time of unemployment, promote it so; or to promote the transformation of temporary contracts into indefinite in German companies; or to wage, for example, by specific programmes for the equality of women and men in the workplace, as well as to put in place plans back to study, training and accreditation of competences for young people whose training does not adapt to today's demands on the labour market. There is also a transaction so that the stock exchange policy will pursue that no boy or girl will be without access to higher education because he does not have a family situation to allow him, and another one to promote employment in the ICT sector of young people in Greece and to seek the return of young people and girls who may be working abroad on ICT-related issues. There is also a motion for a resolution that talks about incorporating young people into the activities of the primary sector, particularly in fisheries, or encouraging the multifunctional use of the mountain and quality productions that precisely allow them to generate greater added value. As for health, the transactions made with the Socialist Group would like to highlight the role of nursing and pharmacy in the follow-up to chronic diseases, or to work to gain the sustainability of the health system in cooperation with professionals and with citizenship, and to promote education and prevention in health. As far as equality is concerned, we have made a transaction which I believe is important, because we have repeatedly denounced from the Socialist Parliamentary Group in this Parliament the incongruence of having women victims of violence bereavement and that for a part of the year, for a purely administrative matter, such aid is not at the disposal of women victims of violence; because the summons of order comes out in April, or in March at the very best of cases. Well, we finally made a deal to cover up those aids to victims of masculine violence all year round and raise awareness of our society as well in the repulsiveness of trafficking and prostitution. There are some other proposals dealt with by the Socialist Group that have to do with putting seed production farms on the way to encourage the cultivation of bivalves in our country, or with fishing safety, or with the tourism policy of cruises to increase the average stays of tourists and tourists in our country, or on the electronic administration and promotion of ICT in rural areas between youth and in productive sectors. And also about language not only as a heritage, as an identity, but as an opportunity for relations between Galicia and the Lusophony, and also with other territories where it has space for the Galician, as can be lions, stremadura or Asturias. And here ends the deal with the Socialist Group, Counsellor. So most of our motions for resolutions that had to do with the model change that Galicia needs to get out of this worst economic behaviour, these worst figures in terms of comparison with the state's employment and inequality and poverty set, they were all rejected by you. I will quote some who have not accepted to make it clear why the Socialist Group cannot support this strategic plan. Among our priorities was, as we said yesterday, regaining the funding levels of R & D+i and regaining the research capacity of the Greek university system. I'm going to say it again: if we invest more in public R & D, we'll help public R & D to get private R & D. But this, of course, with Mr. Núñez Feijóo's government was not like that at all. We were also talking about strengthening the role of Igape as a financial agent of the Italian productive investment and strengthening the public service of employment, which over the years has been dismantled slowly. And also to define what economic activities should be relaunched in the new production model, or to recover the territorial employment pacts again. And then we told you, Counsellor, that to get out of the situation that Galicia is in need of education, education, education, strengthening an educational system that minimizes school failure, recovers staff and recovers the talent that goes from our country. And to all these proposals and many others you said no, they said not in a context where, I insist, Galicia behaves worse in terms of employment, in terms of economy, in terms of inequality and in terms of poverty than the average state. So, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, unless you radically change your strategy in this debate, we cannot support this strategic plan. On the contrary, we can support both the compromise proposals of the other groups and the motions for resolutions of the other groups which have not been negotiated. And what we must also regret is that the motions for resolutions tabled by the People's Group are so inconcrete, both without any kind of indicator, which prevents us from voting in favour. Because if we did, what we would be doing is contributing, Mr. Puy, to the advertising and propaganda that brings about this strategic plan, which, I insist, in its objectives and in its diagnosis is a whole amendment to all of Mr. Feijóo's governments, although then also this government's behavior with the previous strategic plan has already been seen in what has been left: in the breach of the plan and in practically five years they have deducted almost an economic exercise to pursue the ends of that plan, and which have also been unfulfilled. So we don't think, from the Socialist Group, that with this new plan you're going to have a different behavior. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u179	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u180	Good morning, gentlemen. Yesterday what was discussed was the plan as a whole. It became clear that it was a plan and that, in addition, the Board was actually a plan that met the formal requirements of what is a plan and the substantive requirements. That is, it was a physical document, which had quantifiable elements, an instrument that coordinated the policies of the Union, which contained elements of rationality and prospectivity and which contained, among other things, a good diagnosis of the economy of Galicia. Today everyone referred to this. The diagnosis is the DAFO analysis, which, as everyone knows, are four columns. Weaknesses, threats, fortitudes, and opportunities are put in one. The members of the opposition logically say it's a wonderful diagnosis, but they only cite the weaknesses, they look at the DA and forget about the FO, which is the set analysis, the description analysis of the Greek reality. So things like the following happen. In the DAFO analysis, which has just praised all opposition groups, in the weaknesses in education - referred to by the socialist spokesman - what says is that Galicia has the weakness that presents 18.5% dropout, forgetting that in 2009 it had a 25.8% dropout. So it's a weakness because we have to get to about 10%, but surely that weakness is much weaker than when we get to government. Or, for example, when you say weaknesses in the education system, you forget that this magnificent analysis that you just praised says in the following weakness that Galicia and Spain do not have external and standardized evaluations, which prevents you from having a quality measure of teaching. This measure if you own 24 of the 34 OECD countries, however, you want this weakness potential by suppressing the quality test that was being held today in Galicia. [[Applause]] And if we go to the forts, if the government of Feijóo has to do with weaknesses being weaker, it'll have to do with stronger forts. For example, we have in the education system a public system of effective teaching; a network of centres that allows us to have this basic service near the family home; which places the value of vocational training, which you have left with at least half of the current cycles; a higher academic level than the European average among women, which we especially feel proud of; or, for example, that the number of students per teacher is 9.3% in Galicia, compared to 11.8% in Spain. This is the magnificent analysis, the diagnosis that was praised by all spokesmen of the opposition. We could go on... Mrs. Gallego, I would be grateful if you'd listened to me with at least as much respect as I listened to her, because all I'm doing is reading the plan, the diagnosis, which you just said was magnificent, and which described what the Government of Beijó was leaving. Well, it makes school dropout better and the education system better, of course, than it used to be. We could, for example, continue with agriculture. Among the fortresses, led in the dairy, forestry and fishing sector. Let's keep going. That's what the magnificent diagnosis Mr. Sanchez was praising says. Importance of the agri-food sector, sea-industry complex, in the Greek economy. Wide availability of public research and agroforestry training centres. Availability of a network of agricultural technical offices distributed in the territory. Leader of the dairy and forestry sectors in the Spanish market. Tenreira galega maintains the leadership of the Spanish meat market with quality distinction. Availability of indigenous genetic resources of high merit, especially in the field of meat and wine production. Of course there are problems, of course there are weaknesses, but there are strengths. So, where do the forts come from? Well, just like the weaknesses. If the weaknesses come from the Government of Feijóo, the fortresses also come from the action of the People's Government. And many of them, thanks to an action that was based on the 20102015 Strategic Plan, which was a strategic pioneering plan in Spain, which later followed other autonomous communities such as Murcia, Navarra, et cetera, curiously all those who had a stable government supported by the People's Party, and which at the bottom of the story is that strategic planning, which consists of allocating scarce resources to achieve previously planned results in terms of growth and well-being for people, is a magnificent planning tool. Precisely that conception of what is a plan is what explains our position, both with regard to the amendments we tabled and with those of the opposition. We, as we know that a plan has to include all kinds of actions from the Galician Union, our amendments are to incorporate into strategic planning immigration actions; actions on partial restructuring to increase the size of the rustic farms that are likely to be exploited; or, for example, some of the initiatives launched since the plan began to be developed, such as Agenda 20 for employment, the Strategic Plan of Audiovisual or the Galician Environmental Strategy. And also include the portfolio of social services of family, childhood and adolescence that is being developed. They also explain our position with those of the opposition. The desire for consensus I believe that it became clear from the speeches of the opposition spokesmen, became tremendously clear. And it's striking that they come here and say the transactions we did to say there was no will of consensus. Obviously, there was a desire for consensus, it was a very involved plan, it worked for civil society, it worked for experts... and, of course, when you vote that no, do not vote that not only for a board plan, vote not for a plan in which universities participated, where entrepreneurs participated, where trade unions participated, where civil society participated, and also where you participated by improving it, because we had a month since we were presented in writing until the councillor appeared, another full month to analyse motions for resolutions, and another month more negotiations. That's the time we spent on it, which certainly demonstrated that it was an open plan to the opposition's contributions. There was even a document of 100 pages - as you referred to it - with specific answers to each one of the transactions or to each one of the negatives to the transactions. And the results are that, indeed - as you have just described - with PSOE we have agreed 32 improvements, which we thank, of the Strategic Plan on Equality, Temporary Work, Accreditation of Youth Skills, Employment Reconciliation, Health, Gender Violence, the Primary Sector of Fisheries, Tourism, ICT or Language. With AGE, 29 transactional improvements from the Strategic Plan, and that's what they just said this morning that with PP they don't want to compromise anything. I thank you for putting 29. Trade in proximity, soil, pasture and mountain, local consumption, housing, education, health portfolio, child poverty, gender, accessibility, etc. With BNG, 7 - and 3 which were common with other groups -, business finance, employment policies, mountain and forest production, seafood, etc. And even with the Mixed we agreed 3 in advertising and genre on public television and sheltered. The summary is that, out of the total of 318 specific proposals - not resolution - that I have proposed to the opposition, we accept approximately one fourth - 71 of them - which we thank and believe frankly improves the plan. But this conception of the plan also explains why we don't vote for the others. In that document I have just referred to they have specified the answer to each of them. But I'd like to make general reference to why we don't accept the others. First of all, because many of them were collected. Secondly, because they don't obey the internal logic of what is technically a strategic plan; for example, their specificity or degree of realization. The two fundamental reasons were also clear today in this debate. Firstly, the competition debate. The neighbouring train, coordinating the ports of the State, the public tolls of the State or, for example, the ports or shipyards of the State, obviously cannot be in a strategic plan which has commitments to spend in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Why? Because at the moment, regardless of whether a desire to incorporate into our field of competence or not is incorporated into our sphere of competence, the truth is that they are not in the field of competence. It's hard to develop a strategic plan, which is to apply resources to your skills, and to include things that you don't have in your skills. That would make the strategic plan come true. Of course, there are discrepancies in some of the objectives. We believe that the Greek economy must be open and must increase exports, and that the export balance must be positive because we export more. You want the export balance to be positive by exporting more, but also by importing less, for example, food sovereignty. We, there are principles we don't share. It's true that this is in the plan, and the plan can at some point be modified or improved, if we have the misfortune, and you're lucky to have responsibility for it. And the second main reason why we do not accept many of the amendments that are being tabled is because, if we plan to apply certain resources and real resource developments, with an increase of 2.5 of GDP, and a forecast of increasing resources, we cannot include monetaryly quantified actions that significantly exceed the resources we are going to have in the future. In the case of the Socialist Party - because Bloc and AGE do not put any amount of money - it turns out that the Socialist Party makes us a generic proposal - that we vote that we do not - that is 3.1, that they want to reach the spending levels of the year 2009; that is, the famous €1.7 billion of that we had again this morning in the intervention of the president, that we have and are returning - except this year, that by fulfilling the deficit the state condemns us the interests to be paid - ; and €1.7 billion more. I understand that the 2009 myth for some is... It's the year they lost the election and want to go back to 2009, but surely their proposals are not supported financially. And so it's not supposed to be that, by making a generic proposal to return to 2009, which would involve 1,700 million more, they then make a breakdown of specific amounts, and if a sum of these specific amounts, the sum doesn't give 1,700, what it gives is 1,200. We have two costs of accepting amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u181	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u182	...that, in any case, obviously, are not acceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a participatory, solvent, adaptive strategic plan that you will be able to reform in the future, and certainly for the goals that you pursue, very ambitious. It will be useful even for those who laugh now that we are going to approve this magnificent document. It will be useful to rule who governs. We are sure that we will have the responsibility to implement this strategic plan as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of motions for resolutions
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u183	Thank you, Mr. Puy. After the debate on the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, we shall vote. I propose that we vote in accordance with the following scheme. First, we will vote on motion for resolution No. 1 of the Joint Group, which seeks to reject the plan; then we can vote together on the proposals that have been negotiated; and then we can also vote together on the motions for resolutions that are not dealt with by the various groups. If they think it's right, we'll start. Motion for a resolution No. 1 of the G.P. Mixed (Doc. # 48142), on the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020, which seeks to reject the plan. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This proposal is therefore rejected. Joint vote on the proposed resolutions on the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. These proposals are therefore adopted unanimously. Joint vote on G.P.'s non-transactional motions for resolutions. Joint on the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected. Joint vote on G.P.'s non-transactional motions for resolutions. of the Alternative Left Galeg on the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected. Joint vote on G.P.'s non-transactional motions for resolutions. of the Galego Nationalist Block on the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected. Joint vote on G.P.'s non-transactional motions for resolutions. of the Galician Socialists on the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. The vote was taken and resulted in the following: votes in favour, 31; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These proposals are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u184	We are now voting on the motions for resolutions of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group. Joint vote on G.P.'s non-transactional motions for resolutions. Galician People on the Galician Strategic Plan 2015-2020. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 31. The voting is positive. These motions for resolutions are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u185	The Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020 is therefore approved. We continue with the agenda, with point 5, which corresponds to interpelerations. Da Ana Belén's interrogation Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Galician Union on linguistics
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u186	Mrs. Pontón has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. President, very late. Counselor, today we do this questioning before what seems to us to be a horrendous silence. And it is that you, at the most responsible for the language policy of the Greek Government, have never come into this Chamber specifically to talk about this matter, and at least when we have very worrying data, not only about the evolution of the language but also about the flagrant non-compliances of legality by your government, non-compliances that we could encrypt within the scope of the Law on Linguistic Standardization. But today we do this about an aspect like the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages, a letter which, as you know, is a European treaty which was ratified by the Spanish State in 2001, and which, in addition, represents a policy of minimum requirements in support of languages which do not have their recognition as state languages, which is the situation that happens to them in the Greek language. We do this, in addition, after a demolition report, not only from the Committee of Experts, but also from the Council of Europe itself, which leaves...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u188	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u189	I know it's time to eat, and it's an hour when a lot of things are going on inside of us, but... yeah, yeah, Mr. Feijó went out to eat, okay? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u190	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u191	Because you miss a lot of people from the opposition, but as much as you're responsible for the language policy of the Greek Government, you don't miss it. So, at least, I don't know, I suppose the same defendant finger pointing out there should point to what you have before you. In any case, the problem and our concern is what's happening to the Welsh language, and what's the responsibility of the Galician Union in this situation. And in that sense, what we believe is that what we cannot follow is the old-fashioned policy that has been practised by the Union and by the politics of lies and manipulation that you have come to do in relation to reality, the very reality of reports and documentation sent to Europe. I have had the opportunity these days to read the official report by the Government of the State and sent it to the Commission and the Council of Europe to assess the degree of compliance with the European Charter of Languages. And the truth is, it's demolition and sad to read the report you send, because I imagine the report sent by the Central Government is a report based on your own documentation sent by the Galician Board. I have to say that it seems very serious to us that you lie, for example, on page 60, when you say that the spending on bending to the Greek of CRTVG annually amounts to 3.3 million euros, when in your own parliamentary headquarters you have recognized that this figure has been reduced in a very serious way, and that even in the last year no film has been translated into Greek by CRTVG, which is simply translating series. There is therefore a very important deficiency and a fallback in that area, and they come here sending false information to the Council of Europe itself. They are much more, I would say, bloody some other evaluations that are made, for example, in relation to the media, where you skillfully convert the symptoms of the problem that there is -- for example the backlog in the field of the media -- into positive news. It's, of course, a whole symptom of how you try to manipulate reality. Specifically they say, as a positive fact, that was born the first association of English media in 2013, a means to promote and coordinate the English media. When really the Association of Media in Galicia was born to criticize the policy of drowning that you were doing in the media, to denounce the steps behind it in the field of the presence of Greek in the media, with the disappearance of newspapers and with a policy of allocating public money, in theory, to linguistic normalization in the written press, which is not justified because it never advances the Greek in that field but clearly hides another kind of purpose. I'm also very grateful for some of the issues that are raised in this report, which are actually being denied every day. How can you say you don't care if you make your mortgage in English that in Spanish, that there's no kind of problem! The experience says--denunciated facts--that anyone, to be able to record in a note his mortgage in Greek, like half afternoon two or three weeks or another month. Because there's a constant practice that's slowing down in many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, So with this kind of data, actually, we've already checked how you're sending false information about the reality of Greek, and manipulating in a gross way the reality that exists in this field. Fortunately, from the point of view of the experts who follow the implementation of the Charter, they speak not only to the Council of Galicia, but also to other entities who dismantle the lies that the Government officially sends to the Council of Europe. And it is very surprising that among these lies are some related to another subject of what we have talked about a lot in this Parliament, because we are concerned, as is the situation of Greek in teaching. And in that sense, in this fourth report, which does not only the Committee of Experts but also ratifys the Council, which is recriminalizing the steps that the Government of Galician Union has taken in teaching and in the matter of the presence of the Greek in teaching, which they are also saying violates the principles of the European Charter. I know you're also saying that we handle the reports. And so today, what we're going to read is exactly what the Committee of Experts says not only but what the Council has endorsed, which is the first time it does and which has a very important transcendence about the teaching situation. What it says is that Decree 79/2100 limits teaching in English to a maximum of 50%, with the ultimate goal of ending it by reducing it to a third. This is a clear contradiction to the commitments made by the authorities within the framework of the Charter, which calls for education predominantly in Greek. And he also says other things that I think are very important, because he continues to say that they continue to hide information from the Council of Europe itself about the situation of language in educational institutions. In particular, you warn them that, according to the information you are providing, it is not real information, because they base the data they send to the Council of Europe in a computer application, in the XADE application, which is not considered a real and reliable assessment of the presence of Welsh in education. And the Government refuses to provide independent studies. In the absence of specific information on the relevant oversight bodies for the purposes of the Charter and for the production and publication of periodic reports, the Committee of Experts maintains its prior conclusion and considers that this objective has not been met. So we are faced with a very clear position of the European institutions, which is what they are saying that the Greek Government is not only practicing a policy of language reduction and attack, but is also violating legality and the current framework, that there is a failure to comply with the Charter which has very negative consequences for our country. There is a lack of compliance with education, non-compliance with justice, non-compliance with media or even non-compliance with basic rights, as social services offer themselves to speakers in English with the possibility of being received and cared for in their language. I'll ask you something very specific, Counselor. I don't know if it seems normal to you that in the face of a prediction of a letter that says you should ensure that social services are offered to speakers in English, in your language, the report you send is: "As detailed in Spain's third report of compliance with the Charter, the official language of external communication and the labelling of health centres dependent on Sergas is the Galician." That is, you think there's a labelling that puts "health center" on the obligation and the right that Galicians have to be treated in their language throughout the social services system, including health care. Besides, we know that this has a very important therapeutic mission that is being studied and that there were even recommendations in Sergas. Unfortunately in ten minutes, it doesn't give us time to explain in greater detail all the contents of this report and the warnings being made to them on a frame of minimums such as the European Charter of Languages. In any case, what we want to know today is whether the recommendations of the Committee of Experts and the Council will be followed, and above all something will be done to change a policy that has been shown that for the only thing that is effective is to reduce the presence of Greek. The Greek is the most important creation we have as a people, as a community, and it really hurts a lot...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u193	...to have a government that currently considers that Greek must be a second language and perpetuates a policy of discrimination and marginalization of our language. I'm convinced that at some point the people will be the one to judge a fact of such gravity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u194	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Pontón, allow me first to congratulate you on the fact that your party, UPGBNG, was elected as a candidate for the presidency of the Council of Galicia. I want you to have a good result, because BNG, you and your formation, despite being a political formation that's in our ideological antipods, is a fiancee party. It's a much more trusted party than some convenience weddings, though they now call them confluences or they call them instrumentals, which you see at the first exchange they change as a couple. I'm much more confident of you, and we wish you a good result.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u196	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u197	And, of course, Mrs. Pontón, the presence and debate of this initiative here today is not a coincidence, it cannot be a coincidence. I don't know if that's why I've just said it, or because of the proximity of the letters in Wales, to the proximity of this evemeride that unites us all. And I don't even know if your concern is sincere, since this report is a report that was presented in January. Today we're in the middle of May. There were many full to bring this initiative. And I also want to tell you that this document has been studied and worked in this House. The Secretary-General for Linguistic Policy in mid-February came to this House to talk about it. That's why I'm saying I don't know if it's just a coincidence or just an attempt to shake a flag and mobilize nationalism from a vision we understand that totally wrong of what our language is. And, Mrs. Pontón, when you make those statements about the failure to comply with the Charter and what we do illegalities, I don't know how you understand this failure to comply with a letter, which is a statement of principles, and yet you call insubmission on an organic law. I don't really know what qualification could be applied. In any case, Mrs. Pontón, it gives the impression, so I have just said, that this debate comes here only for a mere political party interest, and for a habitual attempt on the Block to take advantage of the language and try to generate a problem, alarm about a problem, and at the same time put itself as the solution. Because we've said so many times, and I won't get tired of saying it, that the Greek, like other signs of identity, Mrs. Pontón, is not the Nationalist Block, it's all the Greeks. You forget that it is the language of the Greeks, of all, also of the PP and the PSOE, that we decide, or decide, in absolute freedom to speak in Greek and without any problem in the street and without any kind of problem anywhere. And you are also familiar with the evaluation that you have made in respect of this fourth report by the Committee of Experts on the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. I'm going to reiterate here some arguments already put forward in this House and regret that in your presentation you only talk about the negative, only talk about what remains, and not talk about those aspects that are in the report itself and which add up, that you didn't talk about the positive aspects. Look, this document congratulates the Spanish State and says textually that the situation has improved considerably over the previous year, the year 2012 - literally -. This fourth report says that there is a very high level of protection of regional and minority languages in Spain from other countries. It is also true that it has some shortcomings in the co-official use of languages in areas such as justice or health, although it affects more autonomous communities than Galicia. It also highlights, among the positive, that in Galicia we have language with the best percentages of knowledge of all the so-called minority languages in Europe, far above the Breton or Catalan. And he also tells us that there is an increase in the number of private media that broadcast their programming in their own language-- literally the report--. As he also says, there is a remarkable increase in the use of Greek in cultural activities. He also says there's a certain degree of moderation in areas such as business, business or economic. But you only see the negative part and you focus your message only on the negative part, creating a speech that to some extent is quite false. It also says - and we can ratify - that the Spanish State, and of course the Galician Union, is fulfilling the Charter. And in the recommendations of the Council of Europe - which makes six recommendations - perhaps one of the most important - in which you have made the fincapé too - it has to do with the educational model. It literally says the fifth recommendation "which is due" - as a recommendation for the State - "to continue to ensure that the supply of trilingual education does not adversely affect the protection and promotion of regional or minority languages". Say "continue to guarantee", "continue to ensure". That means that learning and knowledge of the language is already guaranteed in the education system. Another thing different--in which we do not share the vision of the Charter, and a letter is not an organic law, Mrs. Pontón--is that what we do not share is the model of the Committee's experts, which is a model of virtually monolinguistic immersion. We don't share it, it's not our model, we say. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He doesn't say, he doesn't. Nor does she say, Mrs. Pontón, that this model is bad or much less. And you also know that the monolingual immersion model is not possible in Galicia. Why? Because there's a Standardization Act of 1983 that expressly prevents it. Expressly, it prevents the separation of children and children because of the language they speak. It must also be borne in mind that our model - and we have said it many times - is based on a decree that is socially endorsed, was subjected to two very important tests, to two electoral processes. It fits the legality. For us, it is an outdated debate. And above all, it has an important question: that ensures a balance of the two co-official languages, and it works with absolute normality and ensuring a balance. There's some data you know - it's also in that data that only takes the ones you're interested in - about the use and increase of Greek. The data of the year 2014 published in the IGE tell us that Galicia has the highest level of knowledge of Welsh, oral knowledge and written knowledge, and that 97% can use it and read it. Say it. We have the highest level of knowledge of the English language in history. And they also say this data that we're talking about that Greek is Galician majority language. Now, if you get here, as you did, questioning the XADE data, I honestly don't know if you know XADE or if the experts on this committee know what XADE is. Because talking cheerfully about XADE and saying that there's manipulation in XADE is really having no idea what you're saying. [[Murmurs.]] It'd be better to try to give a greater degree of truth to a report made by anyone, by experts, etc. Questioning XADE is really an aberration from any given point of view. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Which I'm telling you, and I recommend that these people see the XADE. In short, this government and the political training that sustains it, however, shares a question with you. I share with you that Greek is the greatest collective creation of our people -- we share it -- and that its promotion and its projection is a responsibility of governments, political parties, public institutions, the whole of society. Now, each and every one of us has to be aware of the importance of language employment and also of language use. Because, of course, if you're talking here and you're throwing messages to the citizenship that the Welshman-- of course, you don't say that either this party or this government or I say it, or much less-- it's a second language, you're making it a weak, weak favor to the Greek language, because you're contributing to the contempt of it. And that's what I really know is not your intention, but that message ultimately shuts up in society and you, with that catastrophic, pessimistic message, does him a weak favor. Ladies and gentlemen, the English, the language, it's everyone's. And no one should try to get close to her. The language - we have said it here and I have said it here many times - must serve to unite, is a vertebrate axis of the Galician society. And all these principles, this vision, have been shared in this case by the People's Parliamentary Group not long ago. On July 15, 2015, we all supported a statement, and in that statement, motivated by the 150th anniversary of Rosalía de Castro, it was literally said: "Language is the best common instrument that we have ever created and all the Greeks, it is a necessity for us to advance together the generations present in all fields, in culture, in education, in social progress, in economic and political. " I think we must recover this spirit, we must work on what unites us and not what separates us. And as of today, to take out flags to try to take advantage of something that is from everyone, Mrs. Pontón, I think it's not the most prudent or the most positive for our language at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u198	Thank you, Mr. Rodríguez. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I, Counselor, the first thing I have to regret is his lack of political elegance and height, I have to tell you so, and come here, in an inquiry on such a serious subject as the future of language, to make Mr. Tellado's sad imitator--now absent in this rostrum.-- I imagine you're already in the succession career to see if you ever become a secretary general of the People's Party. I wish you luck, Counsellor, because of course your way of coming here to debate this Parliament because it qualifies how you conceive the responsibility of ruling. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] And it's doing opposition to the opposition all the time. Keep it that way, they're running out of time. What we expect, in any case, is that within a few months they're sitting on the opposition bench, comfortably on that paper, which is what they like most, to make opposition. I'm also sorry that you're loaded here with the topics of the People's Party's whole life with regard to the language situation. If they want to take the flag from the Greek, they take it, but they don't take it to betray the language. They take the flag of Greek to defend our language and abandon the policy of lies that has hurt this country so much. Because who did the most damage to the Greek language was Mr. Feijóo when he went up on the sign saying that the Greek was being imposed on Spanish and that here was a very serious problem because in this country, in Galicia, people couldn't speak in Spanish, who were being pursued by Spanish speakers. It really seems to me that what you should do is to get out, stop stepping on so many carpets and go on the street, get on the side of people who for wanting to sign in Sergas a role in Greek for an operation delay their operation; get on the side of children and children who for using the Galician center sent them home because the Greek couldn't be used in those facilities; get on the side of women who have just finished their career, who are going to seek work and who tell them that as they intend to hire them they will enter into a lawyer's office speaking in German. This, Counselor, is happening in this country. We've denounced him, and you're what they do is constantly looking to the other side. Because Greek is just as dignified as the rest of the world's languages, exactly the same, but it is that it has discriminatory treatment in the Spanish state. To begin with, because you're not legally defending that both the Greek and the Spanish have the same deal, don't defend it, of course not. You defend for Spanish the right and duty of use; however, for Greek you don't defend it, do you? Because they know that's the weapon to keep our tongue in a subordinate position. Or are you willing to sign that we sign a law in which it is said that legal equality must be given to both languages? That's what you have to tell us, but they're unwilling and what they want is to maintain a situation of legal and social inequality for the Greek language, because that's for you that is strategic in your political position. And look, Counselor, you can come here to manipulate but people can read and then you can read the report made by the Council of Europe. It's a fortune, because, actually, leave them in very bad place. He says here that the Council of Europe agrees with the language policy of the Galician Union, which tells them they are complying with the European Charter. Well, I say exactly the opposite. It's literally said they're not meeting the goals of primary and secondary education. They say they have to amend the decree of multilingualism because it does not comply with the requirements set out in the Charter. And because in no case can the learning of a foreign language go to the detriment of the learning of a language itself. You're also fooling people, because in the Spanish education system there's no trilinguism, and you know it. We've already talked here about what the implementation of the decree means, which means they're giving a lot of money to private centers while there's no real bet in public centers for foreign language teaching. Because all they're doing in many places is giving the vocabulary of plastics, of pretechs, in English. And so they're also fooling people in that sense and using this as a shield to justify a policy that only seeks that the Greek has less and less presence in teaching. And that's it, Counselor, what we care about, what we care about and what we want to change. We want to change the discrimination and marginalization that you want to subject to our language, a language in which, in fact, there are many Greeks and Greeks who love it from different ideologies. But what we're not going to allow and what we're not going to tolerate is to be told that we can't defend the Greek, which is what you came here to do today in this gallery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u201	Thank you very much. Well, Mrs. Pontón, I just wanted to congratulate you on your nomination as a candidate. He doesn't seem to like it, and he seems to be angry. If you're angry about that and you understand that I missed you about it, I ask you to retire from the Session Diary. But I just congratulated her on her nomination as a candidate for Galician Union. From there on, then, you can interpret and you can say whatever you want. But, well, there was no bad intention in all this matter, Mrs. Pontón. [[Murmurs.]] Look, you're talking about topics and, of course, the Block already specializes in talking about remove topics and put them on. But I'll tell you something we'll probably agree with. He'll agree with me that in the last few decades, it's been very advanced, it's been very advanced. And it has advanced in the major agreements that govern society: in the Spanish Constitution, in the Statute of Autonomy, in the Law of Standardization, in the General Plan of Standardization. I believe that there these great umbrellas normalized, empowered and took the language of Galicia to places where it's never been before. And you're talking about discrimination. The Statute, which you have not voted for, defines that Galicia has two official languages and one of its own languages. You didn't vote for it. In any case, in which case you may be quiet, Mrs. Pontón, it is in which this government is working on everything that has to do with the empowerment and the put in value of the Greek language, as it cannot be otherwise. And he's trying to make promotion policies in those areas where the language of Galicia has a lower use, we've said it on many occasions. And you're talking about teaching. Look, the education system in Galicia fortunately has no conflict over the indiscriminate use of one language or another, there's a very, very reasonable balance. And above all, the objectives are met: to ensure knowledge. That's really what you're trying to do. And I'm surprised you're talking about persecution in a language. I'm going to tell you, in this case, that fortunately it's not happening in Galicia what happens in other autonomous communities, fortunately, where there are persecutions in languages, where there are cracking down on families or children who want their children's learning to be one of the official languages. This is happening in some communities governed by nationalist parties. And that's never, never, ever gonna happen here. [[Applause]] There will be no persecution or harassment, there will be no persecution. Look, we've made a lot of progress in the media, in the administration, in justice and, in general, in society. There's obviously a lot to go on, there's a lot to go on. Now, as we have also said on repeated occasions, we ask them to stop using Welsh as a political tool, to abandon controversy, to abandon politicization, to abandon partisan use. Because that posture doesn't work for the Greek. You have defined here the Greek--trying to pass it on to us, as we say--as it is a second language. We'll never say that. You say it, and that's a tremendously bad message, because the Welshman, Mrs. Pontón, what I need, I think it's sweet, that we have tenderness in how to approach this language, and what we need is a shared work, a work where we must deepen and--I will repeat it and I will repeat it always--that leads us to work in what unites us and not in what separates us. That's really what we understand what we have to do. And with you sometimes it gives the feeling -- using a comparison to that of "the letter with blood" -- that the tongue with blood comes in. And it's not like that, it's not like that, because something as intimate, as voluntary and as free as using a language or another is not going to depend on the Nationalist Block saying one thing or the PP saying another, it's going to depend on the freedom of individuals. And as you think in the end, with almost negationist attitudes of reality, which there is no Greek, which speaks ill of the Greek, which does not power, etc., because they are actually hurting him because they are putting him in a bad place. I believe, and so we believe it from the Government, is that we must work and push it in those areas where there is greater weakness. And we recognize it, there are certain social sectors where there is weakness and we're working on them. For example, in the socio-economic field there is a certain weakness. We're making a dynamization plan in that area -- by the way, developing the General Standardization Plan --. We're also working in an area that we're very concerned about, which is the scope of youth. Young people can speak English, but they want to talk, which is quite different. But they know. The education system is able to teach our young, absolutely capable. And what we have to do is, with a kind and positive perspective, empower actions in different areas of youth to speak Greek in their everyday life...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u203	...to talk about it through new technologies, social networks, sports, etc. Because in the end what is negative, Mrs. Pontón--and even contradictory for her part, who on many occasions defend the Standardization Plan--is to fall into a mistake, which is that they are always practicing a sort of victimism. And that says the general plan itself, that no victimism should be practiced. And, ladies and gentlemen, to finish, there's an important question, and if we want society to speak more Greek, what we have to be aware of is that we have to send positive messages about Greek. If you're constantly projecting red lines on the Greek...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u205	...during the use of the Greek, the end of the xe will associate the Greek with the Block and think it's your language. And no, the Greek, fortunately, is a language of all. And we're all proud to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u206	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m. [[The session is suspended at 2:30 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.]] Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the supply of industrial soil
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u207	Mr. Losada has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u208	Thank you, President. I see there's a concern about arithmetic on the People's Group bench, which I like. [[Murmurs.]] I'm saying it because they're counting, and the learning procedures are fine, they're always fine. I... [[Murmurs.]] Well, considering that in the control intervention to the president of Junta this morning, who was on the labour market, he talked about chairs, cars and advisers, I feel perfectly legitimized to talk about yachts, drug traffickers and winners, but quiet, Mr. President, that I will not, because we are still a little different from each other. Counsellor, you said two very relevant things yesterday in this line of progress, in the scientific knowledge to which the Government of Greece has used us, the first said that you resolved instead of turning around, I want to show you a photo of PLISAN; indeed a clear example of resolution in front of the revolution, is 17 meters deep, a hole of nothing, as you well know. Then he said, too, that you were numbers, I'm sure that if you're numbers and you like numbers, because you'll be in a position to, when you talk numbers here, tell us the sources of those numbers, tell us where they come from, what official publication provides them. This explanation has to do with one of the key factors in the industrial policy of any country, and the situation of industry is obviously known, there is a demand crisis that does not really have to do with its counseling, but that is there, even though the Government of Greece and the President - speaking to us about the economic environment of this autonomous community - because practically they forget it and we are unable to understand that there are very serious economic problems in a growing percentage of population, whether by rising levels of wage levels, by extremely long-term unemployment rates, by freezing pensions... in the end, all those small details without the importance that make society ever more unequal and poorer. I insist, details of no importance. But there's supply problems, too, Counselor. We talk here many times about problems with energy costs, and there's a fundamental problem that really corresponds to your negotiation, and that's the theme of industrial floor. There is in this autonomous community, beyond general deficiencies, a very serious imbalance between supply and demand for industrial soil. There's probably a supply of excess industrial floor in areas where there's no demand or where demand is weaker, and yet there's an absolute shortage of industrial floor in areas where, indeed, this demand is very high. And that undoubtedly explains some of the situations in which the Greek economy is at present, beyond that radical optimism of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. Then even data appeared, I insist - official data in this case - that Galicia invested in other countries more than five times the foreign capital it received. I think it would be good to reflect on why this happens, despite the policies of internationalization, of what we are talking about constantly here, that your fellow Government, Mr. Francisco Conde, because it shows as paradigms of successes in economic policy and that we all know that they have to do exclusively with the increase in the demand of two industrial sectors and the economic results of two major companies, PSA Peugeot Citroën and Index, the rest goes, at least, discreet, and I think I am being moderate. Also from industry 4.0, which also has to do with industrial floor, because we all know -- that's the spokesperson of the Alternative Left Galeg sometimes -- that 4.0 means wrong mechanism or failed mechanism, but even if they're failed, they have to be installed somewhere. And we also have the latest data from information technology and telecommunications industries. 14,000 jobs, which are true that they didn't come down, but it's true that they didn't grow up, considering that it's one of the emerging sectors of which, by the way, you talk a lot about the strategic plan that you approved this morning and that moves about 2% of GDP. Again the Industrial Floor Plan and the difficulties of industrial floor, but then, yes, what we have is advertising and propaganda, pages and pages paid in newspapers. Greek pemmes seek to improve management and scan their processes to grow--they have to tell Mr. Feijóo's government advertisers that what they are looking for is industrial floor--but in addition to seeking to improve management and scan their processes, they seek industrial ground, they seek something as basic and as elementary as the places to install themselves. And, of course, Counsellor, in this context, and despite what the President of the Union says, industry data is frankly bad. The number of people currently busy in the industry, and I'm going to give the two data -- because this morning Mr Feijóo was told in a report of diversifying statistical sources about EPA and for registering, I think he confused the subject a little bit -- in any case the number of EPA's busy people is 157,900, exactly the same as three years ago, and the number of registered members in Social Security, because it's actually always a little bit less than EPA, it's 131,000. That's right, also exactly a thousand more than three years ago. Therefore, three years lost, or at least not won, at least not won. So, those absolutely triumphal speeches of what you're talking about, I'd like them to be tinted as much as possible. And in this context of difficulties in adjusting between supply and demand, because we have no doubt found ourselves on empty ground, three million square meters that cost us the Greeks and the Greeks about 500 million euros of investment, and without any doubt we have found ourselves with a clearly wrong territorial strategy in terms of supply and demand. The Costa da Morte, Ferrolterra, the provinces of Lugo and Ourense and the border area appear as priority areas. The demand for industrial floor is mainly located in the border area of the province of Pontevedra. And, unfortunately, we all know exactly what the situation is. There's practically no industrial floor, Counselor, and PLSAN, the chronology I think you've already met. It began in 2000, 187 months ago, these 187 months, the People's Party in Galicia ruled twelve years and the Socialist Party three and a half years ago, I say, because when it tells us that everything is the fault of Tourin and Zapatero, I hope that you will be able - who knows numbers - to make an index of mathematical correction that allows to adjust the period of government of one and another; I insist, twelve years of government of the PP and three and a half years of the Government of the Socialist Party. Since the year 2009, Counsellor Mrs.--I have been there still fifteen days ago--nothing, the explanation that has been done, the earth movements have been made in the government of Emilio Pérez Touriño, and since then you have taken photos, they have made some travel, some presentation, at last, these gear things that are good too, but until almost a month and a half there there were no machines, and fifteen days ago, in working hours, I assure you, there--and I have bothered to go through the perimeter, which, as you know, is perfectly bound by a little paved road--four; except that there are underground jobs, which can also, on surface four. Yes, you started by saying already in 2014 that there would be a first phase project in which general services would cost 18 million euros on 11102014, and all this press release information from Galician Union. I think you can thus understand the confusion that this humble spokesman has in front of this profusion of ads. On 27122014 the Board shall fix for the first quarter of 2015 the bidding of PLISAN works and undertake to invest 44 million euros. 1722015 says it's going to act on 72 hectares and it's going to invest 16 million euros, 44 of us down to 16. I'm sure there's an explanation, Counselor, and that's why I'd like to thank you, so that's why I'm asking you, of course. On 562014, the Galego Institute of Living and Solo in this Parliament says that it could not offer dates or concrete projects, I insist, eight months ago there were dates, projects, budgets and, so I see, also phases, but it is seen that the phases were in the field of privacy, because the Head lady of the Galego Institute of Living and Only in this Parliament was not able to talk about these phases. I'm glad...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u209	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u210	...end, Mr President - that we are now talking about those phases. On 152015 the Council of the Union says it will bid the urbanization of those 70 hectares for 13.5 million euros. A photo is taken on September 19th. October 22 takes another picture. That one with a great display: minister, advisor, delegate of the Franc Zone, at last, the entire executive staff. And this is the schedule, Counselor, since then a lake of 17 meters deep and four excavators. I'd like to know what you have to tell economic agents who desperately need industrial floor in the southern province of Pontevedra.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u211	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u212	Thank you, President. Mr. Losada, photos of this same morning in different states of the work, are more than four machines, of course there are more than four machines. I'll send you all the photos, a lot more, the truth is, you stop nothing at all, in works, you want to teach you, nothing happens. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u213	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u214	In different parts of PLISAN, they know they're many square meters. [[Applause]] In any case, make it quite clear that little reality has their claims. What this government did, of course, was to push the Logistics Platform... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u215	A little respect.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u216	...Salvaterra-As Neves, we are involved in three administrations: Joining Galicia with 18%, Harbour Authority with 61% and Free Zone with 21%, and of course we had to work hard, hard work, to overcome the countless traps in PLISAN. I also make a brief account, and I hope it coincides with your dates: December 2014, replenishment of the condominium regime; new step in February 2015, environmental process of the first works; March 2015, because we have to comply with the legislation and the procedures, we sign the replacement agreement for the condominium. In April 2015 we signed the document setting the obligations between the three administrations: Harbour Authority, Joint and Free Zone for the bidding of works. In May 2015, works are called for the urbanization of this first phase of the general system of PLSAN. On October 21st, the works began permanently, to advance in the development of PLSAN, made unquestionable, and, of course, there is no turning back. This without forgetting the more than 20 million euros we did to connect PLSAN to A52 through a high-performance route. You know there's a high-capacity track to connect to PLSAN's A52. Therefore, Mr. Losada, paralysis of PLSAN nothing at all, I don't know if it's ignorance, perhaps, what you have; nothing at all--I'm sorry you're upset--because we were able to solve the PLSAN blockade, we were able to solve it. I'm going to tell you, exactly, what we found in 2009--because yes, in three and a half years that tells you that he ruled the Bipartite, in three and a half years look what you did, look what you did-- we found the land rise of the PLISAN executed, yes, but without budgeting and without paying from the council. We found that the Galician Council was no longer the holder of any rights of PLSAN, because you sold you to Xestur to fund the Housing and Sole Council through the indebtedness of public society. We found ourselves solving the condominium regime, only in three and a half years, look at all they did, and it made rational development of PLSAN impossible, and you also negotiated with the old owners without knowledge and without consent of the rest of the other two administrations, of their partners of PLSAN, which is the Franc Zone and the Harbour Authority. They negotiated at the expense of the other promoters who would pay 7 million euros of mine rights. Seven million euros of mine rights that negotiated without the consent of the other three parties, and that then there were reports of the State Counsel and also of the General Legal Counsel of Galicia that were following criteria for those 7 million who were really illegal. So that's the inheritance of you, you qualify for inheritance as you want, there's the background, what you've done in three and a half years. That's why the first thing we had to do was pay the pending bills, pay outstanding invoices of 5.3 million euros of that land movement, which was indeed done, but without paying. We wrote and approved the modification of PLISAN's sectoral project. We recovered to the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo the title of those lands that had sold the Bipartite to Xestur, and you know perfectly well the slab that Xestur had with the Bipartite, because it left her in absolute bankruptcy. So this government has already worked and is working with two directions: legal security, which turns PLSAN into the industrial soil referent, legal security through different actions, paying the land to the owners; we have paid 7.4 million euros, we have in processing 1.5 million euros, and in the coming months we will continue to pay the old owners. The beginning of the retroaction of the expropriatory file to include mine rights, in accordance with a judgement of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, and the return to the condominium, ensuring the effective and balanced participation of the three administrations that needed to develop PLSAN. Between the three administrations we have invested, since 2009, 7.8 million euros, without counting the 5.3 that we had to pay off debts paid by this land movement that made the Bipartite. On the other hand, we work to make available to the entrepreneurs these land, industrial soil, so we are running the urbanization works of PLSAN at this first stage. As mentioned earlier, in April 2015 we agreed among the three administrations involved the obligations for the bidding of these works; in May 2015 they were licit; on December 21, the works were started - these works of urbanization of general systems, know that they are roads, lighting, pipelines, supplies, sanitation and telecommunications - to leave enabled 700,000 square meters, which is the area closest to the link to that high-providing channel to connect with A52. Drives for more than 3.7 kilometers and paved surface of 110,000 square meters. So, works in progress, stopped at nothing, we're moving according to schedule, they're working today more than 50 people in the area, and right now there's around 30 machines mobilized. The action with an 18-month execution deadline, investment 13.5 million euros, the goal is to finish them in 2017. This is not the only action, also at the last meeting of the PLISAN follow-up commission it was agreed to propose the drafting of the preliminary draft of the EDAR debugger to ETAP, the sewage debugger to the drinking water treatment station, so that the institute subsequently bids this project contest and works to give to ETAP, so the phases it commented on to develop the PLISAN. And also the urbanization of the first phase, of the LE area, the business logistics zone, so you can start installing companies in 2017. It is therefore believed that the paralysing of PLSAN is nothing, the works are under way and there is, of course, no going back. Of course, the truth, it might be earlier, we agreed that the works might be earlier if the government than you were part of had not done this management in three and a half years, which I have already commented on, because they put the logistics platform in total danger. If it hadn't, if the condominium hadn't been solved, if the condominium had not been solved, of course this would have been much more advanced. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u217	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u218	In any case, at Junta we are aware of the importance of business soil, and we are acting on lines of work, in boosting the logistics platform.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u219	Quiet, please. Quiet, Mr. Gallego, please! That's good!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u220	They know that last year we are already starting with incentives for the bonus of business soil in Galicia, which in Galicia reaches up to 50 %. At the end of 2015, also since the 50 % industrial floor bonuses, we have also put in place a new formula, the surface right, sure that you know this measure, a pioneering measure, which consists in a form similar to a rental at symbolic price with right to purchase, and an annual canon for 30 years and expandable to another 30 years, and that during the first 10 years there is right to purchase. The goal is to facilitate the implementation of new projects, to reduce investment risks in the first few years, which is when the investment is to be made to install the company, because in addition to the first year, we allow it to be a year of shortage, therefore to zero euro square metre. That's right, bonuses and surface rights. In the province of Pontevedra, in the south, the average purchase is EUR 35 square metre thanks to these bonuses, the canon or the average surface right is 90 cents per square metre. So the price of business soil is not the reason that certain companies settle in northern Portugal, instead of doing so in Galicia, as your written question says; I don't know if that's the model you're defending, it's the 50-year-old model that reigns in Portugal. We do modern business parks, with all services, and not in Portugal the prices of the business soil are a bargain that some want to show us. We can set a lot of examples, but I don't have a lot of time either. In any case, what I have to tell you is that we put industrial soil in the most advantageous conditions, as well as PLISAN will have it, the first 100,000 square meters of PLISAN will be at a bonus price, at 50 square meters, because it was already an agreement of the Board of Directors. You can also access PLSAN through the surface right, with an annual symbolic cannon. So, working seriously, decisively to get these first companies in PLSAN to settle down as soon as possible. So I insist, paralysed PLISAN, nothing at all. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u221	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u222	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Counselor, I'm very sorry, but I couldn't take pictures of PLISAN this morning, I admit I was here in full and I couldn't go taking pictures, I don't know if there are now 50 people and 30 machines, 15 days ago there weren't. [[Laughter]] If they are today, welcome, perfect! 15 days ago they weren't, I insist, I don't lie, they weren't, unless they were in the pond that doing underground drainage jobs, which can also be, because lack will do them. Look, the disaster is so, Counselor, I don't know if it's been there, that the catches of the cantanillas are at a level of almost 2 meters below the road, they have so much work to do there, that the deadlines you give them are pure and simple of laughter, for many engineers to assure you. I, first of all, want to know the dates of possible legal installation of companies at PLSAN, because for the water treatment station and for the water supply station there is not even the approved project, Madam Counsellor. So what are you talking about? I'm going to give you the dates again, because it looks like he said something about you being modern and that we wanted the Portuguese model, the truth is... at last. Let's leave it. [[Laughter]] No, no, the page's got it perfectly. On 11 and October 2014, the first phase project, the first PowerPoint, in 2014, year and a half ago, was going to be auctioned. On December 27, the Board - the Board, not this spokesman, nor the opposition groups - fixed for the first quarter of 2015 - that is, one year ago, Counsellor - the bidding of the works of PLSAN. I repeat, I know you're going to tell me they're phases, now it's not clear what the first stage was, the second stage, encounters in the third round. What if they first spoke of 44 million and then spoke of 16. So, I ask you, what's the difference? And so what don't they do in this first phase? I think it's pretty easy, if you like numbers, it's a matter of staying, you don't even have to be an engineer, huh? Finally, basic arithmetic. Again photos, March 5, 2015, more than a year ago. They're so disastrous that on the same day, in two simultaneous press releases, the Galician board spoke of 16 million euros and the Ministry of Development of 36. I insist, meet in phase three. The board spoke of 16 million euros and the Ministry of Development of 36, and it wasn't an investment of one and another, it was the total investment, it can review the notes. Anyway, I insist that I have no condition for fantastic literature. On April 9, a month later, again agreed to bid the works, another press release from the Board, is already EUR 20.5 million. 4 million euros more in a month. What are these four million euros, advisor? I think the questions are pretty easy, eh! I think for someone who likes the numbers, to get the honor plate here with comfort. May 1, 2015, more than a year ago. Board of Directors - the Council is 30 April -, the Board will bid this month, i.e. in April 2015, when it announced that it would bid in September 2014, the urbanization of 70 hectares for 13.5 million euros. At the end of 2015, and it's textual in the note, "interested entrepreneurs may opt for the first plots." Olé! We all know that the interested entrepreneurs, at the end of 2015, massively opted for the first plots. I don't teach you a picture of the lagoon again, because I think it's pretty illustrative. On September 19, 2015, assisted by the Galician Board, for 10 million euros, the works of the first phase of PLISAN, which will begin in October. Look, if those works started in October 2015, as they were 15 days ago, they redeploy the contract to the builder, because someone is cheating on someone, and I don't know why it gives me, as always, that the constables are the citizens, Counselor. So, if they actually started in October, as you said in a press release of yours, they have some problem controlling PLISAN's works. Pure and they just didn't start, especially they didn't start because a month later -- October 22, 2015 -- it was when the parade with all the high positions of the People's Party. Well, there were so many high positions, which even was the voice of the People's Party of the Vigo Town Hall, which I imagine as the chief manager, because Consorcio da Zona Franca de Vigo, Porto de Vigo and Junta de Galicia, I believe this lady is a concelerator of the People's Party in the Vigo Town Hall.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u223	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u224	That is, the propaganda and partisan use of this work, apart from being non-existent, is absolutely scandalous, and so yes, now they've moved a little, they've already said two months ago that the plots of PLISAN will be sold in January 2017. Can you make sure of that? Can you ensure that PLISAN's ETAP and EDAR will work early in 2017? Because you certainly know - Counsellor, you are a senior officer of the Territorial Policy Council - that without these facilities it is not possible to sell and install companies in PLSAN. So, quit advertising and propaganda, and end that work, because what you did, the little thing you did, made it a government presided over by a socialist. So far, you have photos and press notes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u225	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u226	Thank you, President. Mr. Losada, there's no problem, because we'll schedule a visit and I'll invite you to accompany us to see the works, to see you physically there, to see all the machinery and all the staff that's there working and developing the works. I'd also like not to continue throwing either Zapatero or the Bipartite any blame, but what I'd rather not have to be paying, eight years later, debts that you left, that's what I'd like more, of course! [[Murmurs.]] In any case, that's what I have to say, you were the ones who did the management by buying square meters the ladder, just unnecessarily acquired, without criteria, without control, promotion of corporate parks at prices that double those that existed in 2015 and serious problems in Xestur. That's what they left, and I remind them that it was a management, in my opinion, of course, terrible works; works done without paying, and corresponding part of the IGVS sold to the Xestur, which was in technical breach, with the rule of the resolved PLSAN, negotiations of the Board without consent and without knowledge of the other two promoters, the Harbour Authority and the Free Zone, who are involved in the project. And of course this government had to adapt to legal security, but what we had to do is fix the costumes you left at PLSAN. And right now there's the urbanization works of course that are going on. [[Murmurs.]] It's running this first phase of general systems, and jobs -- as I told you in my first intervention -- of roads, affected services, rainstorms, pumping wells, etc., are running according to schedule and will end next year, with the expected deadline. And we also have technical work, of course, the sewage treatment station and the positabilizing station. I know that these are important works, and that's why we have previous studies already hired and in writing. And that's why we agreed to bid this preliminary draft sewage and drinking water treatment station so that later the Galego da Vivenda Institute and Only the project contest will be bided. And all this would be bidden--of course yes--this same year. And also the urbanization of the LE at the end of 2017. Therefore, in 2017 I hope - and so we will be available - that companies can be fully installed in 2017. Therefore, in 2017 PLISAN will be fully operational so that companies can install themselves with legal guarantees, with urbanized soil, with good connections and good communications, with the drinking water treatment station and with the sewage-cleaning station, and at competitive prices, at competitive prices both for sale and surface rights; bonus prices for sale of 50 Euro square metre, a price that only exceeds the commercial parks promoted and urbanized by the two-party Government, because these parks promoted by you are those that duplicate and triple the parks made before the year 2009 and those that came after. I'll only set an example for you. In Lugo there was an agreement between the Junta and the Town Hall that the Town Hall would participate as a promoter in the Park of the Gandaras, since he owned a large part of the land in the area. For the two-party government broke this deal and decided to buy the Lugo Town Hall all the soil of its property. And the result? So raise the corporate soil price of the Gandaras Park in more than 14.1 million euros. That's what you did to substantially increase business soil prices. In any case, PLSAN will offer 100,000 square meters at a bonus price of 50 square meters, these first 100,000 square meters. Thanks to that effort of the three promoters - Together, Harbour Authority and Free Zone - the rest will be around the 80 euros square metre, away from the 154 euros square metre of the Veigaña polygon, in Mos, that you promoted; that's why it's so expensive. And therefore this government, working to facilitate the settlement of companies in our territory, new companies in industrial soil, so these new formulas blessing business soil. And thanks to this land selling policy with bonuses, we've been charged more than 545,000 square meters of industrial surface in the parks of Xestur and the IGVS, with bonuses that reached 16 million euros, and even today we've measured 10,000 square meters. I'm done now, I don't have any more time. What we want is to create wealth and employment, and that's why, ladies and gentlemen, at PLISAN we're putting all our efforts to make 2017 for it to be fully functioning, for economic dynamism, to generate jobs and generate wealth in the south of Pontevedra. For my part, nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u227	Thank you, Counselor. The next question is the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María del Carmen Gallego Calvar and two other Members, on the policy of fighting poverty that is being carried out by the Government of Greece. Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and two other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the policy of fighting poverty that is being carried out by the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u228	Mrs Gallego has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u229	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Social Policy Counsellor, I have with me Law 10/2013 of 27 November, of social inclusion of Galicia, which was published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 31 December 2013, a law which is the result of an agreement between the social agents and the Government of that time, from when the Law 13/2008 was approved, of social services of Galicia, because one of its additional provisions established the obligation for the Greek Government to review the regulations of what was then known as Risga, the income of social integration of Galicia, and which today is known as the income of social inclusion of Galicia. This law set out some issues, but it was basically a tool - the Government told us at that time - to fight poverty and social exclusion in Galicia. Well, this tool to fight poverty and social exclusion in Galicia that regulated the new income of inclusion with new concepts in which it relates to the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which had to do more with the socio-laboral inclusion of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, established in its normative development that the Council of Galicia had a period of six months - six months - since the publication of the law - 31 December 2013 - to develop this law. That is, in June 2014 the law to fight poverty and social exclusion in Galicia had to have a regulatory development and, therefore, there had to be a decree, two or three, that they had developed what was said in this law and that they had put the tools on the table so that both NGOs, local governments, self-government and other entities in the third sector of social action could work in our country in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. We're in May 2016 -- as we all know -- and still today that decree that had to be made in June 2013 is not born. We know that there is a draft that takes time and time - I speak for years - running through the offices of the Councillors of the Government of Galicia, than the third sector that has to work with it knows little or nothing, and of what one knows is that the Legal Counsel over and over again as the General Intervention of the United States of America, because they put sticks and more glues and more glues and never get that draft decree to see the light and therefore to develop this law. But it's more, this law established a commitment, which, in addition, was a result of transactions in the presentation before the adoption of this law, that every year the German Government had to report. In the second additional provision: "The Galician Council shall inform the Galician Parliament annually of the development of this law within the relevant committee". It was supposed to have happened in December 14th and December 15th. No such thing happened, there was no request from any member of the Government of Galicia to come to the corresponding commission - which in this case would be the 5th - of this Parliament so that someone from the Government would explain how the development of this law was and what is happening so that this law would not develop. And since this did not happen, because the Socialist Group is obliged to ask you to explain to us here, Counsellor, that is happening with this Act of inclusion, that when it was born it told us that it was the political tool that our country had to fight poverty and social exclusion and that is since 31 December 2013 without developing and without explaining its development or development in this Parliament. And that's the reason for this plea. And why are we concerned that you are not developing this law? Because the situation in our country is very serious. You know -- I have the data that your department gave me in the last commission 5a, which was held there few dates ago -- that we have on March 31 of this year about 10,000 people who perceive the income of social inclusion in Galicia and who, however, the National Institute of Statistics, through the publication of the survey of active population this first quarter of year, have just told us that in Galicia, for the first time since there are statistical data, we have a frightening data, which is that in 38,300 German homes no longer enter any income; 38,300 Greek homes in which no income enters and only 10,000 people who perceive the income of social inclusion in Galicia on March 31 of this year. Counselor, from 10,000 people to 38,000 homes all those people who have a subjective right to receive an inclusion income in our country don't perceive it. No one in the Government is wondering why this is going on? Does no one in the Government reflect on why it costs people so much that they have no income to access a benefit of Galician social inclusion income, which is -- by saying so in some mild way -- in quantitative terms, more scarce? Is it not that bureaucracy, the slowing down of concession at times of the Risk and the exclusions that are made of certain concepts that are not covered by the law, but that through an internal circular if they are excluded, are they favouring people who have the right to receive this income in our country, because they are in poverty or social exclusion, not able to reach it? Because I think your department, because it's not able to develop the law, at least if you should be asking what's going on so that of 38,300 homes in which no income enters there are only 10,000 people who perceive this income of social inclusion. And I'd like you to talk to us here today about why you think this situation is taking place. After the publication of this law -- with much publicity and propaganda from the former advisor, not from you -- we were told that we were going to start working with local authorities so that the councils too would be part of the Government's action in the fight against poverty and that through a line of aid directed to local entities, we would start hiring people in the councils who were perceived by the Risk to get them out of the income of inclusion and incorporate them into the labour market. Do you know what's going on with these recruits in the Town Councils? Do you know that, for example, the first orders published in the Official Journal of Galicia -- when you were not a counselor yet -- set the priority rather than those councils in which there was a greater percentage of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, did you not, establish the priority based on an available budget, which was -- I think the initial -- of 3 million euros, of those councils that first came to the request, of those who arrived first? I mean, it didn't matter to prioritize those municipalities where there was a higher percentage of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, no, no; the priority was those who first came with the request to the single gate or the corresponding window of the Galician board administration; those were those who were given the help. But far from that, that we have already criticized him here for active and passive, because it is an absolutely unfair, arbitrary and solely intended decision to favour the councils that were better informed in that case by the People's Party or the networks of the People's Party, away from that, what is going on this year - in 2016 - that we are in May - Counsellor, in mid-May - is that the councils have since the beginning of the year a notification of the Greek Government telling them that they have equal people to hire for at least seven months, people who are perceived at Risk and who will no longer perceive to have these contracts, and that today they do not know where these people are or where the economic resources are. With which of the seven months, because if we make the accounts until December 31, 2016, Counselor, neither do we have the accounts here. So it seems to me that it is very good that you, since you came to the council, have tried by all means to wash the image of the Government and make it forget about the Greeks and the Greeks that you have reduced by eight points the budget for social policy. It's not true that they invest more in social policy than in previous governments, but quite the opposite. You've been dedicated exclusively since you came to the Government trying to wash out that anti-social image of government that has Mr. Feijóo's government. And I think in some things you can do it, because there are pages and pages and pages in the media full of their news every week about the wonderful bond of Council, the check I don't know, the check I don't know how much. But the statistics say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u230	Finish, please, Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u231	...that we have today, according to EPA, the INE, the worst income-free household data in Galicia, the worst data in history, with seven years of consecutive People's Party government and with a law that was destined to fight poverty, which has been published for two and a half years, without developing, and never once came the Government of Wales...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u233	...to this Parliament to explain why. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u234	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. The Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u235	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gallego, I am not really here to wash the image of any government, but I am directing the new Council of Social Policy to promote a social tour of Galicia and to transfer an increase in the existing public resources to the people who need it most. You ask me four questions in your inquiry. What balance does the Government have with its policy of fighting poverty? As you know, the fight against poverty and exclusion is one of the main objectives of any government. But not only commitment, you have to go beyond words. I can tell you that matches for inclusion are increased since 2013. There is an increase of 21%, particularly in 2016, of expenditure for social inclusion and therefore the fight against poverty and the worst people are going through. And for the first time in the history of Autonomy there is a general direction that is dedicated exclusively to this, to inclusion, to contact and collaboration with the rest of administrations and the social sector, for which very close collaboration is essential. Look, the truth is, I don't really like fees, I don't really like numbers, but they exist, do I? And the AROPE rate, the European use indicator, which broadens the concept of risk, broadens the concept of risk of poverty and social exclusion, is decreasing its value for two consecutive years; it goes from 23.58 %, 12, to 22.11 % in 14, which is the last data we have published. Of course, I believe that any responsible government that cannot do is to boast of this descent, but the truth and truth is that we are at a time when, fortunately, we have indicators that show us that we are reducing this alarming increase that we had throughout the crisis and that we already had before the crisis without sufficient visualization. The framework for inclusion work is the Strategy for Social Inclusion of Galicia 20142020, adopted by the Board of Directors in December 14, in line with the recommendations of the European Union, which has planned 300 measures. This is not a strategy that we can design for ourselves. From the Social Policy Council we have all the social fabric to be able to draw up documents and guidelines for action that are more correct, precisely so that this has an impact on society. Therefore, the Strategy for Social Inclusion of Galicia 20142020 is the result of a process that, as you know, is very participatory, and where one of the fundamental measures of this process, of these 300 measures, is the direct grant of Galicia's social inclusion income, of Risk, and the inclusion aids. In fact, a few weeks ago, we adopted in the Council an order for the granting of grants to social-initiative entities, those on the ground who often attend emergency situations, which increase by 61%, the call we have just approved from 16 to 17 with regard to the 15th and 16th. And all these measures allow many people to have technical support or participate in various inclusion actions in 2015. Ask me also why today's inclusion strategy has not yet been developed. Look, I think the director told you precisely in the 5th Commission which was held at the end of April. There is this commitment, which is a commitment to a late 13th law, but we are working on different areas of very important legal changes at this time in the social area. I'm going to refer to two important things: one that has to do with the social concert and one that is very important, that has to do with the competitive distribution of social affairs based on a social agenda that we are developing with the sector and the municipalities, where we include very important budget increases, and that we think this is absolutely the priority: to put measures on the table, because it is true that there are also other normative texts in which we are working that also have a very important impact on the area of inclusion. The municipalities know that we are working precisely to push them and that, really, I have to say, they have preference over this other text, and the text of course is very important. I'm referring to the portfolio of inclusion, from which we expect its final approval in the coming weeks, which has concrete measures, concrete measures supported by concrete orders that will also come out in the coming weeks. And also another measure that we have taken to the Council very recently, the single social history, a work of years that will allow the work of Risga to be seriously disbursed, the work of social benefits. These are the reasons why there is a delay in the adoption of this decree, but -- I tell you -- it is part of the Government's agenda, and therefore we have the expectation that this year will be complemented. But - I already tell you - we have already developed an agreement in the framework of child schools; an agreement within the framework of city councils' day centres; we are finalizing a new social agenda of the municipalities, which goes from 128 million euros to 160 million euros, the first increase in staff, which will significantly strengthen the primary care received in the municipalities; we have the portfolio of inclusion and we have the implementation of the single social history. So -- I'm telling you -- it's within our priorities, but really, the texts have a processing that you, who was also part of a government, know perfectly well. He also asks me about Risga. Now, what I can tell you about Risk is that we have no record of the waiting list on Galician social integration income, that we are meeting the deadlines that are set, deadlines that, as you know, Members and Members know, are two months. It's true, too. We need to be able to strengthen municipal social services, because it's not about us blaming each other. I mean, then, how we don't get the documentation from the fair council, because we can't give the Risk; no. That's why we're going to increase, for the first time in many years, the agreed plan. And that's why there's going to be over 100 recruits in municipalities funded by the Board to strengthen social services. And that's why we're driving the single social story, which will allow it not to be necessary such a amount of paperwork to demand an income from these characteristics. Look, it might look a lot or it might seem a little bit, but it's happened since 2009, when we had 23.7 million euros for the Risk, 23.7, to 52.7 in this exercise. So we doubled what we meant for Risk. If you tell me, is it enough to meet all the needs? We still have to keep moving, but what I can tell you is that this government has doubled in recent years and that right now what we don't have is waiting list. What I really want is that, with the final approval of the portfolio, all administrations put themselves as an objective that these incomes to avoid poverty and exclusion are a theme of all, not just a theme of the Galician Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u236	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u237	And the fourth question--very briefly--how is the order of city councils working for the Rising? Well, look, it's about something that doesn't take the Social Policy Council, but it's about the Economic Council. I can tell you that it's in processing, very close to its completion this concession, and that, therefore, what we hope for is that it helps many people who are currently experiencing a Risk to have a different formulation, to have a contract of work with the Public Administration for a few months that can facilitate their subsequent insertion. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u238	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Gallego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u239	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon again. Well, Counsellor, at least you recognize, indeed, two years of delay in the development of the law that should be the main tool for combating poverty and social exclusion. Then he said some things here that I want to nuance. Tell me about the increase in the budget. Of course, there's a budgetary increase, there's been an increase in poverty, and therefore obviously every year they had to be -- you weren't then in the Government, but you could tell your colleagues about it -- making credit additions and even transversing other parts of the Social Policy Council itself from income of social inclusion, because the requests that came in were insurmountable. There's been eight months' delay, Counselor. And thanks to the fight we have made both the third sector entities and the opposition groups in this Parliament, which we have finally achieved that there was a unanimous agreement here, last summer, to eliminate the waiting lists, in the Council hired staff of reinforcement in the afternoons to avoid these very long waiting lists. We're talking about people who were waiting eight months for an income, who didn't have any sort of income, and who had to be pulling from the city councils' social emergency aid, because, obviously, if they didn't, they wouldn't have to take it to their mouth. You're telling me we're better now because the AROPE rate... look, I gave you the data from INE--it's brutal-- 38,300 homes in which no more revenue comes in, the worst data since there's a statistical series. You look at what's going on. Didn't you stop to think about how the new poverty is being behaved? Are you not able to relate the policies that they make with the increase in poverty? Can you not conclude that when unemployment benefits are reduced in full and in time, when from the Central Government everything that has to do with unemployment benefits and the Plan prepares is reduced, this will directly impact people who have long-term unemployment without benefit and therefore without any income? Have you ever stopped to think that when you delete rights related to health or education, access to education, scholarships, co-ordination of medicines, what is increasing is the risk of poverty or social exclusion of citizenship? Because in Galicia we have a country in which we all know what happens with demography, with population ageing, with the lowest pensions in the state, with special schemes with many taxpayers -- such as the special regime of the sea or the agrarian -- which have very low pensions. And all this has to do with, those political decisions that are taken, they have an impact on us having more people who have no income today. It's no use creating a Social Policy Council, creating a General Directorate of Social Inclusion, if, at the same time, with the other hand, the same government is doing is taking 8 points at the social expense of the Autonomous Community. It can be used to make headlines in the media, but for really, really, seriously and strictly fighting poverty, no. Their policies will be patched up, Counsellor, they will only be patches, because, in fact, those who have contributed more to the risk of poverty and social exclusion have been the measures that the Government has made; these were the measures that have contributed most to the increase in poverty. Look, you tell me about the inclusion strategy. It's exactly the same as the law: unapplied. His predecessor probably did because there was a time when a series of strategic planning needed to be justified in order to obtain the European funds from the new Community support framework and also to make a strategy for inclusion. And you tell me about the social concert. Home, Counselor! The social concert we brought the Socialist Group to this Parliament. The People's Group did not want to support us in that bill simply because it was an initiative of the Socialist Group and now it's back to the People's Group again what had come before the Socialist Group's hand. At least, indeed, we were able to talk about this. And you tell me that you are now working on the division of competence with the councils of social services and that the preference before the law is the portfolio and the single social history. Well, I'm glad someone's working in the mess that you've put together with the local administration reform--Mr. Rajoy, Mr. Rajoy--...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u240	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u241	...removing competences to municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants in the field of social services. But look--I insist--the main and most worrying of us is how the Greek Government explains today in our country 38,300 homes in which no income enters and only 10,000 people perceive the income of inclusion, because all that target population is not able to perceive that income, which would be fair, because subjective right have it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u242	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Close shift for Mr. Social Policy Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u243	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is there's a part that I don't understand too well, right? You're saying that Galician social budget decreases by 8%. The truth is, there's one reason why it's good to have a counselor in which social policies are concentrated: we don't have to be taking sides on one side, games on the other, to justify what a government is about social policy. I can tell you that this government has increased its budget by 4% this year. For the first time in several years, the budget of the Council for direct social policies is increased by 12%. So I don't match the numbers, I'll have to go over the political economy and the public farm. But really, what I can tell you is that 12% of the budget for the social policies of the Galician Union is going up, and that I have never, ever, raised the budget for social inclusion, i.e. the fight against poverty, by more than 20%, to reach 97 million euros. It's another data I can give you. [[Applause]] And the risk one, of course, will be a lot of people, but it's that in the year 9, 23 million euros were spent, with 12 billion euros from the Galician board budget, and now, with 8,000, 52 million euros are destined; that is to say, double the one destined for that income. And, indeed, I will take no credit for anyone. Of course they insisted very much--I wasn't practically in this House--but I think it was a common theme of the platforms against poverty, political groups, but also of the Government. And today I believe that what we have to be satisfied is that these waiting lists no longer exist, and that we can continue to move forward and that we are going to move forward according to an inclusion strategy, with concrete measures, Mrs Gallego. I have just reported the order of social initiative entities, which increases by 61 %, and the entities know it. So what we're going to do is that budget increase returns it to those entities that are closest to those who are in a situation of social exclusion or at risk of social exclusion. And the municipalities will see double the order of social inclusion with respect to what was in the previous year. which, in addition, with the municipalities and entities, we have closed a social agenda which includes a whole range of measures involving the Galician Union and involving other administrations, measures relating to energy poverty, measures relating to refugees, measures relating to direct inclusion aid, measures relating to increasing the staff employed in social inclusion in the municipalities, measures relating to the fight against child poverty. I have just signed seven conventions with six mayors and a mayor of the seven cities of Galicia precisely for the fight against child poverty. We're working in an order that avoids the difficulty of accessing medicines from people who need it most. So what I'm trying to transmit to you is that we not only have the Risga up to date, but we have a whole package of measures that contribute to the fight against poverty and the fight against economic inequality, and that in this we are going to keep working with all the intensity, because our responsibility of course is that in Galicia that data that, depending on what statistics we look at, they give us in one way or give us another, but the truth is that there are people who are going through it very badly, and what we have to do is work intensively for every time these people are less. And I'm also going to tell you something else: it's true that the crisis has greatly increased the number of people in poverty situations and social exclusion, but it has increased their visibility much more, and increased the existing demagogy in the field of inequality and the fight against poverty. That, I think, is also something that must lead us to be able to agree on the essential. We are doing so, indeed, with the entire network of entities working to eradicate poverty, we are doing so with the municipalities and I hope that we can give good news in this Parliament very soon. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u244	Thank you, Counselor. We turn to point 7, questions to the Government, with the first, of the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, about the staff that will look after the people of the LGTBI collective in women's information centres. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Teresaca Paz Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the staff who will attend the LGTBI collective in women's information centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u245	To formulate the question you have the word to sign Adam V callerín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u246	Good afternoon. Mr. Vice-President. Look, do you know how hard it is to make a law, specifically because this law of which I have here a copy, Law 2/2014, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals of Galicia? For the work that has led to the people who brought this text here by the Socialist Party, the Members and Members of this House that we work in this law, but which obviously goes to our responsibility. We can say that cost because it's almost zero cost. Since I had no budgetary memory, we don't know how much it costs to develop a law, but that's really important, not only what we put on paper, that's actually very important and one step forward with the limitations that this law had, but the important thing is to develop it, take it into practice, and it's going on for two years. So we find that there is a decree to modify information centres to women where it is collected that will develop article 8 of this law, article 8 of this law that says exactly that information and support will be given to LGTBI people. And our question is very simple, and as we did it to the Secretary General of Equality and he didn't answer us, we expect you to answer us today. What staff and what budget will be included in women's information centres special attention to the development of this law, which goes from giving information to supporting them, for example, if you see homophobic aggression or any other circumstance that has to do with the development of this law or the carrying out of activities for the development of this law? As you will understand, it is to double or triple the work of the staff working in women's information centres, which up until now has essentially developed actions directed because of equality, the inclusion of women's work, and essentially prevention and accompaniment in cases of gender violence, and now they are confronted with this reality, which has to influence their daily work, without increasing staff, without increasing budgets, the care and development of a new law. As you will understand, it's an important question. I'll then leave the subject of why information centres for women, which is also a subject that we have to debate for the child. But in the face of a new decree that is being drafted, we want to know how the Government of Greece contemplates paying attention to LGTBI people in the information centres without providing them with more personnel, more budget, in addition to their own activities. That's why, Vice-President, the question is very clear: which staff will attend the LGTBI people according to the new decree of women's information centres being draft? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. The Vice President of the Board has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u248	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Adam, the question is very clear and I thank you, because I have a habit--I think it's what to do--to read well the explanatory statement of the question to know what you're asking. And I have to say that the explanatory statement has nothing to do with what you ask after. I appreciate that the question is clear. And to tell you that I don't know what it takes to do a law, I suppose a lot, and I'm sure this was actually an initiative of the Socialist Group and it's done with the best will. I suppose it will cost a lot, because in the time that you were responsible for all these issues in the Bipartisan Government or a single law, of course, but no regulations, no protocols, no campaigns related to this LGTBI collective, with which I suppose it will be very difficult to make the law and it will also be very difficult to attend them; if not, I would have done something in four years, and I have to tell you that you haven't done anything at all. No, I'm saying that because it seems like you have to come and do it all at once. And in this case, yes, we have to do a lot of things and we have to make them quick, but of course this wasn't one of their priorities when I had more resources and now it has to be and it's going to be a priority of this government, Mrs. Adam. We agree, at least, that this collective should be attended. All right. Well, then, if we agree, let's take care of it now. Before he didn't listen and now he's still developing this law, and this law exactly -- you'd refer to article 8 -- which says, "We'll support an information, care and counseling service to lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals, intersexuals and their close families and people, in collaboration with local governments." I mean, this is everyone's business, it's not a single administration, it's a whole society thing, but of course in the responsibility that we have, the Administration will be obliged to all administrations. The truth is that not one single government, and therefore none of the municipal governments that run the BNG, neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party - but you are from the BNG and are asking me the question--, not one single government led by the BNG has set in motion absolutely no service with which he could have collaborated to serve this collective. So it had to be the Council of Galicia that had taken care of. It's an obligation you're in law, but you're going to say it's not just an obligation on the Galician Union, it's an obligation on all administrations, and no municipal government on its own, no one on its own, it's true that the Town Hall of the Crown before the law came into force had a service that worked two and a half hours a week, therefore totally insufficient. The Galician Union has inspired attention to this collective, and there were several options, there were several possibilities, and we believe that the most appropriate way to ensure the attention of all the people included in this collective was to do so through the CIMs, which were already established, which serve 167 municipalities and reach many municipalities where it would be impossible if we failed to pay attention to the people of this collective. You know, as I know you, the report by the People's Valuer, which says that precisely in rural areas is where there is greater discrimination, in the context that is given there, and therefore in rural areas it is also where the CIMs operate, and we found it appropriate to do it through this network. And what you can't do is you can't do anything, what you can't say is you have to do through other mechanisms and discard one that we've established, and logically what we have to do is train the CIM staff, give them the proper preparation and make sure that the service is rendered in collaboration with the municipalities. I remind you that the CIMs are a municipal service that collaborates with Junta and not on the other hand, in collaboration with the municipalities to attend this collective, which until now, and from the time of the Bipartite years, has not received any attention from any administration, and certainly not from the board of Galicia, even though you are responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u249	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Adam has the floor for the replica shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u250	Thank you very much, Vice President. Look, a few days ago, the commemoration of Sigmund Freud's birth was celebrated, I'm absolutely convinced that he was born now and that he had developed his work would devote a special part of the psychoanalysis to analyzing the Galician People's Party and the problem he has with the Bipartite. No, no, I'd give it to a theory, but I don't know if it's in the lacanian phase of the mirror and the child. I don't know which one, because I haven't really read psychoanalysis for a long time, but you have a problem with sofas, and you have to sit down and relax, because I want to remind you that 18 equal offices have been opened, that attention to LGTBI people were being paid in the centers I love you. And what have you guys done? Close the equality offices, close them immediately. [[Applause]] There was not a single CISG, not a single CISG, Mr. Vice-President, while the Bipartite was not a single CISG and the equality offices were opened, it's good that we here would have another model, which was not his model, but there was no less euro and the offices were opened. I apologize, I apologize, but here we're not asking about the Bipartite and whether or not the LGBTI people were treated or not, but how they're going to take care of now. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, of course, that's the problem. With what personal, with the staff of the CIS? I do tell you one thing, it's true that I assume I have a name problem, but paying attention to it in women's information centers is absolutely damaging. I propose you speak to the Industry advisor, who has names for everything. So, for example, Equality 5.0, it happens to me as equality centers. [[Laughter]] No, no, I'm not kidding, I'm serious. They remove that from women's information centres, it's another time, it's from the 1980s, it's from the 1990s, and it's all moving. I asked him a polite question and you came back to the past. Looking at the future, I just ask you, what personal will LGTBI people be cared for in the centers?, which I hope you pick up this proposal, that they change their names, that they call themselves equalized centers would be a start, or whatever you want, but that they stop calling them Women's Information Center if they also take care of LGTBI people. It just doesn't make any sense, it's a contradiction. Please, if we're going to talk about the Bipartite, let's talk about the issues that have been raised. Now I'm not asking you, not even a criticism, but it was a very specific question: in the face of the concern of this collective...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u251	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u252	Mr. Vice-President, how will this attention be given if staff and budgets are not increased? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u253	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. The Vice-President of the Board has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u254	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Indeed, you have asked an polite question, and I thank you, because that sometimes doesn't happen, but not for you, eh!, that always does them politely, and I will answer you politely as well, as it is my obligation, and without anger, as if you're angry at reminding you of something that--for I forgive you, but I have to say--is that it doesn't seem normal for me to say that we are leaving time without attending this collective and that I have to remind you that you were four years old--it's so, Mrs. Adam--with much more resources and you haven't listened to them, because what you're telling me is that I was taking care of them through the centers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u255	Mrs. Adam, please, your shift is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u256	Thank you very much, Madam President. If the answer to me is that I attended them through the centers I love you, because...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u257	Mrs. Peace, please be quiet. [[Mrs. Paz speaks words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Peace, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u258	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Adam, if you let me follow, I'll answer the question. If you think it's strategy, I'm telling you to do it in the future, you're being cared for through the Love Centers. The centers I love you were in the places where they were, they were in the cities and somewhere else--it's the problem I told you, and precisely I told you the report of the People's Valedor, and there's no need for anyone to say it, it's clear--and the attention through the centers I love you is to leave unattended all the LGTBI people who were in places where there were no Love Centers, which are the vast majority. We do what we do, precisely, if what is worth is a network that is established--and you were worth it, the network of the centers Love you, what happens is that it was much smaller and it didn't even reach a fourth of the territory--is to take advantage of the network that is established, specializes it, give it training. Don't tell me there's less resources, because CIMs have 1 million more, and therefore I insist that this is something that needs to be done in collaboration with the administrations. They are not a resource of the autonomous community, they are a municipal resource that the Union complements; therefore, this will have to be done among all. What happens is that with regard to the attention of the LGTBI collective, the councils have decided--for whatever reason they were, or because they still didn't, and they had to do so--that, in fact, we had to develop article 8 of the law of the year 2014, and that's what we're doing. You know that only 19 of the nearly 70 centers that exist have manifested themselves against not paying attention to this collective, or saying that there should be more resources, than if they couldn't. I mean, not a fourth part, Mrs. Adam, and I suppose the professionals who work in the rest--that's 75% that agree, because it sees it effective to pay attention to the LGTBI collective through the CIM--I suppose they'll be as respectable as that fourth part that demands more resources. We will continue to increase the resources of the CIM, we will continue to specialize the staff to attend the LGTBI collective, we have already done so in the field of health, in the field of education we are signing agreements with the associations, so I don't think there is any doubt about our will and willingness. I'd like, too, to be accompanied by the Town Councils. Since you can speak more directly, you might want to pay more attention to us in the Town Councils leading the BNG, see if they at least start by setting an example there and involve themselves more with the Galician Union in the attention of a group that needs it, without any doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u259	Thank you, Vice President. Quiet, please. Question by Mr. Miguel Ángelado Filgueira, from G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece of the recent trip of Mr. President of the Council of Galicia to Argentina and Uruguay
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u260	To put the question, by the People's Group, Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u261	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President. Between 21 and 26 April it is known that the President of the Council of Galicia has made an institutional visit to Argentina and Uruguay, where he has held several meetings with the Welsh emigrants living in those countries, and in which an official reception is also included by the President of the Republic of Argentina and the President of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay, among other personalities. It must also be said that, thanks to the Law of transparency and good governance, all institutional travel is now published in the Government of Galicia's institutional agenda, and also semi-annually we realize the Galician Parliament, with which maximum transparency is impossible. But, in any case, we want to note that this trip has also been marked by economic content and cultural content. Economics, given the meetings held with German and Argentine entrepreneurs, and also in the Spanish Chamber of Commerce in Uruguay. And also for its cultural content, with the presence of the President of the Board at the forty-second International Fair of the Book of Bos Aires, to which he also attended - it must be said - the mayor of Santiago de Compostela, who was the guest town of honor, and also 27 Greek writers representing the vanguard of literature and poetry in Greek, along with other personalities such as the Councillor for Culture and Education, the President of the Galician Culture Council and the President of the Royal Galaga Academy. We could say that this was, therefore, an authentic Greek cultural mission. But, in any case, what we want to know is what valuation makes the Government of this recent trip of the President of Galicia to Argentina and Uruguay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u262	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Response by the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Yes, Mr Moreira, it has indeed been a recent trip by the President of Galicia to two countries with a very important presence of the Galician community and with very important links with our autonomous community. So it had a double side, the institutional and the more political, and also, at least as important as the political relationship, which is the contact with the community. Referring to the institutional part, starting with the first part of the trip to Argentina, you will see that one of the reasons was the celebration of the Book Fair in Bos Aires, one of the most important in the world, this year dedicated to Santiago. For four years now, it has been dedicated to the most important cities in the world. Cities like Amsterdam, like Sao Paulo, like Mexico, and this year he played Santiago, and therefore deserved a proper response and a correspondence with the institutional presence at the highest level by Galicia. So was the president of the Galician Union, who was also mayor of Santiago, there were 27 authors and writers of Greek literature on this fair, who had a lot of public presence, about one million visitors, 150 activities on the stand that mounted the Council of Culture - and of all this told the Councillor of Culture in this Chamber - and many visitors as well. So, a lot of presence, and we think that at the level of what I was supposed to have dedicated this book fair this year to Santiago de Compostela. Then, in the other institutional part, you know that you have met with the highest institutions, with the President of the Argentine nation, starting with President Mauricio Macri himself, recently elected, who has to clear that he has to open Argentina, in this new economic cycle to Europe, much more than he was up to now, and the normal channel of entries - if he considers it, and I think that for us it is an advantage that we should never forget - from Argentina in Europe must be through Spain, and especially through Galicia, by the bonds and presence that continue to have the Galicians in Argentina. Therefore, this channel was opened with the new President of Argentina - we believe it has many possibilities - and at the same time the President of the Union took advantage to meet with the Vice-Chief of the Government - was not the holder at that time - of the autonomous city of Bos Aires and the Ombudsman of the Bos Aires People's Office. Finally, the most important institutions, which can give greater institutional relevance to this journey, and hence more opportunities, from a certain point of view, for our autonomous community. And finally, the president of the board was at an event - in which I had the opportunity to be already on previous occasions - in the "Bos Aires Celebra Galicia", where thousands and thousands of Greeks are quoted, coming from the entire Argentine nation and even from the neighbouring countries, where a reminder is made to our roots, our identity, our culture, which also devotes the city of Bos Aires to Galicia, and which supposes there, in the center of this city, and in the center of South America, a reminder every year that we follow there, that we continue to have a lot of presence and that our values also deserve to be preserved not only here, but also on the other side of the sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u264	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u265	Thank you, Vice President. We therefore welcome the success of this journey, not only in the institutional field, but also in the economic and cultural interests of Galicia, and especially in facilitating and maintaining contact with the Greek community, both in Argentina and Uruguay, and in keeping alive that deep bond that exists with the Greeks living in these countries. Good news is also that this journey, as you say, had served as an external promotion platform for 27 contemporary authors and authors of our land, and also representatives of editorials and different institutions. We also have to congratulate you, Mr Vice-President, on this award given to the Galician stand at the Bos Aires Book Fair. It is clear that the Galician brand remains a sign and a symbol of excellence throughout the world. Congratulations, therefore. The visit to the President of the Argentine Republic, we believe, from the People's Parliamentary Group, that undoubtedly opens up new possibilities for the Greek companies in Argentina. We believe that this is the way, and we hope that these possibilities will eventually crystallize in favour of business opportunities, because that will be good for all of Galicia. We are sure that the participation of the president of the Union, together with the Galician community in Bos Aires in the plethora of cultural celebrations "Bos Aires Celebra Galicia", we are sure that the city of Bos Aires with all this deeply comforted the Welsh residents in this wonderful city. Finally, Mr Vice-President, we would also like to know the assessment of the journey and the objectives of the institutional visit to Uruguay, a country also with strong links to Galicia, not without first congratulating its Government on transparency, and by explaining here in the Galician Parliament all the details of these travels and its strategic interest in Galicia. Without a doubt, the management and contacts made by our president in recent years have produced a lot of fruit, such as in the case of shipping contracts in Mexico with the company Pemex, which then crystallized into contracts. We are also convinced that in this case this journey to Uruguay and Argentina will also bring good news for the future of Galicia, for the Greek economic fabric and for the well-being of the Greeks. Galicia has a great president, he has a great government that works and cares about all the Greeks, those who live in Galicia and out of Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u266	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we hope it will, Mr. Moreira. The second part of the journey was developed in Uruguay, where he has been an ambassador for almost four years now, a perfect acquaintance of Galician reality, a former head of the Culture Council in this autonomous community, and therefore greatly facilitates contact not only with Uruguayans, but with the most important community in Uruguay. The president came there and had a first meeting with the Galician youth in Uruguay. It must be remembered that in this country 70 percent of the people who have been born in Uruguay, and therefore it is very important to have this contact with younger people, do not forget the people who have been there for a long time, but already the people who have been born in Uruguay, but who still feel also in Uruguay, and therefore those bonds must be strengthened. That's why that was the first... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u268	Quiet. Mr. Fajardo. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Fajardo, I'm not going to throw it away now, because you have to hold a little. Yes, but silence, please. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u269	I'm sorry that keeping these ties doesn't look good on Mr. Fajardo, he'll know why. [[Murmurs.]] Then the president of the Union had a meeting with the Federation of Spanish Institutions in Uruguay, too, they are very important -- most Greeks -- and they exert a great influence there. Therefore, that contact was obliged. The president of the Galician Union also met with the Spanish Chamber of Commerce in Uruguay to demonstrate Galicia's willingness to continue with economic exchanges, also to make an entry channel for Uruguayan companies and the entire area of America in Europe and Spain through Galicia, and therefore continue to say that we are a land of opportunity for all those who maintain special ties with us. And on the institutional side - also related to the economic side - he met, as he had done in Argentina, with the highest representative of Uruguay, with President Tabaret, recently elected, where we also focus on the need to maintain those privileged ties that we have with the Uruguayan nation. Besides, also in the special development that Uruguay is doing in the matter of cutting off the excessive energy dependence on oil that they have, very much bet on the marine wind energy, we are now building lots of... we're sea wind power pointers--not like Mr. Fajardo this--...I'm sorry but these are opportunities we have to take advantage of. [[Murmurs.]] And, therefore, we have made these capacities available to Uruguay. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Right now the Uruguayan nation is projecting an investment plan of $12,500 million and we have to take advantage of that opportunity. I mean, a lot of Galician companies can be run by these infrastructure projects, so that trip also served as a manifesto and to open doors for the Galician companies. Finally, I believe that these trips, apart from strengthening the bond with the Galician community, which remains very important there, still have a lot of influence, serve to offer us as an gateway to all the opportunities that are looking for both Argentina and Uruguay and all the countries that have special links...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u270	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u271	...with hispanity and Galicia. And so it's true that these results are seen a little bit not in the short run as much as in the middle, but I'm sure you have to sow to pick up opportunities. And the Greek and Galician entrepreneurs in general...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u273	...thank you for maintaining these bonds, promoting them and taking advantage of the opportunities that others cannot have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u274	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Maria Consuelo Martínez García and Mónica Fernández Rodríguez, from G.P. Jointly, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece regarding the demand to the Central Government for the inclusion of the peripheral situation, the dispersion and the ageing population of Galicia as criteria for the distribution of funds in respect of the participation of the municipalities in the state incomes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u275	Question by Mrs. Maria Consuelo Martín z García and Mrs. Monica Fernández Rodríguez. You have the word Mrs. Consuelo Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u276	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The main route of financing of the municipalities is the approach they receive for participation in the state's incomes, but the Greek municipalities are penalized by a financing system that obviously factors such as dispersion and population ageing, which affect the increase in the provision of services. From the deliveries to the Fairy account by participation in the state incomes, the seven cities of Wales will receive together in 2016 a lower advance than Zaragoza, Seville or Valencia separately. In absolute figures, deliveries to the Fairy account to the Greek municipalities amount to 571.25 million, with a cut of 11.6 million on the advance of last year. The distribution criteria favour municipalities of more than 500,000 inhabitants. The seven cities of Wales together amount to 989,926 inhabitants and will enter 248,4 million. Zaragoza, with 325,000 inhabitants less than the seven cities of Galicia together, will receive 259.1 million, more than 10 million; Seville will enter this year a delivery of 299.56 million, 51 more than Galicia, although it has 300,000 inhabitants; Valencia will receive 333.85, about 85 million more than Galicia, while it has 221 inhabitants less than the seven cities of Galicia. The differences are in favour of cities that exceed the million inhabitants; that is, it's a system that favors those most developed cities. The aggravating is clearer if the average amount per inhabitant is met. Thus, Zaragoza will receive for each inhabitant 389 euros; Málaga, 404; Sevilla, 431; Valencia, 434; Madrid, 489, or Barcelona, which reaches 664 euros per inhabitant. While the Galician cities, which are the most perceived cities, The Coruña will perceive 270; Ourense, 263; Vigo, 254; Santiago, 248; Ferrol, 227; Lugo, 228; and Pontevedra, 218 euros per inhabitant. I mean, the worse the economic situation in the city of Galicia is, the less money it gets. Overall, Galicia, with 6,2 % of the population, enters an equivalent of 5 % in the distribution of income. In this way, the demographic crisis, the population dispersal, the aging and the peripheral situation of Galicia is penalized in favour of large cities. But the aggravation also takes place within Galicia, since the less populated municipalities receive less per capita than the big cities. That is why I ask you: will the Union require the Government of the State to change the distribution criteria that guarantee a more equitable distribution, taking into account the peripheral situation and the dispersion and the ageing population of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u277	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u278	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As for the revision of the local financing system, this Government has already been pronounced on numerous occasions before this Parliament; in recent months on several occasions precisely in different initiatives. Without going further, last week in Commission 3a, a GNP was approved and I will read as follows: "The Parliament urges the Galician Union to demand from the Central Government the inclusion of ageing and population dispersal within the criteria that determine the allocation of funds for the participation of the Greek municipalities in the state incomes, to end the serious gap between the income of the Greek municipalities in respect of the percentage of the population in the Spanish state." There's no more reading, Your Honor. Therefore, do not doubt that the Council of Galicia will comply - as it cannot be otherwise - with these parliamentary mandates. And in order to finish this first intervention, I am also pleased to see that since the Joint Group they have been internalizing right now what it means for the ageing and the dispersion of the population about the real cost we have to provide the services, not only in the competence of the municipalities, but in the field of autonomic competition. Welcome! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u279	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u280	I just need a few seconds to laugh at the answer. It is that, first of all, the one of the approved GNP, which will accomplish, as to so many other things to which the Greek Government has not complied. I can tell you how many non-legislative proposals have been adopted in this Parliament and are waiting for the Government to start something about them. But in addition, in particular, you have been ruling seven years of tremendous crisis and have allowed and agreed that the Government of the State had followed with this division that severely damaged Galicia, while you did nothing. It's more: we meet the deficit, right? Here it all fell upon the people, the cuts; so there's the Welsh health, so there's the Greek education, so there's the Greek social services, so there's our country in infrastructure. Because the big problem is that you're simply obedient to Madrid; here they pass a PNL but then they don't do anything, or they come to Madrid and vote against it. We've met them. So we're not worth those excuses, we want to see a Galician board campaign that claims to Galicia the money that corresponds to these funds, and not that he comes here to do propaganda and say yes but then do nothing. We are the country that has the municipalities that charge less; of 400 euros per inhabitant who charge most cities with a certain entity, in Galicia we are half, over 200 euros. A country that is bankrupt, a country that has a terrible poverty, a country with the lowest wages, a country where today we were told that in PLSAN by 2017 there will be companies but no companies are created. Really, you're the only managers of the Government of Madrid, they haven't started to rule this country yet. I ask you, please, to start ruling this country, to exercise government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u281	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u282	...and they don't just act as Madrid's agents. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u283	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Close round, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u284	Thank you again, Mr. President. Three things. The first, in fact, already contemplated by you and which I have magnificently stated in your first intervention: the local financing model at this time at the state level does not include the parameters of dispersal and ageing in which is the distribution of the participation for the municipalities in the state incomes. This model was approved - as you well know - in 2004 and seriously affects the provision of services throughout the Italian municipality. But to serve as an example, our Local Cooperation Fund if it collects what depends on the Board, also linked to our income, it does perfectly collects both criteria at the moment. For example, dispersion is rated at 20 % and population aging at 10 %. So serve as an example of what the position of the Union is and the coherence that we try to maintain. Secondly, you must also know that the National Local Administration Commission, which is the body that is born of the Law of Local Regime bases and where it is put in common between the General Administration of the State and Spanish municipalism through its representative, in particular, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, that is where all the topics related to local funding, grants, income participation, etc. are shared. And it's through our Fegamp how we can influence the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces on that commission. So these are two orders that need to be highlighted enough to effectively look at what the participation of Joine is. The Union, nor any autonomous Community, directly participates in the field of competence which belongs to the administration of state and municipalism as such. So we've created ourselves the things of local autonomy, and for that, all the support of the Union. What you must also know is that already in April the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provinces itself constituted a commission to precisely analyse and make proposals through the Spanish Federation of Municipalities and Provinces in that national commission I referred to earlier, so that these differential factors which affect very much what is the provision of municipal services. And as I also told you when I finished my first intervention, I don't doubt, either you or anyone at any time, that we from June will always support the German municipality, but at the same time we will always respect its competence framework and its autonomy. Please be clear enough. And by the way, this government with regard to NLP has always tried to give them an answer like the other issues that are here. We can differ in many things but never in what is in the proposed nature of this Parliament's initiative but always through the Galician Union. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u285	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the decision of the Galician Board in connection with the completion of the project of the Galician Natural Park Interpretation Centre in Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u286	Question by Mrs Noela Blanco Rodríguez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u287	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. The Galician Natural Park Interpretation Center project, located in Ourense, begins its career in 2007. It's done by the Environment Council, along with the Bipartisan Government Industry Council. The objective of this interpretation center was clear, it was to value the natural resources, the natural values of our autonomous community. Months later, in 2008, the land assignment process also begins, which was by the Council of Ourense, then ruled by the socialists; a project that ends in August 2008. A partnership agreement between the Ministry of the Environment and the Environment Council was signed in 2009. A collaborative project for which Feder's operating program aid is also requested from 2007 to 2013, a grant of more than 7 million euros. This is therefore a draft consensus, in line with the local administration, the autonomous and state administration, and it can be said that the Community funds received at European level too. A consensus that breaks the People's Party in November 2011 with the paralysis of these works. For those who don't know them, this was the project and this is the current state where it was to be the Galician Natural Park Interpretation Center, located in Ourense, a cement skeleton, a construction material dump. [[Murmurs.]] Until now, until the end of the Feder operating program, until we've finally lost the grant on December 31, 2015, we haven't got any kind of explanation why this paralysis. Now they tell us that it is in a flood zone and that it is necessary to build a containment wall in the perimeter of that building. Well, the immobility and the contempt that Mr. Feijó's Government has had for this project leads to this project being threatened; to the fact that there is a wasted budget, since the infrastructure that is built amounts to about 2.2 million euros, that we are going to have to pay off all the Greeks and the Greeks; to the loss of subsidy and possible responsibilities in relation to the assignment of land. Well, given this, and that the Galician Council continues to fail to clarify what it is going to do about it, today, Counsellor, the question is very clear and I hope the answer will be as well. Do you definitely abandon the Galician board project of the Natural Park Interpretation Center located in Ourense? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u288	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u289	Thank you very much, President. Nothing further, Mrs. Blanco, from abandoning a project that is, indeed, important to the Government of the Council of Galicia, not only to the Council of Ourense. But it is true that further to coincide with you that, indeed, this project has had some complexity and certain pitfalls over the past few years, yes, I would also like to make some clarifications in your assertions, even in writing, and now also as to what was the processing and the reasons for the pitfalls that have occurred over the years, since you were talking about that the agreement was signed in 2009, and it wasn't so, Your Honor. More than anything because that agreement was signed by Minister Elena Espinosa and even counsellor Agustín Hernández, who in 2009, beginning in April 2009, was no longer; i.e.... That is, the agreement actually dates back to 2008, which was when the environmental adviser Pachi Vázquez and the minister at that, Elena Espinosa. Nor was it it that it took a year to start the works, but that there were indeed two-year traps, in fact until 2010 they were not able to start those works. In other words, I insist and agree with you that there were different pitfalls, it was the Socialist Government that in 2010 ordered Tragsa to start the works. In fact, in charge of the ministry, but it is also true that the ministry paralyzes, and not the Government of Mr Feijóo, those works, specifically the Directorate-General of Nature; the Directorate-General of the Natural Environment and Forest Policy was the one who gave the order of paralysis. By the way, in 2009, even in 2010, there were attempts to sign a new agreement, to talk about an amendment to the agreement, because as you know, the convention signed in 2008, expired in December 2011 and it was therefore necessary to monitor it. In fact, as early as 2012, a new agreement between the ministry and the Government of Galicia was attempted again, which was ratified at the Council of the Union by us, but which was not brought forward by the Central Government. So I think that's a clear proof that since the Government of Galician Union there has been no intention of paralyzing this investment. The reality is that today is not covered by any agreement; today this infrastructure does not contemplate any agreement, because it was the original of the year 2008 and is no longer in force, expired in 2011 and no other agreement has been signed. So, since the Galician Union, what we have clear is that if there were then the spirit and commitment of the State Government to support this investment, of course we have to demand that the State Government back support that investment once again. Beyond that, indeed, things have to do them well and I am convinced that you too will want us to do them well, and we must bear in mind that throughout this time this decree of floods has entered into force which declares that zone, which obliges both the Government of the State and the Government of the United States to make a new modification of the project. I'll try to finish and explain the next part of my speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u290	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u291	Yes. Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, aside from differences in deadlines and dates, you remain unclear when they're going to do so and whether they're going to do it. If it is a question, precisely, for a legislative amendment, what year was that legislative amendment made? In 2013, Madam Counsellor, in 2013. We're in 2016, we lost an investment of European funds because of their lack of commitment; because of their lack of commitment to a project, and you're still playing with yourself, but not. Reminds me of this a little while back when I was little and I was asking for something and they were telling me, well, we'll see. We'll see you saying no, what's the matter is that you didn't dare tell me directly. Look, in 2007, Mr. Enrique Novoa, who even congratulated the Council of Galicia--and you know it, Mr. Novoa--for this project. January 2015, the project has to be reformulated. May 2015, the government program of the current mayor of Ourense, point 161: The Natural Park Interpretation Center will be done. 10 November 2015, a plenary in this House, an initiative by the Socialist Group to which the party that supports the government voted against the resumption of the works, against running 100 % of these European funds and against rehabilitating a mine border which is, Counsellor, key to the thermalism of our city. A city, Counsellor, which at the thermal level is one of the most important in all of Europe, that receives thousands of tourists and they and all citizens are seeing how you despise it. His words have no value at all, they are too many promises for many years. Yes, no, no, no, no. With which, since we can't keep the words, we stick to the facts, Counselor. And the facts are that today when the oransansans and the orensans walk along the banks of Mine, this is what you see, Counselor. The fact is that the thousands of tourists who visit our thermal wealth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u292	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u293	...what you see is this, Counselor. And you still don't make it clear when it's going to be done and if you go to Galicia's board to put the necessary funds -- it's going to repeat it -- to make that containment wall, which according to the confederation report...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u295	...it's necessary. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u297	Your Honor, go forward that nothing further than the intention of this Government, of course no contempt and no immobilization with the oransansans and the orensas. Obviously, what we want to do is do things right, we're not going to give up the center, but if we're going to give up wasting the public money of all the Greeks and the Greeks. What we can't do is carry forward a project like what we have when we're in a flood zone. [[Murmurs.]] I don't know if you, if you were in my place, would pull forward. Perhaps, yes, the philosophy of the Socialist Party had been to carry forward a project, by the way, individually, that is, paying with all the money of the Greeks and the Greeks, regardless of whether the entire first floor of that center was flooded the next day. And you know, besides, that first plant, in addition to the decree and the regulations, is going to be disabled, not because you want it from the Galician Union, but because it says the decree that it is forbidden in areas that are considered to be inundable. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finally, Your Honor, the Government of Galicia wants to move forward, but what it wants to demand from the Government of the State is the same financial participation in a project, by certain eight and a half million euros, which had committed the State to Galicia, which is more than 85%; not that it financed it to the Government of Galicia, but to once again seek the commitment of the Government of the State to the financing of that project. And second, do things right. I insist, even if you were in my place, I'd pull forward, but what you can't afford is to invest eight and a half million euros from all the Greeks and the Greeks in a center that's going to be flooded the next day. So we have to set up the drafting of the new project. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] For the part of the Government of the Union that I commit to is: we do not give up that center, we obviously have to go forward, but if we refuse to waste the public money of the Greeks. We do not give up what the State has promised, but we do, of course, give up funding solely and exclusively from the Government of Galicia. And we don't give up doing things right, Your Honor. We have to do things strictly. I hope this will be clear enough for you to guarantee the oransansans and orensas that this center is not of Ourense, it is of all the Greeks and all the Greeks; it is the heritage of the exhibition of one of the most important heritages that we have, that are our natural parks, and that therefore we will continue to bet not only for the natural parks, but also for the processing of this center. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u298	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Jesús Antonio Goldar Güimil and seven other Members of the G.P. Galician people, on the plans of the Galician Union for the implementation of the Plan for the Strengthening of Signs of Self-Governmental Roads announced by the Infrastructure and Living Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u299	Mr. Goldar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u300	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Infrastructure and Living Counsellor, very late for everyone. Last March, the department you run publicly announced the launch of a plan to strengthen autonomic ownership road firms, which will have an investment of twenty-three million and a half euros and which will be developed by the Galaga Infrastructure Agency. This important action is part of the 20162020 Road Safety Plan, driven by the Government of Galicia, taking into account the characteristics of the Galician road network, which is one of the largest in Spain, with more than 18,000 kilometers, and that the routine is affected, directly, by a climate often adverse, which requires more intense attention from the track owner. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, this parliamentary group is convinced that it is absolutely essential to ensure a degree of conservation of the roads whose ownership corresponds to our autonomous administration, in order to ensure the safety of those who use them in their movements. What's at stake is that same security of the users who use them, that is, of all of us, which we understand and very positively value the budgetary effort that the Government is making to ensure the perfect state of the shooting layers on our roads. And this effort becomes even more intense in a community like ours, which has one of the most extensive networks in the state, as we once said. But I'm going to be allowed to contrast this attitude of the Government of Galicia with other local administrations. We're watching the already countless complaints and complaints from Compostela's neighbours over the last few weeks that, because of more than poor conservation and maintenance of the urban roads in this city, do nothing but go to the repair workshops with damage on the wheels of their vehicles. And if you go to those workshops thank you, it's because of the number of seals that exist on the streets of municipal ownership, and without those who would have to fix them do anything or almost nothing. It seems that for some Tide governments to properly preserve the streets and roads of their city hall is a minor and not urgent matter, even if the damage caused to their administrations is important. But, Counsellor, this group prefers, like the Government of Galicia, to work to solve the real problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, those that have in real life, not those of some television dishes. That is why we ladies and gentlemen ask you the question on the agenda, what are the forecasts for the implementation of this plan for the Council of Galicia? Nothing else and thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Goldar. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u302	Thank you, President. Your Honor, the preservation of the routes of autonomy and the improvement of road safety, of course, are strategic axes in this government's road policy, because we are talking about people's lives and integrity. I think there's nothing above that, two subjects that are intrinsically united, because investing in the best of our roads is investing in road safety, so we believe and we are convinced that keeping roads in good condition is important for all our territories, but even more so for our community, because they know that Galicia has a network of roads from Spain's widest roads, and also supports weather conditions that require special care from our roads to ensure the safety of the users who pass through them. At Junta we understand this and, despite the complicated economic situation in recent years, road safety and road conservation have always had a prominent place, and now we have intensified as much effort as resources to keep roads in the best possible conditions. That's why we approved the 20162020 Road Safety Plan in February. The aim is to maximize the number of traffic accidents and also minimize their effects, the main objective is to reduce victims to 50% with 49 measures, 49 concrete measures and 300 million euros for the period 20162020. It has five basic principles. One of them is to achieve safer transit routes and mobility. That's where this firm reinforcement plan is located, and that's why this firm reinforcement plan that we put in place and that we're developing has outstanding performances both through and through urban areas. Especially important, for its investment and population, are these urban truces, 180 crossings, 200 kilometers of urban truces. A firm reinforcement plan that will mobilise in 2016 EUR 23.5 million and we will act at 578 kilometres of road networks in Junta de Galicia. We're moving forward in their development, despite the fact that we've been running it for only three months. We have already started hiring most of these works, many of the autonomous roads included in this plan, and we will continue to work for most of them to be executed, especially in their entirety, this year 2016. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u303	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u304	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Counselor, for your answer. In my first speech I tried to make a simple comparison between an administration, the autonomy, which takes seriously its obligation to improve road safety and another, the place in this city where we are, for example, of what its officials, precisely, little or nothing know, little or nothing do. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the paradigm of the good government of the Tides, of the Podemos, speaking with property. Those themselves who come to save the world and fix the problems of the neighbors, but once they beg them, they repeat them and convince them, they mysteriously forget to do so; but they ask the neighbors and the neighbors of this city to see that they think. [[Applause]] Mr. Fajardo spoke little in this plenary, Mr. President. [[Mr. Fajardo pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You must want to keep talking. He said - I'm allowed - that there's nothing left to go out into Santiago's streets so that we can check, even suffer, the most regrettable state of the inner highway firm and of those that give access to Santiago, most of the municipal title. Almost a year's management and I'm not able to solve a problem that already affects thousands of users who attend so hard to deal with. And this way of ruling--Mr. Fajardo, you are of Vilagarcia, not of Santiago--..., [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u305	Go on, go on, Mr. Goldar, go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u306	Miss Counsellor, that's what they want to extend to a hypothetical government in Galicia. Anyway, I hope this land never has to suffer this. [[Murmurs.]] They'll like us, to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u307	Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet, quiet, please. Let him finish. Let him finish, but this gets long. Let him finish the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u308	Thank you, President. They'll like us, to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u309	I understand that this is tired, but I'm tired too, and we're all tired. Finish, finish the question. Finish, finish the conclusion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u310	To conclude, Gustarianos, who told us... is that they don't let me talk, they bother me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u311	Wait, wait, let's get some rest. We're tired. Calm down, a little quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, come on out, I'm starting to be out of my way. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u312	With your permission, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] Gustarianos, he said--he was trying to say--to conclude, that he indicated to us, Counsellor, if possible, that most outstanding actions include this Plan of Strengthening Firms, and, in addition to the main objectives announced already in his first intervention, which are the actions that he has planned his department to execute in the coming months in this Plan. And finally, when you think it might be over. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u313	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u314	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as I said in my first speech...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u315	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u316	...the Galaga Infrastructure Agency has launched the firm reinforcement plan - 23.5 million euros - and we are working on its development. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Although the Plan has voted to walk for only three months ago, the balance I think I can say is positive, whether we are paying attention to the actions called for or the reference to the kilometers, as well as to the budgets. [[Murmurs.]] Right now, until now, we have bids thirty-seven performances, and in the advanced recruitment phase four performances. Hence, almost 90 % of the firm's reinforcements are already auctioned or in advanced recruitment phase. We have also started hiring this 90 % actuarial, but in 510 kilometers of the 578 planned; 58 new kilometers will be added immediately. Therefore, as a percentage of kilometres, in total, 98 % in tender. In investments, because in investments we have auctioned the amount of nearly 20 million euros, and also in advanced processing state 1.3 million euros. Therefore, which means that 90 % of the total budget of the Firm Reinforcement Plan is requested to run in this exercise. Pending actions, as pending actions are almost 10%, which are in different administrative phases because they are different types of projects, more complex projects and with certain particularities. For example, actions that we are going to take on the Mondoñedo-Vilameá road, at LU-124, Lindín-Cruz de la Cancela, where it is necessary to take expropriations and so at this very moment is the project under way of public information, or also the conditioning of the road between Orders and Cerdeda, by Mercurín, that we are attempting to transfer the title of the road by the municipality. [[Murmurs.]] So, I think I can say that it's a good balance, a good balance in terms of hiring works from this 2016 Joiner Reinforcement Plan of Galicia. Our goal is that most of the work can be carried out in favorable weather conditions, to have greater quality and durability in these works. Signing contracts, they're already signing practically all of them. Our forecast is to make most of all these works this same summer, which may be finished before the end of the year. We're talking about a firm reinforcement plan that, along with ordinary conservation and winter skill, I think we can say that from the German Government we work seriously and work hard to ensure that our roads have road quality and safety, on the roads of the Galician Union. Because to prioritize conservation, to improve conservation, is to ensure road safety, and that, of course, is a priority for our road policy in the Union of Galicia. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u317	Thank you, Counselor. Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the performances carried out by the Government of Greece for payment, by the concessionary company of the cleaning service of several public buildings dependent on the Galician Union, of the monthly payments due to its workers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u318	Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, you don't have to overcome yourself, man; for you won't throw it out today I don't have to overcome yourself. Just hold on to two more questions. [[Laughter]] Mrs. Prado, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u319	Well, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The company Linorsa, as you know, Cleanliness of the Northwest S.A., has the provision of the cleaning service of numerous public buildings dependent on the Galician Union, in different councils - Health Council, Education Council, Rural Environment, Social Policy - and buildings located in different areas of Galicia. This company has a record of non-compliance with the payment of wages and the non-compliance with the working conditions collected in the contracts signed. A long, permanent, and recurring list. This repeated situation of non-compliance with the staff table has been denounced on numerous occasions. Linorsa's workers have been complaining for a long time that the concessionary company does not pay them an important part of their wages, in addition to other non-compliances. They've been demanding the company's compliance for months now, not months, but even years: continuous defaults, late payrolls, extra payments, delays collected at the agreement, and, despite the timely payment of the accounts it transfers to Junta for the cleaning service's contract, because it doesn't promptly pay the workers' amounts. In view of this situation, the works councils decided to convene mobilisations, which did not have the answer by the company. They addressed the Public Service, in this case to the Board, claiming the involvement, to act, for the company to fulfill, and they had no answer either. We're talking about compensation to people--and wages, of course, nothing psychedelic, or much less--who have as a result situations of social emergency for many of these people who can't cope with the payments of their mortgages, rents, bills, food, clothing, because in many cases they're the only income that comes into their homes. Faced with the inhibition of the Galician Union, which stated that it could not act, that it was a problem between companies and workers, that could act only in case the service was affected, and tired of waiting, they summoned strikes in different areas - in Pontevedra Salnés, in Lugo, in Compostela -. This situation has also been aggravated by the fact that the Social Security and the Fända accounts and also by the request of the Voluntary Entrance Company to tender creditors in mid-April. The workers demand the administration's involvement, that the service be rescued and that the service be re-allocated or directly handled by the Administration. It is not acceptable for the Board to keep contracts with a company that systematically fulfills its obligations to the staff.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u320	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u321	So, Counselor, what we ask you is, what you've done, what you're doing, what you're going to do to solve the problem that the workers have -- basically workers -- with the Linorsa cleaning company?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, I'm sorry, actually, that I bring here again a difficult situation that the workers and workers of Linorosa are going through to do political demagogy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm telling you this first because what I think a responsible opposition can't do is ask the Galician Council for an action without tone or sound. You know perfectly well that there are laws to be complied with and the first that you have to comply with those laws, logically, is the administration itself. But besides, Mrs Prado, I think that what you can't do is in this House to pose this problem, which is a real problem,--and that logically the Administration is acting--but what you shouldn't bring to this House is a problem tried to move that is an exclusive problem of the procurement of the Greek Public Administration, because you know perfectly well that's not so either. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So it's a subject of opportunism, probably of nervousness that's going through your group lately, but I think if we want to talk in a serious way, especially when these problems affect workers and workers, I think we have to do it with a certain rigor. You know, Your Honor, that the Council of Galicia in this case is involved by a double situation: firstly, in the labor field - logically - and, secondly, in the issue of recruitment. From a labour point of view, the Union, as always, is acting; it is acting to manage all the complaints that have been lodged in the labour inspection. And, therefore, allegations that are being dealt with, that are being investigated and that--have no doubt--if the sanction proceed, logically, to sanction any infringement that could have been committed by this company--as is done, by the way, in all cases--. In the discharge of the contract, you know, too, that these contracts are being terminated; they are being terminated when legal proceedings so permit. And the Galician Union began the procedure for completing these contracts when it allowed it to be legislate, and always starting a new contract with a subrogation from the workers. Therefore, Your Honor, I regret that you deliberately bring this situation. You know that the Galician Union is acting, and by the way, it's acting like other public administrations in similar cases, such as the BNG is doing in Pontevedra Town Hall, or it's being done by the Pontevedra Deputy. I think, Your Honor, you have a great opportunity to withdraw this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u324	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u325	Look at a little thing, Counselor, what do you think this Parliament is for? He's about to monitor your Government's work. I asked you for explanations in the part that corresponds to you! He's got a lot of answers! In the part that corresponds to other administrations, it will be up to others to ask for explanations. What I see is that you've been very badly asked for explanations. Because you're not here to come to conceal, you're here to account. To account! And I have an obligation to bring to this Parliament the problems of the Greeks and the Greeks, and there are hundreds of workers who have problems because they are hired by a company that doesn't meet and that doesn't pay them. And since they don't pay, they don't come by the end of the month, and they can't live decently. And you, if I had a little decency, what I had to say is that acting is solving the problem. And look, the Galician Union didn't act diligently. I told you at first that they've been denouncing this situation for years, and Junta had to act for a long time now, and for the time being it has not been able to terminate the contract, nor has the Teaching Council with regard to the educational centres, nor does Sergas, for example, in Lugo, or other proceedings, with which he could have acted and not done it. And besides, it was that Junta had information, by land, sea and air, about which was the situation of this company because she had complaints from the workers, communication by the Business Council and by the Tax Agency, which blocked her accounts. So, Junta was a wise man, and despite that, she extended her contract, so don't come here and pretend because she can't assume it in this case. And what I want to ask you here today, on behalf of the workers, is to speed up the procedures, to actually terminate those contracts, to take out new tenders and to solve the problems for the workers. Let them be diligent and act immediately, let them not follow the slowness with which they are doing so far. In addition, which introduce social clauses into the new requirements that allow, when a company fails to meet the workers, when it does not pay wages or when it does not meet other working conditions, the Administration, in this case the Council of Galicia, which is why it has to answer you here, acts and rescinds those contracts. Very simple questions, Mr. Count, of which you must answer. Of the BNG problems we've already dealt with at BNG. You take care of your own and your own party, just like that's enough for you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u326	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u327	Mrs. Prado, it's a matter of discretion. It's nothing else. I see that you have a criterion, but logically at least, when it comes to these kinds of situations, I think a little rigour is important I, of course, do not minimize or avoid the situation that the workers and the workers of Linorsa have. [[Mr Prado, words that are not perceived.]] We are busy and are logically concerned about that situation, and from the very first moment the Administration, the Galician Union, has acted and continues to act. [[Mr Prado, words that are not perceived.]] So all the solidarity and commitment of the German Government, and, of course, from the BNG we will not admit any kind of lesson of solidarity or occupation on the part of the workers' situation. I told him, and I did it hard, and what happens is that I may not have explained myself properly. But from the point of view of work, the government is acting where it has to act, which is at the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate is following the entire process of handling the complaints that have been lodged, 12 specific complaints. You're following that process and, logically, I believe and understand that you will also respect the procedures of the Labour Inspectorate. Of course, we, from the Government, do. Secondly, I've also transferred to you that we are with the contract resolution files for non-compliance, where there is a regulation that needs to be complied with. I understand that the BNG always wants to transfer that the laws are not to be complied with. Mrs. Prado, the laws are to be fulfilled. So as soon as a situation of non-compliance has occurred, it's acting on the Galician Union, and from then on we, at the first possible moment, are starting the new contracts. This is what allows us to legislate, and we're applying it in a diligent and effective way. As I moved it, it's the same thing that BNG and other parties are doing. What I don't understand, honestly, Mrs. Prado, is that you come here to transfer that what you're doing in Galicia is not good for them, and what you're doing at the BNG in Pontevedra Town Hall if it's good for them, when we're doing the same thing. Your Honor, I believe that in that sense we are acting -- I insist -- diligently; we are opening the record of non-compliance by this company; we are starting new contracts, following our own regulations; and, logically, we are also following the competitive procedure so that the competitive administrator can cope with the pay situation of these workers and workers. The Galician Union can assure you that it will continue to strictly comply with the law, worrying about and taking care of the workers and keeping the jobs in the various contracts it has with the Greek Public Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u328	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da María Concepción Burgo López and six other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the reasons for the delay of the Government of Galicia in opening the Nuclear Medicine Service committed to the University Hospital Lucus Agusti de Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u329	You have the floor to Mrs. Burgo López.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Counselor. Counsellor, you know perfectly well that the relations between the citizens of the province of Lugo and the Government of Mr Feijóo, since 2009, are characterized by unmet promises of the Government of Mr Feijóo and the struggle of the neighbours to have the necessary health services and to obtain equal access to those health services. As you well know, Mr. Counsellor, President Feijóo promised at the inauguration of the University Hospital Lucus Augusti, in February 2011, that the hospital would have - even in that same year - the services of Hemodynamics 24 hours, Radiotherapy and Nuclear Medicine. More than six years later, the citizens of the province of Lugo have to continue fighting with demonstrations and through ILP, continuously, and we have to keep asking, claiming our rights in this Parliament, because, as you also know perfectly, hemodynamics is only working on office hours, though the data given by the Union itself indicate that the lumens take more than three hours to receive a primary anxioplasty when they should do it in 90 minutes. Radiotherapy only has one accelerator, and also paid for the charity of the Ortega Amancio Foundation, because you didn't plan to pay that accelerator. Still a accelerator is missing, which they promised but, as always, they didn't. And from the Nuclear Medicine Service, also promised by Mr Feijóo in February 2011, we have nothing left, absolutely nothing. The former advisor said she had applied for permission from the National Council for Nuclear Safety in July 2015, a year ago. According to President Feijóo, the necessary technology was helped in May 2015, a year ago; and helped the house Philips Iberian. Besides, Mr. Feijóo said Lugo would have priority. One year. We have nothing. And in their parliamentary response, in November 2015, they said everything was ready, just waiting for the machines. That when they arrived, they would be ready, and open everything at the same time as radiation therapy. We have nothing and we don't know anything. Six years later, we have no nuclear medicine, which you know is absolutely necessary and fundamental to diagnose and determine the severity of a large number of heart diseases, oncology, endocrines, neurologics, even as therapy to treat various cancers, and we have nothing. And what we want to know, Counselor, is what happens. Do you have or don't you have the machines? Do you have a seat or don't you have a seat? You think they're starting nuclear medicine or not, and when? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u332	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. In principle, Mrs. Burgo, I have to lie to you the biggest one. Unfulfilled promises. I think, if we can't talk about unfulfilled promises in something, it's in health, and less in Lugo. [[Murmurs.]] Since we got to the government, we've been working and we've made every possible technical and economic effort to put the new Lugo hospital into operation, an empty building that we've equipped and equipped with the highest technology. For this it was necessary to invest together more than 80 million euros, to finish the works of the hospital and equip it with modern care and patient safety technology. So at this moment we can say that the citizens of Lugo have the most modern hospital in Spain and one of the most modern in Europe. [[Murmurs.]] As for the Nuclear Medicine Unit at the Luus Augusti University Hospital, I have to point out that he is currently in the process of opening up. The previte unit is adscribed to the Radiodiagnosis Service. It is currently only pending the granting of operating authorisation by the Nuclear Safety Council. I also remind you, Your Honor, that this same process has been done for the start-up of the Radiotherapy Service in the last months of 2015, and these two different processes. As we have already moved forward in the answer to the question that refers to the explanatory statement, the installations are already adapted and the necessary equipment is also purchased. Similarly, the Functional Plan of the unit is defined, with all its definitive processes. The timing of the proceedings to date is as follows: Preparation of the area in 2015. Pre-installation of the gammacamera by the adjudicator in January 2016. Acquisition of waste treatment systems and insulation systems, completed in March of the same year. And forwarding the documentation and file to the Nuclear Security Council, also in March of this year. Finally, both by the HULA in particular, as well as by the Galego Health Service in general, we have already done all the pre-post procedures in operation of the unit. Today, therefore, the implementation of it is only pending the prior authorization and inspection of the Nuclear Security Council, a situation other than Sergas; but I have to tell you that it will be very soon. So, in the ULA, the Radiotherapy Service has an area of 1,750 square meters, and next to it, the Nuclear Medicine Service occupies an area of 1,625 meters. I don't think there's a wide area in Galicia, both for radiation therapy and for nuclear medicine. With the operation of both, it is possible that certain diagnostic and therapeutic processes can be performed at Lugo Hospital under the same conditions as they were done up to now in other hospitals. In this way, the health care provided to citizens is substantially improved; the latest technologies are made available to health professionals, and the productivity and diagnostic capacity of a vanguard hospital, such as the Luus Augusti University Hospital, is increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u333	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Counsellor, you're talking about how they put the HULA on the move as if it were charity. It was his duty! And I want to tell you that those installations that you're talking about, of so many meters, were a modification of the project made by this so bad Bipartite, because you, in the HULA project, had not predicted radiotherapy, nuclear medicine or hemodynamics; that is, it was a modification of the project done by us. But besides, Counselor, as always, we don't have an answer. You'll know--because it's your duty to know--when, more or less, we'll have that permission. By the way, her predecessor said in the media that she had asked for in July 2015. So, here's someone lying. Or I lied to the former counselor or you, but someone doesn't tell the truth. Was it asked in July 2015, as you said in the media in Lugo the previous Counsellor? Or was it asked now? On the other hand, do they have or do they not have the machines in HULA? Looks like they're shopping, aren't they in HULA? Yeah, they just need that permission. And when are we gonna get that permission? What I know, and you know the whole province and Lugo and the citizens, is that we continue with hemodynamics in office hours; an unfulfilled promise, because it had to be 24 hours. And we've continued with medium-gas radiotherapy, with a single accelerator paid by the Amancio Ortega Foundation. If the foundation didn't come here--for charity, as always--we wouldn't have that particle accelerator. We need another one and you're not, Counselor. They broke every promise, one behind another. And failing to keep those promises, Counselor, they're endangering the lives of the lights. That's why we're going to continue to claim everything we need for hospital services, we're going to continue to exercise this control function, and we're going to continue to denounce the lies, one after another, of you. And I insist, they haven't met the first one yet. Neither hemodynamics 24 hours nor two accelerators nor nuclear medicine. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u335	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u336	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to start because the truth is I have a lot of data to give. But I'm going to start by saying what you rightly don't know. The nuclear medicine machines, specifically the gammacamera, are mounted in Lugo, at the Lugo hospital. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Madam Acuña speaks words that are not perceived.]] May I speak, Mrs. Acuña? Let me go?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u337	He's giving important information, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u338	If you ask the question, I'll answer it. It's in Lugo's hospital, the gammacamera. He's talking about machines. This isn't machines, this is high technology, which also needs the attention of specialists, prepared people. [[Murmurs.]] Look, no, let's see... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u339	Mrs. Acuña, don't spoil Mrs. Burgo's question, which you asked. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u340	The Counsellor, Mrs Mosquera, says that you have to apply for authorization from the Nuclear Medicine Agency, you have to ask for it before; and then you have to install what is the gammacamera and then come to the Inspectorate to check that the gammacamera has the correct specifications. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Not only the gammacamera, but also the space that the Bipartite has the Lugo hospital. [[Murmurs.]] The Bipartite went through all the facilities, but forgot to do what was important, which is put the gammacamera. [[Murmurs.]] So, nuclear medicine inspectors from the Spanish Agency came here and now they have to issue the report. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It will soon be open, and it will be open as radiation therapy, open as hemodynamics. It's not true what you're saying, and I think it's wrong from a professional point of view that we talk about office hours, with all our respect to the staff. The attention to hemodynamics and heart surgery is 24 hours, 365 days in Galicia; elsewhere I don't know, here it is. And what the study says - by the way, it is requested by this Parliament - is that the mortality of Lugo's patients is exactly the same as that of all the Greeks and also that of the Spaniards. So I think the work being done is important. And we shouldn't talk about office hours, with all due respect, because I think a health system is something else, much more important. And to tell you too--because I think you're very wrong--that of Mr. Ortega's quality I think we have something important to say: that there's a company that gets benefits at world level and re-visited much here, in Galicia. And we used what he revised in Galicia to expand the technological supply and the offer of professionals in Welsh health. I think you're both at ease in one thing and in another. [[Murmurs.]] And to tell you that nuclear medicine will be as it is already operating radiotherapy in Lugo -- very important, as I say -- and I'm going to give you some data that you probably don't know -- because if you don't know that the gammacamera is installed -- because I'm going to give you some data about it. And to tell you today, the HULA radiotherapy unit has conducted its first 65 consultations and managed 298 radiotherapy sessions, and with the operation of the gammacamera it will be estimated that about 2,000 people a year, 2,000 lumens will benefit from this important means of diagnosis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u341	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Eva Solla Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Alternative Galega de Left on the results of the health model of Junta de Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u342	Question by Mrs Eva Solla Fernández, of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u343	Thank you, President. Counsellor, it seems a lie, after what you've just said, but the reality is that the Health Council doesn't meet practically anything it commits to. His management, the government's health management Feijóo, makes water. We are already finishing the second legislation and the balance cannot be more outrageous, not only for the budget cuts - which we have already denounced in this House, although you even deny it - that they are of the order of 276 million euros in nominal terms, that they increase in real terms; they are still increased above all with those payment commitments that you acquired, as in the case of Vigo's private hospital, a hospital that must cost 450 million and which now costs 1.400, with 400 beds less than you would have. And the balance is not only outraged by the brutal cuts of staff--we have denounced them here on many occasions-- : 1,795 less squares, 1,154 of them in primary care, and with a very high temporality, unbearable for workers and workers, workers and temporary workers who even denounced in the last few days 40 contracts a year in the case of some of them, telephone hangers and every day in a service. The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has just sentenced you to law fraud in the contracts of ten Vigo cells, forcing you to assume them as indefinite personnel, accumulating contracts for accumulation of tasks since September 2009. So we're right: you use the health care staff with total impunity, especially those we're possible with. And not only does it seem outrageous to us to manage the removal of only 400 beds since you rule, to close the beds that are produced while these waiting lists are increasing. In Vigo two more floors were now closed, two more rooms in this Mexoeiro Hospital, despite the folding of beds. We also know today that report of three-year delays to intervene at Compostela hospital or eight months of delay in the examination consultations of oncoholic patients. Not only is it outrageous for privatizations, and not only is it because of their lack of pharmaceutical policy-- meningitis vaccine, hepatitis C drugs, reparations--and it's not only outraged by all the other policies that have led us to the failure of planning where we are installed. But, above all, it's outrageous because you're still there despite having two people charged in your counseling, to whom you were standing by at this time when three weeks ago that charge, and also because of the way they treat us, in which they treat sick people, citizenship, professionals and professionals. I'm able to compare us with Hands Cleans, to expel them from Parliament, to lie to them and then question their protests. Even you can threaten them with sanctions if they keep protesting in hospitals. I wonder if that's your commitment to ethics. And I wonder, therefore--and since all I have just reported is evidence of your political failure in health matters, also that of Mr. Feijóo--if you, Counselor, will assume the failure of your health model and of Mr. Feijóo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u344	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Solla. Answer. Counsellor of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u345	With forgiveness, Mrs. Solla, you have a salad in your head that I haven't understood the truth. I don't know why I have to speak as Health Counsellor about sanctions in Parliament, expulsions, I don't know why it has to do with the Health Council. [[Murmurs.]] But look, we're going to try to answer what we think you're wrong. First of all, you claim that the health of the population does not seem to be the priority for this government. [[Murmurs.]] It's very surprising, because you know very well that, in fact, it's not only a priority, it's the first priority of this government. The data is there. Health is the largest part of the budgets. The fact that the budget percentage for health is up to 40% of the total of the Union is the best indicator that this Government commitment consists of the public health system. It also speaks of deterioration and failure of the health system, another clearly mistaken statement. I advise you not to create your own propaganda. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is very reconstructive that those who claim to defend public health are systematically engaged in denigrating it to use it as an electoral tool, and more so you, which is in the Vigo area; only talks about Vigo's hospital--private public, call it, I don't know-- [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, it's not true that this failure, and the objective indicators there, we clearly make them manifest. For example, can you talk about failure when you significantly increase Sergas' surgical activity? In 2015 we made 185,272 interventions, almost 17,000 interventions more than in 2009, reaching in 2013 the milestone that for the first time outpatient interventions exceeded those that require income - important for the quality of our patients - and all of this with an optimal level in surgical performance, exceeding 75%. Can we talk about failure when we can lower the waiting list for patients with more severe pathologies to priority 1, the Greeks and the Greeks who are waiting for less than 20 days to operate? Can you talk about failure when the number of hospital appointments in ordinary days conducted in 2015 was 4,237,000, which is 460,000 more than in 2009? And the Greeks wait less: in 2009 the average waiting time for a consultation was 71 days and currently it is 51.4, almost 20 days less. Can you talk about failure in management when we favor citizens' participation in management of Galicia's public health system? A great milestone is the constitution of the Galego Council of Patients in September 2011, resulting in being the first autonomous community to carry it out. Sergas was also a pioneer with the creation of the Galician School of Health for Citizens. Can we talk about failure when we modernize our facilities in a very important way, despite the crisis we have suffered? Equipment: we have put into operation the new hospitals of Lugo and Vigo, we continue the Director Plan of the Hospital Complex of Coruña, we have begun the expansion of the Hospital do Salnés and the Hospital de Ourense, we are working in the future of the hospitals of Ferrol and Conxo, we act in 36 health centers and 25 new...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u346	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u347	...with 9 others in construction. Can you talk about failure when the Greeks today have an electronic medical history and an electronic recipe that is a reference? Can you talk about failure when this year is going to cover the entire Galician community? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u348	Thank you, thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u349	Thank you, President. I'll have some sort of salad but you must review your hearing, because, look, failure is not health, failure is your health model. And I'm going to tell you, I just told you about the budget cuts, the personnel cuts, the problem of waiting lists and the situation in which you have the workers and potential workers. But I'm telling you more, that you're talking about upgrading the facilities, please! [[Murmurs.]] You go through hospitals and health centers; I do, it seems you don't. We have talked on many occasions in the Health Committee about how they are: drips, even radiators fall, wall cracks; a widespread deterioration that is the result of a planning failure for years; you do nothing at all. They didn't practically do anything about all those health centers they were going to do. You tell the people of the World why they're still waiting, when they've had lots of land for years to build their health center. You tell the citizens of Pontevedra why they have to wait for the expansion of Montecelo and you're still trusting in that PFI model of Monte Carrasco. But by the way, Mr. Counselor, look, that you try here to give some kind of lesson is quite regrettable. When you arrived six months ago, you could still have the benefit of the doubt; now you are heir to the same policies you have given with Mrs Mosque on the street. Tomorrow you have a demonstration in Vigo against your management, against your politics and against the management of Mr. Feijóo's politics. And once again you're listening, because you don't know what this is about the Health Council. They have no idea of health planning, and here comes to transfer us an absent plan into two legislats. Don't assume what you can't. And, above all, please make it clear that tomorrow's citizenship will come out again and tell them what they can't say in this House: you don't represent us to health care. And, by the way, Mr. Padre, tomorrow you'll have a few voices that will explain it to you quite clearly. I hope you take note and we do not have to wait for another mobilization to stop you and for the candidate Mr Feijóo to be terminated from his position as president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u350	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Solla. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u351	Well, Mrs. Solla, I see that you know much more than I do the reality of health, basically in Pontevedra, because something else does not seem to know. You know the difference? I visit the centers, but I don't have cameras or Facebook. I've been many more times. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Look, to talk so bad about the best health center we've got right now in Galicia, which is your area, I've never seen a positive comment from you about that center, and I find it regrettable, it seems regrettable. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] And look, the cessation of the president of the Galician board knows it's not the finger, right? It's by popular vote. We'll wait until there's elections to see if the president stops or stops you, possibly. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs Solla, we want fair, sufficient and quality public health services, and we use them efficiently. Therefore, I want to defend the respect that Sergas and their professionals deserve. Closing our system as failure is not acceptable. As much as I'm responsible for the public health system in Galicia, I have an obligation to defend your prestige. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Despite the obvious difficulty and the possible mistakes that can be made--everyone who makes decisions may be wrong-- during the process I think we face this challenge with solvency. We made it through the efforts of professionals and managers working in the Welsh public health. And the measures driven by the Council, and, in general, by the Government of the United States, I think they're the advisable ones and the important ones. The fact that the budget percentage for health is going to be over 40%, I think it's the first indicator, but there's a lot more. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] That's why it's necessary to continue transforming the care model, moving from a reactive care model to a proactive model, focusing primarily on health promotion and disease prevention, the approach to chronicity, self-management and self-care of the disease, and the promotion of active and healthy aging. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, you're talking sick about health care or the health model, as you mean; but it turns out that there's an important majority of polls in Galicia that are in favor, uh! More than 70% of the Greeks think that Greek health is good. Maybe if the Galicians are wrong, it could be, it could be! Even above the Spanish criteria on the state health system. So I don't think we're doing things that bad. And to tell you something, look, I've collected data from an association that I think is all right: the Federation of Public Health Associations: September 2015 report. Well, look, in 2010, after the Bipartite, we were on line 15, according to this association, of 17. And right now, in 2015, we're at the seventh place. Oh, that's not enough. We want to go up more. But at the most difficult moment, in a difficult economic situation, Galicia has improved its relationship with the rest of the Spanish state. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] So, I think everything is better, but we're on the positive line. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's why...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u352	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u353	... thanks to the patients and thanks to our professionals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-11-DSPG153.u354	Thank you, Counselor. Out of items on the agenda, session up.
