ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u1	Good morning to all of you. Let us resume the meeting with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for the President's oral answer. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the evaluation of the equality policies of the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u2	We begin with the question of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u3	Mr. President, I'm going to distract you for a few minutes from that hamletian doubt that you have about your work in the private company. We know you've worked hard, you've done some credit for having a proper curriculum. For example, showing enough sensitivity to people's suffering. You, along with yours, expelled the young Galician from the labour market, devalued wages and abolished rights. Business benefits have grown at the same time as the standard of living for most people has worsened. In case it wasn't enough, you gave the wind of Galicia to some companies in exchange for illusory investments, allowed a ballat with Vigo's hospital paying more than twice as much of its real cost, privatized freely all kinds of public services in favor of a few. It is the service sheet of an executive serving the markets of large corporations, with austerity revenues and contrary to growth that have failed here and everywhere in Europe, as the president of the Central Bank, Mr. Draghi, now recognizes. But today we wanted to talk to you about equality policies, firstly in the labour market. Greek women have more difficulties in accessing employment, more difficulties in permanence and less opportunities for promotion than men, of course, and they receive wages that are about twenty-three points lower than their male companions. It is shown that there is a relationship in all countries between lower domestic equity and lower participation in the labour market. In Galicia, for every hour of unpaid family work men do, women spend four hours, as a result: three out of four women have part-time jobs; they also have greater temporality, and they finally receive much lower pensions. It corrects me: of the temporary jobs, of every four, three are occupied by women. Women aren't born, they're gone, Simone de Beauvoir said. What do you culturally do to help them be women? Vocational training students, women are two thirds in the administrative branch, 94% in the image and hairdressing branch, 86% in the socio-Community service branch and 88% in the textile branch; of course, branches with worse wages. Instead, they represent only 3% in automobiles, 8% in energy, 14% in computer science, and 17% in installations and maintenance, which are obviously the best-paid specialties. Mr President, if employment policy doesn't work, if training gives me what I just told you and if conciliation isn't developed, do you want to tell us what it's going to do for equality?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u4	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, you talked about a lot of things at the beginning of your intervention, including the job reform. I had the opportunity last week to attend Mr. Candido Méndez's guest at his farewell as UXT secretary-general, next to Nicolás Redondo – not a son, but a father – and we talked, among other things, about the difficulties governments have in understanding sometimes with trade union organizations. You will remember, Your Honor, when there were two general strikes against Felipe González for his work reforms; it is more, in one of them Nicolás Redondo, Secretary General of the UXT, left the act of deputy of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. There was also former President Rodríguez Zapatero and he also remembered how Mr Rodríguez Zapatero – you should know because he was high in charge of that government – he had two general strikes for his work policies. So, Your Honor, I simply wish that for the sake of equality, you have an equal treatment with the history of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and with the gift of the People's Party. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I understand today we have come to talk about something else: women's equality, allow me to answer part of your question. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, it's obvious that we're still suffering actual and real inequality between women and men, no doubt. On 8 March, I had the opportunity with other members of the Government to be in the institutional act of the Galician Union to just celebrate that commitment. And there were several women who gave their witness. Older women recognized that we were in a much better situation than they had during their youth. However, younger women claimed that there were still many things to be done. I agree with the two and what concerns me is the testimony of the second, that is, there are still a lot left to do. Your Honor, that's why we approved the 6th German Equality Plan, the only one that has an economic memory, 220 million euros. Of all the equality plans approved by the Autonomous Community, five out of seven were adopted by the People's Party. We will now present the following plan by 2020. That's why, Your Honor, we're going to continue working on equality. Ladies and gentlemen, when you talk to me about the woman's work problems, I share that thesis, but let me at least give her the data. Look: the active population, in 2002, only 42% of women were part of the active population, today 47.7%, about 5.7 points more; the female occupied population in 2002 was 40%, today 47%, seven points more, and the female stop population in 2002 was 61%, and today 50%, that is, eleven points less.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u7	Your Honor, I am convinced that you will be as happy as I am if I give you the data you just got published: Galicia was the second autonomous community where women's wages increased. And I'm sure you'll be glad if I also tell you that in 2015 there are 13,400 women, as reflected by EPA, who have found work. Your Honor, if you talk to me about equality, I agree with you: much remains to be done. But with all due respect this government works for equality. Unfortunately still without the data and the results we'd like. [[Murmurs.]] But, Mr. Méndez Romeo, speaking of equality within the Socialist Party today is impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u9	Mr. President, let me guess what you've been talking about there with Mr. Redondo and all those unionists, I know that the union issue especially puts it. Did they perhaps tell him that they were excited, delighted and applauded and supported his job reform, or were they just talking slowly about what history was when we were younger and all this? Mr. Feijó, let's be serious. [[Murmurs.]] The data you give me is good enough to keep in mind that in the last seven years with you has dropped the number of people in this country and has increased unemployment. From there we can talk. Look, Mr President, your policy of equality: reducing employment budgets by half, has eliminated 211 million euros each year. That is the reality in employment policies. And do you know how far the equality budgets went down? I inform the House, which you already know: 78%. But what are you talking about, Mr. Feijóo? Attention to women in situations of gender-based violence. In 2008, the Xunta guarantee between salary and social benefits from thirty-four to forty months of coverage, and today you guarantee six months, part six, Mr Feijóo. And yet violence has unfortunately remedied and we have the worst figure in the state. If you don't like the figures and you prefer the symbolic data, look at the government bank, you have four advisors about ten, and for them you had to give each half a counselor, and all together they manage only 13% of the budget. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's there...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u10	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u11	Lexislation of the Friendly Government: restrictions on the interruption of pregnancy for women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u13	16 and 17 years old, women's difficulties in accessing assisted reproductive treatments and the scandal of lamentable care to women with euretic abortion. Mr. Feijóo, with this background, the truth is that I am not surprised at anything that you crave and embrace and entrust Mr. Baltar; rather than making public calls for job coverage, I prefer to quote people in humiliating conditions in Suite 505.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u14	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Close round, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u15	Your Honor, I think you should withdraw the comment you have made about this government's advisors. I think so, I should withdraw it; there you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] It's their concept of equality. Your Honor, with eight... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u16	Silence! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u17	If the women of the Socialist Party are in favour of their comments, they won't withdraw it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u18	Mrs. Acuña, silence, please! Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u19	...this government had eight advisories...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u20	Quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u21	...for a long time, eight councillors; the holder of the same, of the eight government councils, five were women and three men. Did you tell me that government in Galician history had less than 40% of men in its government? Consequently, with dubious compliance with the Law of Equality, but vice versa. Look, Your Honor, if you have that concept of the Government, of the advisers who make it up and of your abilities is your problem, I'm going to continue working with the Greek women. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u22	Quiet. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u23	Look, Your Honor, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u24	Quiet, please. Ma'am!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u25	...recurrent economic aid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u26	Mrs. Hold on, shut up, shut up. Mr. Lumba, be quiet. Please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u27	Your Honor, the regular economic aid to the victims, Galicia is the only autonomous community that has them. We've had nine consecutive years, including recession. There's only one community that started in 2014, which is Extreme. But the Greeks and the Greeks dedicate our taxes, a part – I'm sure it's not enough – to help the victims of gender-based violence. We've invested 22 million euros, and we've been paying attention to those 3,000 women's help. Ladies and gentlemen, we've been supporting eighty women's information centres and raising the last budget by 36%. We created a Galego Observatory of the Victims of Genre. We opened the first and only integral center to treat women with gender-based violence and to protect them. We included curricula in our public schools to warn of the macho nonsense that is taking place against women. And the plan to dynamize local tables against gender-based violence is being coordinated with all the municipalities. Your Honor, we can take advantage of this control session to speak or to wake up, I think it would be logical; we can also take advantage of it to cross a partisan reproach. I have, of course, come to this question to speak and to wake up. I think that's what the entire Greek society is asking us to do. If you continue to use this as well to cross a partisan reproach, it gives me the feeling that your chances of losing are multiplied by ten. We multiplied the squares of children's schools by ten much more; that's why this government when it arrived had 13,000 infantry school squares and today there are 20,000 infantry school squares, 60% more. Your Honor, when we arrived at the government, there were 21 squares of children's schools of every 1,000 children...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u29	...today there are 33. Your Honor, we have fulfilled the European Union's ratios. And commitment is not to do what we've done, no, commitment is to keep working. And that's why in the next course, fourteen new children's schools will start operating. Your Honor, about the history of labour reforms, what I can tell you is that the Foundation for Applied Economic Studies says textually:... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u31	..."The job reform has created jobs". His labor reforms, Mr. Méndez Romeo, as you know and history believes, have created unemployment. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the Greek wind sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u33	Question by Mr Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, between you and me, now that no one hears us, does he present himself or not? Look, I don't know if you're going to introduce yourself, what I do know, Mr. Feijóo, is that the first time you've introduced yourself to the Chair of the Chair, feeding on two falsities: [[Murmurs.]] The first, that of the taxation of the Greek. It is now the Council of Europe itself that warns you of the demolition effect on the policies of normalization of our language of evil called the "Decree of Plurilingualism", and denounces that its Government is in breach of the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages signed by the Spanish State. And the second falsehood, Mr. Feijóo, was that the previous government's wind competition was illegal. And now the Supreme says that what was illegal was the annulment of that contest, which you incured in power deviation. And the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia has just said that what is illegal is the wind competition of its Government. Unfortunately, Mr. Feijóo, justice says that illegality has been committed by you, you were the ones who created a situation of legal insecurity. And the consequence is the ruin of a sector where we were pointers. When you arrived at the Presidency of the United States, we were the largest wind power in the Spanish state, and now we are the fourth, Mr. Feijóo. Last year in Europe, investment in wind energy grew by 40%. In Germany alone more than 6,000 megawatts were installed; in Galicia zero, Mr. Feijóo. They announced that with the new tender they would invest EUR 6 billion, which would be created between direct and indirect jobs 13,200 jobs, and it turns out that in recent years the result of their policies was zero megawatts installed, zero euros invested and not a single job created. His Government has just presented the Strategic Plan of Galicia 2015-2020. They intend to increase the consumption of renewable energy by 30%. Can you tell me how you intend to do it, Mr. Feijóo?, with decisions that have caused paralysis and the ruin of the sector, allowing the central government to tell you policies that completely nullify our potential in this?, applauding that the central government decrees the stopping of renewables, also applauding that it penalises electrical self-consumption? Mr. Feijó, once again his irresponsibility and sectarianism came out very expensive to this country. So are you going to assume responsibilities for the fiasco caused by the decisions of your Government in the Greek wind sector? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u35	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u36	Mr. Jorquera, in the same intimacy as you ask me that question, first, whether we're going to have a candidate or not. Look, Your Honor, what we're going to aspire to is for the People's Party to be the first party to run for the presidency of Galicia. That's our goal, Your Honor. For us Galicia is the most important thing, we're born here, we're going to keep working here. And for the People's Party, Your Honor, the goal is to have a candidate before the rest of the political forces. [[Applause]] I won't tell you whether you're going to be a candidate or not because I have no interest in bothering you. Look, Your Honor, two reasons for the wind competition: The first one, we cancelled the wind competition because so the Greeks sent it to us. In 2009 we presented ourselves to the elections as you know and in the election program of the People's Party – let me quote them – "The PPdEG" – said the electoral program – "will automatically review the entire proceedings of the wind competition, proceeding, if necessary, to its cancellation and a new summons. Even so, "the final adjudication resolution will be adopted by the Council of the European Union, the highest body of the German Government." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, we cancelled the wind competition because it was an electoral commitment voted in the ballot box. Your Honor, we also annul the wind competition because, of course, 20 judgments confirm that the cancellation of the Bipartite wind competition is correct, including a Supreme Court judgment. You should not avoid this information in the House. And the second reason, Your Honor, for which we cancelled the wind competition was a surviving reason; it's true, we'll find out later. Let me quote a courageous and sensible and very revealing statement about the Bipartite's wind competition. I read textually: "To me the most serious political problems came from the way that the White Counsellor and Vice-President Quintana were instrumental in this process, which did not offer guarantees from the perspective of land management, environmental sustainability, the economic viability of the projects that accompanied each offer." I'm going on: "In fact, they pressed the accelerator and took the process forward. It arrived in September without the mandatory assessment commission, which was part of seven members of the Industry Council each representative of the Environmental, Territorial Policy and Rural Policy Advisers. I had to demand his constitution." I continue: "While, in parallel, a board of directors worked, which with the support of an external consultant was actually responsible for the selection of projects." I continue: "In the final stage of the process, last quarter of 2008, I had practically taken, at least on two occasions, the decision to stop the Industry Advisor. His performance was unacceptable and of great disloyalty." End of date, Mr. Jorquera. Look at the book, please enter your name...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u37	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u38	...The future is possible, pages 400, 402 and 404. Your Honor, I can't agree more with this account, it's the story we know all the Greeks at that time. That's why, Your Honor, the cancellation of the Bipartite's wind contest was correct, it was proceeding and it was logical. [[Murmurs.]] You'll understand that with these records a responsible government had to do what...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u39	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u40	...it's what he did, and what he's backed up by twenty judgements from the courts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u42	...including one of the Supreme Court: cancel the Bipartite wind competition. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u44	Mr. Feijóo, for you Galicia will be the most important, but the reality is that they will leave our country as a rag of pussy. Look, you're an expert in denying the evidence. Do you know how many jobs there were in Galicia linked to the wind sector? About 5,600. Do you know how many are there now? About a thousand. More than 82% have been lost, Mr. Feijóo. I don't know if you know that judgments are not measured by weight. It is enough for a ruling to unlawfully declare its Government's tender to be illegal from the moment the sentence is firm. And it's enough for the Supreme to ratify that it was illegal to cancel the previous contest for that annulment to be illegal. I know you like dating a lot. Look, I'll quote what the Supreme says, what justice says, Mr. Feijóo. You said you cancelled that contest under the excuse of "averting the consolidation of a supposed illegal situation that didn't exist." End of date, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] You know what the High Court says, since you like dates, Mr. Feijóo, do you know what the High Court says? That "the acting of the Board was arbitrary, contrary to equal treatment and contrary to the right," Mr. Feijóo. End of date. And that's why he's forcing Galician Union to go back to zero in the valuation of bids. [[Applause]] Your frivolities are very expensive to us, Mr. Feijóo. We accused him in this chamber on an occasion to act as a broker instead of as president of the Galician Union. We did it when you traveled to Mexico to negotiate the sale of Barriers to Pemex at a bargain price. Maybe he was already testing on that occasion to leave politics to move on to private business. Look, now the Mexican press includes Barreras on the list of non-productive assets Pemex plans to sell to reduce debt. What a great deal you've done for our country! As with the wind sector, you have not only caused the ruin of the sector, but now you will have to assume the payment of millions of compensation and compensation for the loss of profits. But instead of admitting your failure, Mr. Feijóo, as you always prefer to deny the evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u45	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u46	Your Honor, do you say here that the current Galician auction is cancelled? The Galician Union's wind competition is not cancelled, there is no firm judgment to cancel the current competition. Mr. Jorquera, we cannot solemnly say that an wind competition is cancelled when it is not. There are twenty-one sentences, seventeen in favour of the Galician Council and three of them are in trial and none is firm, Your Honor. What if there are firm judgments that cancel out of the three contests that Bipartite two made: cancelled the contest of singular wind parks, 100 megawatts; cancelled the wind farm, 565 megawatts. What are you talking about, Mr. Jorquera? The contests you've made are definitely cancelled by the courts and the contest you're running there's no firm judgment that has cancelled the Galician Board's invitation to tender. I ask you to respect the Council of Galicia and to respect you for the truth, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Your Honor, what we did during this time, where, like you and I know, the premiums fell when you wanted to work with wind, all the Spaniards and Greeks were paying the windmills, and now there's no premiums; now we don't spend money on subsidizing the energies of the electricity companies, those of which you claim. Your Honor, what we did was we helped contests and megawatts, yes, 60% more than you. We have about 759 megawatts. Yes, Your Honor. I understand this is a problem with the windmill, but you have to have the background and you have to study them. About 759 megawatts, 60% more than its government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What we've done, Your Honor, is ask these companies for EUR 137 million from the wind canon, which you've been asking for zero. About 137 million taxes are paying wind companies in Galicia. That's why you were very happy and with us they don't resort, Your Honor. That is the big difference between defending Galician interests and simply giving to certain megawatt companies. [[Applause]] Your Honor, do you honestly believe that 1 billion euros already invested in industrial plans, 1 billion, and 2,000 jobs created is low balance despite zero premiums? Your Honor, tomorrow at the Board of Trustees, we're going to approve two new wind farms, two: in the Bath and in the Pastory; new, 36 megawatts; investment, 50 million euros, but no bonuses, lordship, no subsidies. I mean, what you want to invest in is the yellow wind you invest in and pay for the wind cannon. They didn't pay anything with you, and even above them they subsidized them! Look, I tell you with all due respect, Mr. Jorquera, what I did in the cancellation, in addition to committing myself to the Greeks in the electoral program, was what the previous president wanted to do and they didn't let him. But he had the gallarity to tell the Greeks and really tell us what was going on in his government, and I believe that he dignified it as a person and as president of the Government of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u48	That's why, Your Honor, I did what I had to do. I'm very sorry to have you make this paperboard. Who are you defending, Your Honor, what are BNG's interests in the wind competition?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u49	End, end, please, Mr. President. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u50	Your Honor, was it good for Galicia to cancel? Yes. And I'm telling you, it was very good for the BNG. One of the best favors a government could do to BNG was cancel the BNG wind competition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of the Left Galician Alternative, on the balance of the current government project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u52	Question by Mr Antón Sánchez García, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galician Left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u53	Good morning, Mr. Feijó. You have asked to withdraw a comment from Mr. Méndez Romeo expressing objective and verifiable data which reflected a reality. If that's the case, and it seemed very serious to him, what's serious is reality. And I ask you if you're going to withdraw the comments you've made defending Mr. Baltar's indecent behavior, I embrace you. Answer me, because there's a question you won't answer me and I'm sure I'll ask her later. By the way, you cancelled the Bipartite contest because they took it in the 2009 program; in the 2009 program they also carried the transfer of the Ence from the River Pontevedra, Mr. Feijóo. The question I know you won't answer me is, how many megawatts of your wind contest are installed today in 2016, Mr. Feijóo? I'm sure he won't answer. You with your decisions and only your decisions have put the wind competition and the wind sector in a dead-end call. The final judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which orders that the proceedings be brought back to the evaluation stages, is the final point for a tender that was already dead. The model of the contest, Mr. Feijóo, was already dead and is dead, but you didn't build another alternative and viable model. In the exacerbated defense of the electric oligopolie, you stopped one of the sectors where in times of crisis you could be creating jobs and wealth in this country. What will you do in this regard, Mr Feijóo?, will you assume political responsibilities? The epic process of presenting and withdrawing the Aquaculture Law and this sentence that definitely ends its wind competition are two more examples of a history full of failures, of a failed Government that has not been able to bring forward any strategic project to equip the Greeks and the Greeks in the future. Mr. Feijó, you're not what we need. We needed a model of political-administrative rational organization, suitable and adapted for this country, and what you gave us was Oza-Cesuras and Cerdedo-Cotobade, one by legislation. We needed a serious industrial project for the transformation of milk, and you gave us the dairy scam. We needed another energy model, which is viable for most, democratic, decentralized, and you give us the paralysis of renewables. We needed the people formed in this country, and you expelled them. We've been promised a Greek box, and we've got a Venezuelan bank, and it's paid at the balance price. We need to have exemplary representatives, clean and democratic, and you give us Pokémon, Pikachu, Zeta operation, and give us Baltar and Baltar embraces above all. Failure after failure. And as you think of your personal future, Mr. Feijóo, the country still has no solutions. You find yourself in the middle and middle of a rotating door, blocking it with your foot as you decide your future. And while you're standing on that rotating door, what's stalling is the country's future. Mr. Feijóo, your government doesn't give any more of itself. The important decision now is not the new stage of Mr. Feijóo, it is the new stage for Galicia. Mr. Feijóo, call for elections; this country needs the future and you are unable to give it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u55	And I repeat, how many megawatts have settled out of their wind competition, Mr. Feijóo? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u56	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u57	Mr. President. Your Honor, that of convening elections you were already saying when you were presiding over the age table when we started legislation in 2012. [[Laughter]] You will understand that if you had listened to half of what I was told, this would be quite different from a consolidated democracy, a stable Parliament and a Government that has the majority in the House. As you began the legislation being nine and now there are six, speaking of failure, ladies and gentlemen, it is very curious. But, finally, it is stability that provides us with the multimarca populist AGE, Anova and Podemos; that is the stability that gives us. [[Applause]] There you are, Your Honor. Because in Galicia we like a brand that always bears Galicia's name. Between Podemos, AGE and Anova no one takes the name Galicia; now what he commands is no Greek, it's Mr. Pablo Iglesias. Not here, for now, the People's Party takes care of its own, the Government is ordered and ruling. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, speaking of political failure on the part of their formation or former formation, or you don't know what it is, at last, gentlemen, you're still in confluence. Look, Your Honor, we had a commitment, which was to reduce unemployment. That was the commitment of the democratic president of this government. Galicia's main problem was unemployment, he said at the investment session, and I also added that we understood that in 2015 we could start asking for favorable data. At the end of 2015 we have 19,000 more busy, data from EPA; we have 19,300 more affiliates, data from Social Security, and we have 23,500 fewer unemployed, data from INEM. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, all the indicators believe that today in Galicia we are creating jobs and there are more social security affiliations. I know, Your Honor, that you are concerned about specific matters. We do something more than detect the problems and, of course, we do much more than make signs. Because the government is going to solve problems, not to make banners, gentlemen. And that's why in fishing we can say that today we're fishing more and we're entering more by fishing, both in bass and in the fence. And that's why in milk, Your Honor, today in Galicia there are companies that want to invest in the dairy sector and propose offers of 150 million euros to invest in milk processing. That's why, Your Honor, when we arrived at the Government there were difficulties in PSA Peugeot-Citroën. I know that for you, PSA-Peugeot is something of a multinational invasion; I know that you don't want PSA Peugeot-Citroën to be extended. Look, Your Honor, two million vans and agreements from all trade unions except one. Look, Your Honor, when we arrived at the Government, the ship's grades were empty, today there are 1,800 million euros in orders from the naval sector. Your Honor, what is clear is that we are working for Galicia. We're not interested in more questions, and we're better prepared than when we get here. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that for you it is much more important to have a smart tweeter than a strict budget. But, finally, we don't live on slogans, banners or twitters. Look, Your Honor, failure is those who don't know what they want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u59	...for Galicia: self-determination yes, self-determination no, self-determination we'll see; finally, what Pablo Iglesias says. Your Honor, this is not what Pablo Iglesias says, here is what the people of Galicia say. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u61	If we agree, Mr. Feijóo, what matters is that the people of Galicia say it, and they have to say it and they're going to say it and you're already saying it. Because you're worried about the surface of the matter, the multi-brands, we're talking about Podemos. Obviously, you do not want to answer what you are asked: how many megawatts have been installed from your wind competition, Mr. Feijóo?, how many megawatts have been installed in this country in the last two years, Mr. Feijóo? Answer it, Mr. Feijóo, don't run away from the branches. Strict assumptions? For if yours are strict budgets, may God come and see him! Accounting devices in such a case. His cynicism has no limits. You speak of the dairy sector, Mr Feijóo; you have the courage to come here to speak of the dairy sector, Mr Feijóo. What have you done for the dairy sector?, what industrial project have you proposed for the dairy sector in this country, Mr Feijóo?, where are those companies that come to invest in this country?, where have you been for these seven years, Mr Feijóo? The German gangsters charge the lowest price of the entire Spanish state for the last two and a half years, Mr. Feijóo. Does it have anything to do with you, Mr. Feijóo? You're talking about fishing. You may also be happy about the management of fishing in the last seven years. Finally, Mr. Feijóo, as you have not been able to answer any of the questions that have been raised to you, we must conclude that it is true that you have no plan for the future for this country. And you ask what our model is. And what is yours, Mr Feijóo?, the model of Rita Barberá?, the model of the illegal financing of the People's Party, the model of the imputation of the People's Party for illegal financing, Mr Feijóo? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your model is Mr. Baltar's model in the House of Ourense, Mr. Feijóo, president of a House of Ourense that has destroyed the productive economy of that province...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u63	...for years, Mr. Feijóo? You did not reduce unemployment, Mr Feijóo. Since your governor destroyed 130,000 jobs in this country, Mr. Feijóo – IGE data, 130,000 less busy than when you arrived. That's data. Obviously, you've told me about Pablo Iglesias, about Podemos, about things that have little to do with Galicia. We want to talk about Galicia, Mr. Feijóo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u64	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Quiet, please. Closure roll, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u65	Your Honor, you say you don't drop unemployment in Galicia. Sure, you don't care what I say, do you, if we're used to it? Look, the growth of the Greek economy, which we'd like it to be bigger, but it's the highest since 2008. And we have less unemployment recorded than there was in 2015 in 2014, in 2013, in 2012, in 2011 and in 2010. Compare February every one of those years and you'll see that what I'm saying is exactly the same. And we have more social security affiliations than it was in 2015, 2014 and 2013. I know you don't care. It doesn't matter, Your Honor, because you don't come here to make politics, you come here to do something else: just a whole amendment to what all the Greeks have done in the last thirty-seven years. You come here simply to destabilize institutions, but that's your business, even the democratic systems that we have given ourselves with the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Self-Government. That's why, Your Honor, I just want to hear the things I hear at some control sessions. O Allah! I thought I could change the multi-brand spokesman AGE-Anova-We can. I see you're on that line. By the way, Your Honor, to make wind farms the first thing you have to do is have evacuation lines, and the first time we have evacuation lines is now. Neither the Bipartite nor anyone got from the Spanish Electric Network lines of evacuation to take out the Greek wind energy. So, Your Honor, the parks can now be made because there are lines of evacuation for the Greek wind. Now yes, now yes, Your Honor, now yes. [[Applause]] But, Your Honor, you speak – you have no cancellations – says our budgets are not rigorous. Man, I don't know how many Town Councils of Anova, AGE and We can have budgets. I think you got your group's favorable votes yesterday, and no one else voted in favour. It doesn't seem very strict, even Mr. Sánchez, who came to Galicia... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u66	Quiet, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u67	...trying that you vote in Madrid and that Mr. Pablo Iglesias doesn't leave with yours, he gets the Socialist Party to vote in favour. Yes, the Socialist Party does not agree with its formation but abstained. This Bible figure of Pilate has been known to her for over 2,000 years, ladies and gentlemen. [[Laughter]] But with all due respect, I think we rule better than you by land, by sea and by air, Your Honor. We ruled better than you by air, no doubt, because in the Rocks there was a sound, often commented, and now it's forming an aeronautic park, the largest that was done in Spain. Look, Your Honor, we rule over the earth because when we arrived at the PSA Government Peugeot had difficulties and now Vigo's plant has possibilities no longer to do... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u68	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u69	...two million new vehicles, but keep working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u70	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u71	...and to continue to create wealth. And we also rule better than you by sea. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because when we arrived there was no ship in a grade and now there's 1,800 million euros to make ships. And ten years after Astano had done nothing, they're now finally doing marine wind structures. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u72	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u73	Mr. Fajardo, we rule better than you by land, by sea and by air. Yes, Your Honor. Look, Your Honor, I will not deny the crisis...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u74	Finish it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u75	...and I won't forget that the Welsh physicists are unemployed. Now I tell you something with absolute cordiality: there's only something worse than the economic crisis, and one day you were ruling in Galicia. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u76	Thank you. We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, which is that of non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the development by the Galician Council of a plan of women's employment and a plan of co-responsibility, as well as the measures to be demanded by the Central Government to promote the integration of women into the labour market in conditions of equality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u77	Quiet, please! Please, a little silence. If it comes out, it'll be quiet. [[Strong murmurers.]] I'm saying silence, if not, I won't give you the floor until there's a certain order in the House so that I can speak to Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u78	Mrs. Adam, you can proceed now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u79	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot welcome the Government to endorse this initiative on equality, after the 8th of March, and also a debate in the House, in the control session of the President, on equality. I wanted to start with a little reflection about March 8, because it always happens in recent years, but maybe this year with greater insistence, right? I would like to remind you that March 8 is a date of demand, a date that is more than a hundred years old, that arises from women linked to socialism, communism, activism, that at its moment they actually sought to transform the labour sphere into a very clear area of exploitation of women, which remains. And today we find ourselves in what we can call a kind of date banalization. You got up on 8 March, you got an app with bouquets of flowers where you're congratulated by your wife, and the happy clothing stores because you're a woman, the happy TV ads because you're a woman. It's not a celebration of our anatomy or our biology, nor even, as mentioned earlier, of the cultural formation of being women, but it's a date for the claim of the inequalities that continue to live, that continue to structure our society. I wanted to say this from this rostrum, because this year the truth is that even on many institutional ads you almost had to turn off the radio and say, but what happens! It's not a problem that we need a day to feel... Look, look, look, we're women! No, no, we're very proud to be women, and what we claim on March 8 is that all women have the same working rights, of conciliation, of politicians, of sexual, of reproductive rights, that men have, that the world is actually built in masculine. This year we bring the debate to the House on something that is not new, but rather on the debate about the working situation of women, and on the situation of conciliation of women and men in Galicia. The first situation I think is very well known, because the data that unions make public on March 8 are very, very clarifying. Three fundamental issues: the lower rate of women's activity than men's, the higher unemployment rate of women than men's, and the pay gap. These three points remain unchanged over the years. This lower rate of activity, as much as Mr. Feijóo wants to hang up medals today, remains one of the biggest problems they have. But if we analyze female employment, even with a lower rate of activity, how is that activity? Well, I bring some data that I think are important. Since 2009, 53,000 full-time women's jobs have been lost and 15,000 part-time jobs have increased. Consequence: women's employment is precarious. That's the reality. Women have an increasingly precarious job, an increasingly part-time job, at the same time as they keep maintaining, as well as data so show, all care tasks almost alone. 93% of care tasks are performed by women. It was said earlier by Mr. Méndez Romeo that when a man dedicates 1 hour of his time to the work of care, the woman is devoting 4 hours of her time. This is more or less an analysis of the uses of times, which, if we add it day by day, month by month, year by year, we understand that professional careers, or vital careers, are necessarily divergent, because time is finished, and 24 hours a day is 24 hours. It is true that they are also crossed by indexes – as previously mentioned – of activities, some, which concentrate greater social recognition and others, which concentrate less social recognition. It's seen in the formative cycles, where we've been given the data, but we can also see it in the professional careers of degree, postgraduate and master. We're still seeing that phenomenon of scissors, where the professors are about 20%, while the student who starts college is about a couple, 50% and 50%, and sometimes even higher in females. And they'll tell me: Well, they're the universities that come from old times. And in new universities, like the University of Vigo or the University of Coruña, with a model of professors and professors, we can also say that recent ones, they keep exactly the same percentages. I mean, it's not only a problem with the level of aging that universities have, but there's invariably an asymmetric distribution on the subject of gender. That is why, given this situation, and listening to Mr Feijóo, man!, that the German Government in the last seven years had been thrown into equality, frankly it is absolutely impossible. Research law: no reference to the Greek women, no reference, although amendments had been tabled and they had not been assumed. It was approved that the second German Women's and Science Program should be held. We don't know him, we don't know what the Women's and Science Unit is doing, we don't know what it's doing so that research women have that pulse they need so they don't have a curriculum gap when they have, for example, that they have a motherhood, we don't know anything about it. Entrepreneurship law: no amendment was taken with regard to introducing a perspective of gender, transversality and equality, none. We include here that in the Galicia Unit Start if you introduce that perspective. The other day, we were given the data by Igape's own director, and he was talking about that, of the 2,200 projects of that unit, 400 were female projects, and we asked him if they were different, if they had a greater difficulty to access funding, if they were actually different projects, because training, as we've already talked about, is a different formation. Of course, there is no data, because there is no specific unit within Galicia. And we think that's a shame, because, in addition, it collects the law itself that should be. And finally, we're with the Social Economy Act, and more of it, not a gender perspective on something as feminized as social economy and cooperatives. So, gender perspective? Zero. I work for equality? Frankly, ritual, ritual in the sense I used to say, that March 8 is banalized as a date, nothing more. It has been said that not even the People's Party was able to draw up this German women's employment plan which obliges the Equal Labour Law, which obliges the Equal Labour Law, and which was one of the promises of Feijóo's investment in 2009. Since then we don't know anything about that female employment plan, which should increase the rates of activity, which should correct female unemployment, and which should, above all, say something about the wage gap, which I want to remember is one of the highest in the Spanish state, the highest in Europe and which means that women later, when they are older, have the lowest pensions, therefore, of the Spanish state and the lowest in Europe. That's the reality of the Greek women. I recognize that the institutional campaign is to say that the Greek women are a lousy. Well, I'm a loser with difficulties, because they have difficulty accessing employment, difficulties reconciling their working and family life, and many difficulties when they're older to survive with their poor pensions, and with an increasingly laminated system of dependence and increasingly in the hands of the private sector. That's why this initiative is divided into two parts, one devoted to the employment and development of the Law on equal work for women in Greece, drawing up this necessary women's employment plan, and one second on the scope of the co-responsibility of conciliation, with duties for the Greek Government, referring to the creation of squares of children's schools. We can override the data that Mr. President gave us today when he speaks of 33% not of public squares, not of public squares, but of squares supported by public funds, where a very important part he's computing are those that are given through the different cheques that are put into operation, but not in the creation of these squares. Here, too, on this initiative, we have claimed all the necessary spaces, from the dining rooms, from the ludotecs, from the creation of resources, which were also included in the Law of Equal Work and which have not developed, to the co-responsibility. But we also point out the need for the State Government to amend the Maternity and Paternity Permits Act. It is true that we refer here to maternity leave. A few days ago, parents claimed their legitimate right – and thus begins co-responsibility – to take over the care tasks and to have a similar parental leave or equivalent to maternity leave. All this is assumed in this initiative as necessary, because, if we really want equality, two are the basic pillars, not just the effort of women: that equal work and equality in care tasks in conciliation, in co-responsibility. I think the proper term here would be co-responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u80	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u81	It's easy on March 8 to make thanks to the work of women, which we also assumed, because an important part of what we are in this House is to visualize the work that women have done. But the most important thing is to think about how in the future we can regain that effective equality in the workplace. That's why I want to finish this initiative with one of the phrases I like most, of a Latin American feminist activist, who says, "Yes, we have a lot left to do, but, ladies, with our feet on the floor and our eyes on the stars." Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the defence of the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u83	Thank you, President. November 2015, Nuñez Feijóo: "Faltar isn't even charged. It won't shake my hand when making a decision if there's some kind of legal action." January 2016: imputed by rocket and influence traffic. February 2016: Baltar accused of sexual harassment. Not only is March 5th not over, but Núñez Feijóo and some of the Members of this House support him at the People's Party Congress. I wonder if he shakes or doesn't shakes the hand of Mr. Alberto Núñez Feijóo and if, as I said this morning, he's so wrapped up in equality. We obviously know that no, and that's how important it is for the president to equality and that we have our own women, women who bear all kinds of discrimination and inequality, also of which it is directed by the political measures taken by governments, including the wage divide that Mrs. Adam was talking about. We have a 22% wage gap in Galicia, which in the case of women over 65 years of age, as those studies of trade union organizations indicate, reaches 45%, and 23% in the case of girls under 25 years of age. And despite knowing it, despite knowing how it affects getting less from future pensions and the actual purchasing capacity of women, nothing is done at all. There is not a single measure on the table to reduce that wage gap, and it therefore seems to us to be appropriate that, as the initiative proposes, possible measures should be studied quickly. We have to deploy them now, because, of course, the payroll won't be solved in two telejournals, and it's therefore essential to start implementing measures. You can't sign any collective agreement but you can see wage differences between women and men for the same positions. We have a certain discrepancy with the employment orientation, and that is why we are proposing this amendment. We believe that it is quite focused on entrepreneurship, that it is one of the things that government also uses, and that for us it is the new denomination that is given to self-employed workers. It is also quite focused on business initiatives and business leadership and less on other aspects of working life; that is, focused on directives, innovation and entrepreneurship. However, in order to reach agreement, we are going to support the initiative as well, and we are proposing this amendment to include social economy initiatives in particular, because we are currently discussing the Social Economy Act and we also know that women are most of the components of Galician cooperatives; we therefore call for them to be included in points 1.1 and 2.2. We also propose a wording in point 1.4, concerning aid to self-government, the Emega Plan, which also evaluates the result of the measures. Because it happens on many occasions that "enterprise" initiatives – among others – are autonomous or cooperatives and that then, after a year, after two years or after three years, there is no assessment of continuity. So to find out the usefulness of those measures and those aids, we also need to evaluate them. That includes research, not only innovation, but also cooperation. Whether the objective is not only purely competitive or liberal economy, but also another type of economy. (e) that innovation is not only, of course, the objective again, but also quality employment. Because we were talking about the fact that we have on the table the precariousness of work that we women suffer relative to the length of the days, relative to the rights of the days. Therefore, in order to support business initiatives, it would also be essential to provide quality employment. As regards co-responsibility, we have also defended it in this House, and we ask that in point 5.2, which speaks of the children's schools in the industrial polygons – which we agree with – if we also include these children's schools for the public administration centres, giving priority to the larger schools. We have Fairend centers, we have health centers, we have Justice Centers, and today there are very few that have some kind of childhood school. With regard to maternity, paternity, adoption and breastfeeding permits, we call for a point to be included which calls for these permits to be covered in the Administration, because we saw the 5th day in Commission as it is not being done, and the People's Party voted against them. We also ask that these maternal casualties spread to paternal casualties, that they be intransferable and that they have the same duration, in order to promote that co-responsibility. And I'm done. We understand that equality must be a priority task of this Government, and it seems to be, because of the importance that it is being given not only in the control session, but in these benches, and in the case that it is made to the allegations of sexual harassment, which is not being done. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u85	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, President. Thank you very much. In the 1960s and 1970s, on March 8th, the women shouted in the streets, "We want jobs, work we already have." It was the working woman's day. It was a claim by feminists in the 1960s, but it is a claim that today continues to be in force, because if things have changed it was not to improve, rather the contrary, despite what Mr. Feijóo said. I'm a 64-year-old woman and I have experience to talk about this. I know things go backwards. The claim that we want jobs, work we already have, at this time requires very important nuances. We want jobs on equal terms; we want decent jobs; we want jobs on rights. Women's employment, accompanied by measures and resources for conciliation and co-responsibility. This GNP which we are debating calls on the Galician Parliament to urge the Government of Madrid to take on and carry out a wide range of proposals that would make it more accessible to the labour market, as well as to the business market, on the part of women. An equal incorporation of conditions; an equal incorporation of training; an equal incorporation of wage pay, just like men. And the BNG proposal comes up with practical measures to improve reconciliation and co-responsibility. Measures which, on the other hand, would favour the birth and quality of life of women and families. Finally, a benefit for the whole of Galician society in general. This GNP will count on the affirmative vote by the Joint Group. They say poverty, gentlemen, has a woman's face. And the data provided by the class unions – Workers' Commissions, UXT and also the IGC – on March 8, 2016, Women's Day, they find that the socio-work situation of the women in Wales continues to be a precarious situation; occupational segregation; unemployment; wage cracks with respect to men; persistence of the glass roof; unbearable gender violence. And I don't want to talk about Mr. Baltar anymore, I'm tired of Mr. Baltar!, what I want is to lose sight of him. Do something, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party! Deficit in reconciliation and co-responsibility, gaps in pensions and social protection, all of these factors that show the insufficiency and ineffectiveness of the policies of equality and combating poverty that you are practicing. Also, according to the class unions, the data of 2015 say that the time contracts in Galicia reached 92.6%, while the indefinite and full-time ones only assumed 4.62%. Of the increasing number of unemployed, 125,517 are women, which means 53.8% of the unemployment rate. The women's activity rate is 48.7%, and the employment rate is 39%. This data represents a gap between 10 and 9 points, respectively, in relation to men. In addition, the difference between the average annual wages of women and men, according to the last survey of social structure, was EUR 5,264.34; the average female wage was 76.6% of the male. And also the increase in the number of women with part-time jobs in total female employment goes from 21.1% in 2001 to 23.1 in 2015; three more points after the People's Party's Labour Reform. The measures that this initiative develops and proposes are just, feasible, assumed by any democratic government that has among its objectives equal opportunities for all. So I hope...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u87	...to be accepted at least by the women of this House. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u88	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Yes, indeed, Mrs. Adam, inequality between men and women is very evident in the world of prostitution, but also in the world of work. Machism takes place in women's work, and that so lamentable wage rift is the clearest exponent, but of course, it's not the only one. In addition to Machism, in that task of perpetuating the differences between men and women, it counts with allies, yes; it counts on the policies and budgets that make certain conservative governments, which undoubtedly help to maintain in time that domination exercised by man over woman also at work. And allies like the governments of the People's Party, who despite what Mr. Feijóo told us today – always so accurate in all his data and so credible, so reliable – the truth is that his policies and budgets are descended on the path that others had made. And to prove that Mr. Feijóo did not say the truth, once again, in this House, I will remind you that it was him, when he arrived in the Government, which paralyzed the Law of Equal Work; that it came upon Feijó when he disappeared – as you reminded us – the Women's Employment Plan and also the Women's Programme because it was itself; a program that sought to increase the presence of women in the masculinized professions. All these measures taken by Mr. Feijóo show that you either don't care or don't find out, and perhaps you don't know, that the labor gap continues to increase day by day and that you are already in Galicia by 23%. Perhaps Mr. Feijóo doesn't know or doesn't care that 3 out of every 4 part-time contracts here in Galicia are women. And perhaps Mr. Feijóo doesn't know that, by violating the Equality Law, the PP is also biasing the subsistence allowance. I ask, ladies and gentlemen, how can subsistence be biased? I don't know if women want to survive, but little. Mr. Feijóo also does not know or agrees that more than 94,000 women in Galicia cover less than 160 euros a month; that more than 162,000 women in Galicia do not reach the minimum wage; that, indeed – it has been said here – 120,000 women in Galicia are unemployed; and that in addition to those unemployed women, 43% have more than two years in that situation, and therefore do not receive any benefit. Perhaps Mr. Feijóo doesn't know or agrees, he thinks well, the situation of women in the Italian countryside, where only 5% of them retire with full pension. In other words, 95% of the women in our rural area – which is 80% of our territory – are not even paying proper attention to Social Security, although they are the ones who spend the most time working on agricultural and livestock farms. But what the People's Party's benches should smile most is the labor situation of the victims of gender-based violence since the arrival of Mr. Feijóo. At the time of the Bipartisan Government, and in order to comply with the collection in the 2007 Autonomous Law – which you are sure to know very well, Mrs. Adam – against gender violence in the field of work, the cooperation programmes were used; programmes that provided full-time work for women victims for twelve months, a program that could be accessed throughout the year. That is not what I say, but that all of this can be read in the additional fourth provision of the Order of December 29, 2008, for the promotion of employment through the collaborative programmes, Orders, gentlemen, which had a budget allocation of 60 million. Well, let's look at what Mr Feijó did for equality and compare that order with the same order for the promotion of employment that Junta published for this year, for the year 2016, where it is only EUR 1.30.000 –60 before, now 1 million – where a 30-day application deadline is marked...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u90	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u91	...–Friendly, President, but this seems to me important – from December 31st to January 31st, so the victims of violence who are not on those dates cannot access. In addition, the duration of the contract is reduced to three months, if it is full-time, and six if it is part-time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that Machism has a good ally in the People's Party, and for all these reasons we are going to support the initiative presented today by the BNG Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Oubina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Good morning to the people who accompany us from the rostrum. First of all, to say that I share the punctualization made by Mrs. Adam in relation to March 8 as a claim, not as a day of celebration. You do, Mrs. Adam, in your extensive non-law proposition, refer to the data that collects various studies on the situation of women of work vulnerability, difficulties in reconciling or cracking wages, among others, that we share, as could not be otherwise. It is true that women have much more difficulty in accessing equal employment in terms of conditions than men. That problem, of course, is not new. These difficulties also occurred in previous times and with other governments, and the economic crisis undoubtedly exacerbates this situation. The best equality policy, ladies and gentlemen, is undoubtedly job creation, and that's what this government is working on. If we look at the 2015 data, Galicia closed with an increase in the number of busy women, according to the EPA data; and with a higher increase also the full day. But it is also true that there is no equality without co-responsibility. Reconciliation is not a problem for women. Men and women must be supportive and responsible. To promote measures of women's entrepreneurship, reconciliation and co-responsibility, which all these studies point to as one of the main problems faced by women in accessing employment on equal terms, are those in which the Galician Union is working to combat this imbalance and reduce the wage gap. Measures as economic aid for men to reduce the working day for the care of children. The good reconciliation for women who don't have a place in the Joina's childhood school and have to go to a private childhood school. The care bonus in the countryside, where there's no school for children that they can take to their children. Or small houses, intended for the care or personalized care of children in the homes of accredited caregivers. We can also talk about 96% of squares in children's schools or more than 22% in school lunches since 2009. As well as the joint action with the business associations to finance by the Galician Union the construction of those schools, in industrial polygons, which were demanded here. Or else, like not, more public squares in residences, day centers and disability. And we can't ignore the measure launched by the Galician Telework Board and Time Flexibility, which favors reconciliations of more than 8,000 public employees. And we can also talk, since we've talked about pensions, an additional 5% supplement, 10% or 15% to improve women's retirement pensions by the number of children. As for female entrepreneurship, which is the second part of the initiative, highlight the Emega Plan, which since 2009 has enabled more than 500 jobs to be created for entrepreneurs and that this year, above all, will dominate projects in rural areas, as well as research or technology projects carried out by women, promoting this support that you ask the new entrepreneurs through the Galicia-Emprene Unit. To remember that all employment policies in Galicia already have a positive discrimination in favour of women. The confirmation also in this sense referred to by Mrs Acuña, of the confirmation made by President Feijó on 8 March, that the Board will approve this year, for the first time, a work programme for women victims of gender violence. I'm done because I'm running out of time. To say that we are not going to support this initiative. Why are we not going to support this initiative? First, because the Galician Union has just activated Agenda 20 for Employment, which among its measures is the implementation of the Employment Plan on equal terms, with particular attention to those groups with greater difficulty in accessing a job and, above all, to improve the working conditions of women. And although we undoubtedly share a lot of the things that the Board is already doing, we believe it is more prudent to wait until the new Employment Plan is in place on an equal footing. So, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Group author of the non-law proposal. Give a voice to Mrs. Pontón's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u95	Frankly, I haven't just understood, after your five-minute argument, that you say you don't support this initiative because you're already doing Agenda 20 for employment and that conciliation measures also share them and they're going to put them into effect. Then we approve of this initiative! We have the acquiescence of the rest of the parliamentary groups, which we thank them for, and we will come to a text with Mrs Solla, without any doubt. And since you share that it is not a date for celebration, but for claim, we approve this initiative, which has two fundamental questions. One, how to improve female employment, because I don't share that the best equality policy is job creation. The best equality policy will be the creation of women's and quality jobs. That is, which is the best equality policy in the field of work alone, because you will agree with me that we have all equality policy in different areas without developing. Besides, you say they've done a lot of programs. I want to remind you of something. We're at the end of the legislation, and in the next legislate the Government that is going to find out that there's no Galician Equality Service. You've eliminated a body created by law, and while you're going to maintain an agency of investigation. By law? Is he there? Is it created? It's there and it's created. The Igape is there and is created by law. But the Government which between will not have any bodies, and will depend on the political will which will be the situation of equality policies in the next organizational chart of the Galician Union. That's in your duty, to have eliminated by law a body of equality and to leave it to the dawn or ideology or to the grievance that a government has to give status to equality policies. I, of course, think that's the biggest debt of the seven years of Feijóo's politics. While creating research agencies, while maintaining the Igape, while creating, for example, Galicia-Emprene Unit, he disassembled the Galician Equality Service. I don't mean that you couldn't improve, incorporate it into the General Secretariat of Equality, thinking of its rank in the organization chart of the Union... but I think that still today, 2016, in view of the data that we are talking about the working situation of women and that we are not even able to approve this initiative that is not excessively – I believe – of maximums, but that it is at a minimum degree of which are the needs in the workplace and in the field of conciliation, if we are still not the ones of this, how is it possible that there is not in the Government of Greece, by law, a body of equality? It's still necessary and it doesn't exist. I'm sorry, Mrs Oubina, but there's no such thing as an equality agency by law. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's an error you made in this legislation. Not only eliminating R & D offices, not only eliminating programs, as Mrs Acuña says, but essentially eliminating a service – with the name we want to call it, it could be an agency, with which we want – an autonomous body that did not depend on a government's will to legislate on equality policies and develop equality policies. Whenever you want, we discuss that subject, but I think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u97	...before this 8th March, it is the biggest debt they have to assess Mr. Feijóo's policies. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galaga de Lefta, at the initiative of D. Xosé Manuel Beiras Torrado and Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the granting of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, de Vigo, as well as the financial assistance provided to the concessionary company
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u99	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u100	Mr. Beiras has the floor for the defense of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u101	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been listening for a long time in this House to listen with insistence and repetition to various spokesmen from the Party and the People's Group, and from the Government of Galicia, references to the negative inheritances received from the two-party Government, which seems to have ruled for thirty years until they arrived. This initiative aims to resolve that those who come behind do not receive the terrifying inheritance of the absolutely amazing kambalache – but not in the Portuguese sense, but in the Greek –, the engineer, the way in which the new Vigo hospital was taken forward, which bears the name of Álvaro Cunqueiro for misfortune of the memory of the writer Álvaro Cunqueiro. Looks like they're doing it on purpose. The most terrifying inheritance is marked in a report by the 2012 Board of Auditors, which points out that it is absolutely committed to the financial viability of the entire Sergas for the future, with more than 1,300 million payment commitments by the year two thousand thirty and so many. I mean, inheritance for all those who come back until 2034. That son-in-law, how do you explain it? I'll try to get a summary of the process. On the one hand, the adulteration of the project according to the violation of legality, both in the Spanish state and in the European Union. And finally, the misappropriation of funding. I call it a misunderstanding with awareness of what the word means, because it was intentional and constitutes a misappropriation of funds. That is, the trick, the gambic, of resorting to a formula for, it seems, saving funds to the public administration and charging financing to private capital, and it turns out that private capital has together contributed figures that do not amount to 70 million euros in capital and contributions from partners in loans to the dealership itself. And if we add reinforced appropriations, as much as it could be a commitment not to funds, but to commodities, another hundred and a billion euros more. While, in fact, the Galician Union has committed itself – as I say – to 1,400 million euros over 20 years. The project is born with the two-party government, with a model of collaboration between public administrations and a contract of public work for work with funding from public funds. It's a perfectly consistent model with the conception of health as a public service. The Framework Agreement of the Union, the Sergas and the Council of Vigo in 2006, in March; the sectoral project in February 2009, and the Economic and Financial Plan, also in February 2009, which entrusts the Public Investment Society of Galicia with the project to be carried out. The elections in which Mr. Núñez's PP Government is accessed are over, and then there is a replacement of that model by the use of private capital – fiction, as we will see – and a public works concession contract instead of, simply, of collaboration between public entities and therefore a public labor contract for the execution of the project but to be heritage, property, to be part of the Public Administration and hence Sergas. The first is the adulteration of the Bipartite project, because the framework agreement or the sectoral project is not cancelled or replaced. The only thing that is done is to replace the full, preceptive feasibility study, which required an external report under Article 112.1 of Law 30/2007, of public administration contracts, which was, of course, already in force at that time, by a simple study of economic viability... abbreviated, let us say, collected in Article 112.6 of the same law. Obviously, if you read that article, you realize perfectly that point 6 sets that possibility for cases where the size of the project is small, very simple, etc., and that the amount of investment is also, indeed, very small; absolutely the opposite of what this huge project was. So, first law fraud. Second. There is a demand for particular administrative clauses, as well as technical prescriptions, for the award of the new Vigo hospital. And there is also the ad manum prayer, we would say, or ad woman, to the image and similarity of what suits friends, who, of course, will be those who compete in the contest for the adjudication of the concession of the work, that is to say, of the business. So what you do is you use the question as if it were a roadblock – for example Rande’s – with a toll in the shade, which is the cannon at the age of twenty. This is the way Mr. Núñez's Administration understands the public health service for the citizens of Greece. But there are also mutations in the new hospital project. First, in the model of financing and public management, which is aberrant. Secondly, in the legal model, which passes – as I say – of collaboration between public administrations and public works contracts only for execution, for concession. And thirdly, brute reductions in the original project made by the Galician Board itself in the proposed project with regard to the original project which it assumed in principle; but also other ones made by the concessionary unilaterally, without anyone saying absolutely anything, except certain bodies of opinion and, of course, the citizen platforms, which are the ones that are engaged in a fight in defense of what should defend the governments that say they are for the citizens. But why is that done? Well, it's done for a very simple reason that I don't have time to explain. The key is that in the early months of 2010 it is known that Mr. Zapatero's last government is preparing a royal decree to increase the conditions for the fulfilment of financial stability, etc., to be approved in May, and the Junta has to do is approve everything in a hurry to circumvent it. I don't have time, but it's reported in a very brief manner in the explanatory statement and it's really a race of efficiency of the Board Administration to pass it from one department to another on the same day; on the same day a project comes in, read it, ditamine it and approve it. And Mrs. Elena Muñoz – a specialist, by the way, in these things – doing so, so that it could be approved, simply to circumvent something that would require conditions that would make the method chosen by Mr. Feijóo's own Government impossible to carry forward his intentions. Then, in addition, there's a gross failure in the execution deadlines. The deadline was 31 months since the re-enactment, which was in June 2011, and ended up being 46 months, because the reception of the work was in April 2015, so year and half more than two years and peak that were planned at the beginning. That's enough reason for it to be completely annulled. Failure. Vigilant legality says so. In the financing, financial crisis of several of the partners of the concessionary society, among them, for example, Works, Ways and Asphalts, which comes into competition with creditors in 2013; and Concession, which is a financial company dependent on savings banks, which at that time enter into crisis and break through black holes, etc. And so the Galician Union, which wanted to save money, has to act as a financial fireman for the companies of the concessionary company, including managing the credit of the European Investment Bank. The European Investment Bank – if an access to the website perfectly discovers who appears as an adjudicator or the protagonist of the project – is not the concessionary entity, it is not any intermediate financial entity, as is usual, but it is the Joint Committee of Galicia. You have to explain it, because, if what you really did was to endorse that, it obviously violates European legality as to what is prescribed and considers State aid illegal to private companies. All of this with the breaches of the law on the contract for the granting of public works, both of Law 30/2007 and of European Union legislation, various directives and jurisprudence itself; of illegal State aid; of the budgetary discipline imposed on the Stability Pact, which was stolen, transferring to future commitments apparently from current costs, which is a contractual debt which had to be reflected as an accumulated debt; the European System of Accounts legislation of 2013, and the rules on projects financed by the European Investment Bank. Since there's no time to say all this, because if I'm done, I want to go to the end. At the end of the year, who took the risks of economic protection? Then the Union. And there is no need to go definitely to the report of the E+Y audit – we call it the acronym – which studies the accounts of the year 2014, where it is clearly said that the assumption of risks, at least the risk of demand, but the risk of supply, must be for the concessionaire, because, if it is not for the concessionaire, it obviously violates the rules on public administration concession contracts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u103	I'll finish, Mr. President. But it is also established that, when the risk is assumed by the concessionaire, the assets involved in that risk must be represented as intangible assets. On the other hand, if the risk is not assumed by the concessionaire, they may be included as financial assets. In the 2014 balance sheet, it appears as a financial asset only due to the value of the hospital. So, in fact, that proves that the entire risk was assumed by the Board and, therefore, that a key rule of the works contract was violated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u104	Finish, please, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u105	...and in the end, it was not intended to download the public administration from the financing. Before that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u106	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u107	...I'll explain what we propose, Mr. President, because it seems to me that the timer is fine for the Olympic tests, but here we are in a parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u108	But you all know him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u109	Yeah, you know him, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u110	It's submitted in writing and it's already been a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u111	Well, this indicates that you can go to a price or that you can propose to the partners of the concessionary company to pay them what they actually contributed and recover it by a figure of 70 million euros, or, at the top, with a value of one hundred million euros and a peak of one million euros; but you have, not disbursed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u113	...that saves a thousand and four hundred and I peak millions of euros to pay in twenty years, which it puts at risk, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u114	Thank you, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u115	...the Sergas' own sustainability. It's a political decision. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u116	Thank you, Mr. Beiras, your time is up. Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that the Socialist Group, irrespective of the decision on the amendment to the Alternative Glaga de Left, will support this initiative. In fact, this topic covers a perfect metaphor of what the government and Mr Feijó's strategic and tactical objectives are for the use of the Presidency of Galicia for its personal benefit, and I'm not necessarily talking about material issues. The advantage of talking Wednesday morning is that you always have new inputs to develop. Today I was surprised to see your interest in the literary genre of memory of left-wing politicians. I, of course, recommend some, from Golda Meir to Willy Brandt or Manuel Azaña, of much higher literary quality, which I think would enrich much more, without any doubt, their political acquis, which is, on the other hand, quite scarce in my opinion. He also told us about the lines for the evacuation of electricity in Galicia. It means you know very little about economic history. You don't have to, you're not on the law degree curriculum. Since 1959 this community has exported electricity, and, except for evacuation lines, no other alternatives have occurred to this humble deputy. It's more, in the wind competition, one of the fundamental issues for the parks to come forward and, therefore, to approve was that the evacuation of the energy produced was guaranteed; something on the other hand, quite reasonable. I'm perfectly on the subject. I'm on the question of a person who uses the Chair of the Board to cultivate exactly his image of apparently good accountant and his way out to the public sector. If someone bothers you, it's in any case a personal matter for everyone. We're actually talking, Mr. Beiras, about a ballast. We're talking about a ball. I've been listening here since 2011, talking about the case of the Palma hospital, in theory licit and adjudicated by the Government presided over by Socialist Antioch. It's a shame it's the People's Party now that you have to explain why Mr. Villar Mir, former cabinet partner in the Preconstitutional Government of Mr. Fraga Iribarne, financed the reform of the headquarters of Genoa Street, just to see if he would fall......to see if he would fall... yes, yes, I know that they're upset, but look... [...]. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[(By order of the President, and in the light of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this word is withdrawn.)]] See if he'd come down to build this hospital...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u118	No, not that word. No one here or he needs it. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u119	I didn't say no one needed it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u120	No, no, no. Not that word. [[Murmurs.]] I'll make it hard on you. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u121	Well, you can't say. Anyway, let's call it what we call it, the truth is that Mr. Villar Mir, hoping that the construction of Son Spases hospital would fall......has completed the headquarters of Genoa Street. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u122	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u123	I would appreciate it, Mr. President, that apart from semantic sensitivity...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u124	I've asked for silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u125	...had acoustic sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u126	I've asked for silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u127	In fact, the left-wing governments in Spain are beginning to explore and open the way, indeed, that you pose here, as in the case of Valencia, the Valencian Country, in which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u128	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u129	I understand you're upset at this moment that you're talking about Valencia, but you were going to talk about health and the government of Ximo Puig. If you want, we're talking about the 500-euro banknotes put in the houses of the PP political leaders, with or without psychoanalysis. If you want, we'll talk about it. [[Applause]] I – I insist – was going to talk about how the Valencian Government is going to rescue Denia's hospital, from DKV, a practice that is already seen that the People's Party in Valencia had perfectly fattened. Mr Beiras, in fact, made a frank tour of the matter. I would like, as I am a Member of the province of Pontevedra and reside in Vigo, to speak about some issues that have puzzled me. The current candidate, the current spokesperson, of the People's Party at Vigo City Hall, actually the former councillor of Fairy and the first speaker of the Board – the truth is that I am very proud that I was licensed in Economics by the university in which I teach – was who on the same day, on May 5, 2010 – I don't know when the file entered or the report in the General Intervention – to justify a model change in funding from a public project of 374 million euros to 1,423 million euros. Eight hours at most! [[Applause]] I insist, I do not doubt the ability of the intervening lady. It is true that if you have been rewarded properly, then you were advisor to Fairy and now candidate to the Mayor of Vigo – it is true that with little success, you had only 7 concellers, you went down from 13 to 7–...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u130	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u131	I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u132	I'm already in it. But this happens in all groups, so it's understandable... silence. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet. Silence on both sides.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u133	And not only that, but also, after making that express assessment, which is absolutely embarrassing in terms of defending the public interests of this autonomous community, is going out in the press – when the opposition says that the hospital can be rescued – to deny the data and clearly defend the Actiona Corporation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u135	...that's, in the background, what they're defending. On the one hand, hiding the real fact that there is a public deficit so that Mr. Feijóo appears as a good manager, and, of course, with the absolutely regrettable complicity of those who claim to live in Vigo, playing with the health of the viguess and the viguess. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u137	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u138	Please! Please be quiet. They don't talk from the stage on either side. If they want to talk, talk outside. Silence! We're going to have a good debate. Go ahead, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u139	We have a good debate. I want to begin my intervention by congratulating the AGE on his excellent analysis of the whole event around Vigo's new hospital. A rigorous exposition of the facts, from its conception as a public hospital to its conversion into a private hospital deprived of essential services, with high job insecurity and the privatization of non-health services. A detailed statement on the legality violated in the proceedings of the Board in relation to the administrative concession formula and the procurement rules laid down by the European Investment Bank. There's little left to say after reading the exhibition part of this non-law proposal. I could repeat every reason given in your speech by Mr. Beiras, but I would not contribute anything to the debate. What remains to be demonstrated is that the Junta de Núñez Feijóo acted against the interests of the population of the Vigo health area, condemning the city of Galicia's most populous to depend on a private hospital like Póvisa, a private hospital with public health personnel such as Álvaro Cunqueiro and a public hospital that has no investments like the Mexoeiro. In the funding model chosen by the Board for the new Vigo hospital is the source of the problems. It is a public-private system, with another costume, but similar to that of Esperanza Aguirre in Madrid. Vigo can become the model for the rest of Galicia, which is why the health council approved motions against the cuts in the health privatization model of the new hospital, asking for equal access to all citizenship. Because today Vigo's hospital is not accessible to all citizens. There are a lot of people in the healthcare area who have their health care in the Cunqueiro Alvaro and who have real difficulties, especially dependent people. It's a scandal what's going on in Vigo's health area. It's the total abandonment of dependence, it's the total abandonment of people who don't live in the center of Vigo. And in the meantime, Vigo's health area is suffering from an unprecedented care precaution: lack of professionals; increased surgical waiting lists; delayed and cancelled surgeries; patients who are removed from the operating door or outpatient and return to the plant without being able to be cared for; alarms that call for the release of the hospital at night without happening; radiological tests that are not done or cancelled. A real hospital disaster! The only public hospital in Vigo, the Mexoeiro, abandoned. On the other day there was a concentration to surround the public hospital of the Mexoeiro, a hospital that smolders, a hospital that's going to be practically out of activity because there's going to be hierarchy, internal medicine... i.e. all clinical hospitalization; that doesn't give great headlines; that's not found anywhere; that's the one that's suffering in silence thousands of people. But of course, many of them are elders, many of them are HIV, many of them are dependent, and these staff don't give a reputation, they don't qualify for hospital. The important thing is plastic surgery, non-invasive surgeries, technologies, but those diseases that don't have that social impact are neglected. We therefore believe that Vigo's citizenship and its entire health area made it very clear on September 3rd in a demonstration in Vigo its refusal to this model, claiming a real public hospital, that the Cunqueriro Alvaro is public. That all groups of the opposition to the Board of Auditors should be monitored, as they say at the initiative. Vigo needs a public hospital, claims a public hospital. That macro-hospital was already crazy; it's impossible to work in that macro-hospital. Workers and workers complain that they have to make miles; they are unable to meet the urgent demands of patients because everything is far away. Lack of material is evident. It's a real scandal about working conditions: absolute precarious work; they privatized services that weren't sanitary because – Mr. Tellado, please, I'm finishing, I'm running out of time –...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u140	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u141	...I only listen to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u142	Quiet, please. Finish it, Mrs. Martínez. [[Interruptions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u143	In particular, if they did something, what they did was to condemn the city of Vigo to a private hospital with little personnel, with privatized personnel, with companies that hyper-exploit them, although it seems that the People's Party does not care at all, it is much more pensive than it is said in the opposition than the problems of the hospital of Vigo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u144	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u145	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, congratulations on the great business they've done. You've just sentenced Galician, with this hospital, to a debt you didn't deserve. But I hope that the judges will eventually pay for this indecency that they have just committed to Vigo's health care.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u147	Good morning. Once again, the construction of Vigo's hospital is the subject of debate in this Parliament; a hospital that responds to the process of privatizing public health in which the People's Party is committed, in which Núñez Feijóo and PP are committed. It therefore responds to this determined act of speeding up public health to foreign companies, venture capital companies, investment funds, multinationals. As a result, the Greek Government, the Greeks and the Greeks, we are losing influence and decision-making ability on public health. The People's Party is firmly promoting the parasiticization of public health by private companies. And the People's Party in the Government of the Union is moving the management of public health and bursting into surrendering to private companies. BNG has fought, fought and will combat this political strategy, and the new Vigo hospital is a very clear example of this strategy. This star proposal of the People's Party, which means timeless deadlines, deals with friendly companies, public funds fraud, the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks, to favor the business of friends and friends. The position of the Galego Nationalist Block is well known: from the very first moment we have manifested our radical opposition to this privatization model. A model where adjudicate companies obtain enormous benefits without risk; a model where adjudicate companies do not take any of these risks; there is no sharing of risks between adjudicate companies and the Administration, the only one at risk is the Administration itself. We, the BNG, say high and clear that it is necessary to curb this health reform of the People's Party and bet on a public health model, universally, equitable, without pay, without compensation, financed by a fair tax system, where it pays the most money it has. And, of course, we defend and present multiple initiatives to reverse all privatizations and recover them for public health. Within this reversal it is essential to recover the new hospital in Vigo. It is necessary to rescue the new Vigo hospital from the private company's gadooupas and to become the public hospital that must always have been; the reference hospital for the Vigo health area that must always have been. The request for the ransom of Vigo's new hospital is a cry among the neighbors and neighbors of Vigo's health area, it's a cry among the professionals of Vigo's health area. If we had a government in the Greek Government that had been at the service of the interests of the neighbours and neighbours, I would have already asked this question, but, far from that, we have a government which is precisely what it pays to deliver public resources to these private companies. The People's Party turned what was to be a public work into a private work. He made a model change that meant turning Vigo's new hospital into a private hospital. And it is a private hospital – as has already been said here – because it is in the balance and accounting of concessionary society. It's not on Sergas' balance sheet, it's on the balance sheet of the concessionary company, society and concessionary company that leases it to Sergas through a canon for 20 years. I mean, we pay it with public money; the woman for twenty years is the private company, and Sergas pays a canon, a lease, because there she lends herself, theoretically, public health for at least a moment, we'll see for how long. Contrary to what he does with the Povisa hospital, where Sergas does it is to pay him assistance for the public health insurance. This initiative that we are discussing today presents a possible route for that ransom. BNG said here on several occasions that the decision that Vigo's hospital was private was a political decision, and what needs to be made is another political decision to turn it back into a public hospital. A political decision to turn him into a private one must be taken back and make a political decision to turn him into a public hospital. Mechanisms exist to do so. The German Government has already had an opportunity to do so because of the company's multiple failures in the entire bidding and construction process, but it didn't want the People's Party to use those instruments. On the contrary, it has made it easier for the private company to move forward with this project, with which, political decision to make it private, political decision to convert it again into public. I insist, this itinerary that is presented to us today is one of them. What we say in the Galego Nationalist Block is that we make the political decision to reverse it and then look for the least expensive mechanism to bring it back to public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Golden.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u149	Thank you, President. Good morning to all. This is not the first or the third occasion in which we are discussing an initiative of this kind. The last, recently, was the debate a month and a half ago, on AGE's own initiative, and the position of the People's Parliamentary Group has not changed, remains the same: that of defending the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro as the most modern hospital and with better supplies from throughout Galicia, which comes to solve a historic problem in the health area of Vigo. The great novelty of this initiative with regard to the previous one is two things. First, the length of the pattern exposure, which is 18 sheets, which is something extraordinary. And second, a price; the price that AGE considers it must pay the board to the dealership of a hospital that cost its construction 600 million euros. An interesting mathematical wig, but without any kind of credibility. So much so, in your own explanatory statement, you call it an absolutely public money-saving formula. Then we're right, paying 69 million euros for something that costs 600 is a saving formula. The same would even pay more, pay 30, 20 or 10 million, why not, considering that these prices would have the same credibility as the figure you propose. You know, like us, that this hypothetical operation that defends so deeply would cause a serious deterioration in the public accounts that even now the Union cannot afford. In addition, there are questions that do not make clear the validity of their argument. Although I don't have time to beat the 18 sheets in these five minutes, I'd like to say that covering the alleged illegality of the concession in a directive adopted in 2014, given that the contract was signed in 2010, is an absolute barbarity. As you will know, even if they are not jurists, the legality of a contract marks the current legislation. At the time of its formalization, as you know, in 2010 there was no such directive. So, without getting into the directive itself, the simple fact... please, Mr. Beers, don't insult or interrupt. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Respect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u150	Then you have a replica shift. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u151	Mr. Beers, really, even if I doubt your proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u152	Quiet, don't interrupt who's using the word. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u153	Mr. Beers, even if I doubt your proposal, it doesn't mean I don't respect you or your political group. I don't consider him anti-virgin, as many other people think, well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u154	Hey, please! I'm sorry. Sorry, Mr. Beers, I'll call you in order. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Hey, please! Sorry, sorry! Mr. Beers, I call you by order, there are no fools. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] There are no fools here, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u155	This constant insult and disrespect I don't know if it's your new policy, but it is intolerable for me that this House is systematically insulting this parliamentary group for defending its ideas. You can't, Mr. Beers, you really can't! [[Applause]] It's a terrible lack of respect. It's intolerable, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u156	Silence, Mr. Beers! Mr. Beers, sit down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u157	I'd tell him...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u158	No, no, no, Mr. Beers, you're not in the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u159	Mr. Beiras, I told you that I respect you, your group and your proposal, the difference between what others do, what they call anti-virgins. For me there are no anti-viets here, for me here there are political positions that harm Vigo. And his political position hurts Vigo a lot. That's the reality. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now that you seem to be entering a competition to see who's the greatest enemy in the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, I don't know who's winning. Better said, if I know who's winning, they're winning the vicars, because none of the attacks that made the opposition against this hospital have reached the right port, and so far it's still open.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u160	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u161	You are fighting – because you are constantly making initiatives in this direction – to see who is more vehemently against this hospital, but the reality is that despite the fact that this initiative has a record of the events of ten years, the reality is that they ignore elements that are very important to take into account. For example, you forget that this construction formula had the "ok" of Zapatero's government, for example. For example, you forget that Mr. Cayetano, who today is conceler in Vigo and who was then manager of Sergas...... excuse me, Mr. Losada, Mr. Cayetano had among his possibilities this formula as one of them to do the hospital [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u162	I'm not in the debate, quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u163	Besides, Mr. Beiras, you also omit yourself and your group, in its formulation, that there were 2,000 million euros of unpaid bills when you arrived what you call "Government Núñez", which is really the Government of Galicia. And he also omitted that supposed Public Investment Society that was... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u164	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u165	...to build the hospital, that supposed society had zero euros when it arrived, many models, but zero euros. So there's one thing I really share with you that clearly comes to our point: that this is a big hospital complex, that you say in the explanatory statement. Besides, even Mrs. Martínez calls it "macro-hospital," which I thank her for. You know why? Because for a long time in this House you spoke of a small, small hospital. And he even got to say by the socialist health spokesman that he was a hospital made of Chinese material, which leaves much to be desired. In any case, it is also true, Mr. Beiras, that this hospital is done with speed and diligence, because that is another thing that accuses the Galician Union of doing this hospital with speed and diligence. And it's done because it's an urgent thing and it's an important thing. [[Murmurs.]] What would happen to the public health service in the Great Vigo if some AGE ticks had reached the right port?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u166	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u167	What would happen and what would be the consequences? Who would suffer them? Then the beams. True, it is true that during that time there were incidences, problems, and many mistakes were made. Even if it's true, mistakes have been made, errors that have been solved with the passage of time. All except one, which is the absolute sense of opposition positioning, which is contrary to this hospital from the beginning to the present day.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u168	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u169	Real estate since minute number one. I ask you, Mr. President, the same generosity that you had with Mr. Beiras to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u170	That's it. It's about that.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u171	Faced with the immobility of the opposition in this hospital, today we can say that there are new functional units, such as the Ictus Unit, the Orthodox Unit, the Sleep Unit. We're working on three more: the Psychogeriatrics Unit, the Generic Hospitalization Unit and the Youth Child, the Pluripathological Unit. And there are also new reference units, such as the Mother's Milk Bank, such as the Pudendo Nervio Pathology Unit, which is even of reference at the state level. I conclude, gentlemen of the Tide, or AGE, or whatever. Repaciten, they think this hospital is already a reality. His conspiracy theory comes to an end. They add to the defense of public health with facts and not with screams...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u172	Thank you, Mr. Dorado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u173	...and perfecting it, improving it. That's what citizens claim. Today...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u174	Thank you, Mr. Dorado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u175	...may be a good point of reflection. Please recapitulate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u176	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. Group author of the proposal to be positioned on the amendments. Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u177	Yes, Mr. President, you see what things are like. I come here with a secure proposal, which proposes to negotiate with the concessionaire, instead of the proposal mostly assumed by the Public Health Defense Platform itself, which is to go to price. And I do it precisely by political sense, by saving a process that can last months and which can end up ditminating in judgment, of course, the recovery by fraud committed, therefore a guilty resolution – which is called technically so – and saving something that can be much more expensive than simply acquiring, what?, society. Buying society, not hospital. Because concessionary society is an anonymous society. And what's worth an anonymous society? According to the balance sheet, the asset less the taxable amount. It's elementary. And if you take the asset and the liability, what's left is about 70 million. If you don't know that, and if Mrs. Muñoz doesn't seem to know it either, she was an incompetent person when she was, of course, in counseling. And of course, that's why he did the boobs he did. Because I could do them right. You have to be able to cheat, too, and not from assholes. They don't want to. You want war. Well, they have it, they have it in Vigo. And Vigo's enemies aren't us or the tide, or "as it is called." I'm the one who calls me, I don't care. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Abel Lopez, I accept, of course, your amendment of addition – Abel Losada –. I accept your amendment of addition because, of course, it complements. On the other hand, it seems to me that the first one – to modify and add that plugin – is not, because the least expensive is what I think it is, and is documented with balance sheets audited by the audit of the company itself. In these conditions, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I can only recommend that they continue. His defeat is inexorable, with No Borders, No Messiahess, who do not need in this country. For citizenship, she's sick of you. It's an inexorable defeat, they know, and that's why they're tied up there. And why? They imperish their fascination with the satraps that swindle the entire citizenship of the Spanish state, those corrupt, those corrupt, all of them. They're rotten, it's a rotten game from down to up. That's what they do to the citizens who voted for them, and that's why they're going to take a beating. And we'll throw them all out of the country. As Fole would say, "Killing won't kill you – we don't intend to... –
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u178	Finish. Thank you, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u179	...but I'll get you out of Spain", which was Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u180	Thank you, Mr. Beers. We moved on to the next non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u181	Hey! Hey, hey, hey! I'll call you in order, Mr. Beers. [[Strong murmurers.]] [[Mr. Beiras Torrado continues next to Mr. Tellado Filgueira's chair.]] Sir Beers! By Article 108 you are expelled, Mr. Beiras. Sir Beers! Ejected! I'm suspending the full. Mr. Beiras has been expelled. The session is suspended while Mr. Beiras Torrado leaves the room and resumes next.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u182	The suspension is 15 days and then you'll see the corresponding table... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, the plenary has already resumed it. I had suspended him from leaving Mr. Beiras full. Now I resume the full. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia in connection with the consideration of Álvaro Cunqueiro as a franchisor writer reflected in the report requested by the Madrid Council to a group of experts from the Complutense University for the possible withdrawal of his name from the municipal farm
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u183	The following amendments were tabled to this non-law proposal: an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and another amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u184	Mr Baamonde has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth is, Mr President, Mr Beiras has to be excused in a way. If Emperor Augustus said: "If I have interpreted the comedy of life well, applaud," it seems that Mr. Biras also needs to be applauded for the permanent comedy he tries to represent in this Parliament. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't come to this gallery today to make Álvaro Cunqueiro's haxiography, and I'd even say I didn't even defend him. I don't do it, first of all, because this intellectual, magisterial fabulous, capable of taking wine cups at the Tabernacles with the souls of Purgatory, who taught us all that the knights of the Round Table are transmuted into mosquitoes in the lagoon of Antela, or that Merlin had settled in the lands of Miranda, was a man of such a large, complex, so extraordinary work that, as some author said, just as it happened to the Esmelle jungle with his Merlin, it would probably be better to paint it than to explain it. Because to explain it, you might need a whole dictionary and maybe you wouldn't make it yet. I'm not here to defend him because he doesn't need it. Cunqueiro is a great culture of Galicia and Spain. I use the words of Professor Alonso Montero on the mission addressed to the mayor of Madrid, where he reminded her that Cunqueiro was one of the greatest writers in Europe of his time, honouring the Greek letters and the Hispanic letters. But if I go up to this rostrum to try to give reason to intolerance, to ask about Cunqueiro, the culture of Galicia and Galicia. I do so logically, following the initiative launched by the Council of Madrid in application of the historical memory, which can lead to the elimination of the name of Cunqueiro and other people from the municipal street under the unjustifiable and unjust accusation of being franchisors and, apparently, in view of a report published by a so-called "Cathedre of Historical Memory". Don't worry, Mr. Ron, I'm not coming in to appreciate the work of this Memory Chair because our initiative is trying to be positive rather than confrontational. But in any case I remember that the articulist of El País Antonio Elorza, on August 3, 2015, had already warned about the sectarianism of this mentioned Chair. It's true that the fact is not consumed, probably by pressure from public opinion, probably because its detractors ended up involved in the magic of Cunqueriro and in the end it's not known whether they're telling an invented truth or a certain lie. The real thing is that the mayor-in-law has already qualified the initiative to go crazy and the chair itself seems to have broken its relationship with the Madrid Council. But in spite of that, the presentation of this initiative is a success, because it is necessary that it cannot be achieved. Because if it is consumed, if we are faced with an act of intolerance, revenge and intolerable cynicism. We'd be facing a situation of blacklists, of ideological censorship which is inappropriate from the current times. We would ultimately be in an act of prevalence of intolerance above reason. That is why we invoke respect for Cunqueiro and respect for Galicia. We do so, firstly, by invoking the Law itself of historical memory in its sense of spirit of reconciliation and consensus, not of confrontation. If it is true that they do not logically deserve honor of any kind those who have participated in the military uprising, or who have participated in the harsh subsequent repression, it is also true and it is evident that this anathema cannot be applied to those who, without a protagonist character, have only lived with frankism. Now pretending to demand heroic behavior from these people is an act of arrogance and intolerable intolerance, when not of total and absolute ignorance, because one cannot extrapolate the time of now at a time as it was at that time, where the disjunctive was dramatic: or to live or be exposed to death, imprisonment or exile. On these grounds, it can be asserted in a round-the-clock manner, as well as in the amendment tabled by the Socialist Party, that the initiative of the Madrid Council is completely groundless, lacks the basis because the Cunquerier cannot be applied to the precepts of the historical memory, particularly article 15 of the law. And it cannot be applied to you on the basis of two fundamental circumstances: firstly, because it is enough to review the Cunqueiro's own biography to see that neither he participated in the survey nor had an active participation or protagonist of any kind in the subsequent repression, but that his coexistence was limited only to the scope of his professional activity; and secondly – and much more important – because the recognition granted to Cunqueiro and many of those included in that possible list of the Memory Chair, that recognition was not granted by his franchise affiliation or much less, quite the contrary, was granted by the immense value of his work. In the case of Cunqueiro there is no doubt about it because it is unanimously recognized by the criticism and by the Greek intellectuality as one of the great Spanish letters and also of Galician letters. He could not otherwise be in a man who successfully cultivated all sorts of activities: narrative, poetry, theatre, essay; articulist and extraordinary journalist, with publications in the most important newspapers of Galicia, among them, the Voice of Galicia or the Lighthouse of Vigo. Masterly fabulator who was able to tell fabricated truths or certain lies, who in the words of Caesar Casal had demonstrated his own word and filled the imagination, who in expression of Louis Ventoso fabulously and wrote in written Greek never read, who was a member of the Royal Galaga Academy, and logically that recognition could not be otherwise. But if anyone is left with any doubt about the extraordinary value of the work of Cunqueiro, there is another objective fact that prevails: public opinion. This public opinion that Voltaire already recognized as a self-conscious social force gave him full recognition, raised him to the category of referent of Galician and Spanish culture and put him in history. Thus the witness – and I will not insist too much on its detail because it is well known – is the great number of streets, squares, places, bearing its name – among them the Vigo hospital –, the large number of literary and all kinds of awards recognised both in Galicia and Spain, the fact that it had been dedicated to the day of the Greek letters, and the same fact that much of Galicia's intellectuality had emerged in its defense when this question was raised, for example, Darío Villanueva, Bieito Ledo, Manuel Bragado, Xosé Luis Ajeitos – to mention some – had claimed that the error of removing the Memory had not been committed, for not speaking of institutions such as the Royal Galega Academy, the Council of Culture, the President of the Galician Union, who had sent you to the mayor of Madrid claiming this dignity and respect for Cuncairo. And, ladies and gentlemen, who is able to concite such unanimity in the recognition of his work, who has such a great impact on the collective consciousness of this land, cannot in any way be shunned as a franchisee. On the contrary, we all claim is the Galeguist role of Cunqueriro in franchiseism, his work in the development of Galician collective consciousness in a difficult time, his extraordinary domination of both the Greek language and the Spanish language. For that reason we ask and request, through the initiative, respect for Álvaro Cunqueiro, respect for Galician culture and, through respect for one of his great thinkers and his culture, respect also for Galician culture; so that the voice of intolerance does not prevail, which, ultimately, is the voice of fanaticism, above the voice of reason. Let me finish, Mr. President, with the words of the Cunqueriro himself, who spoke of everything. For example, he said that "the dove has all the light it needs to fly in Noya and also the air, because he knew that the dove needs to fly both the air and the light, just as the villain needs air, melancholy and moon." The light and the air that he designed Cunqueiro on Galician culture, the light and the air that he designed on Galician society, is what we claim above the night, above the noisy wind of intolerance, that intolerance which in the words of Voltaire was synonymous with the attack on freedom. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u186	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. For the defence of the amendment tabled by the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are songs that have put soundtracks to my adolescence, a stage in which the consciousness of galeguity has made him begin to take steps to take up Greek as my language. One of those songs was Who could have been in love with her, that beautiful new poem of Cantiga, which is called the shoreline, the most representative work of neo-trobadorism in one day, played by Luís Emilio Batallán in the unforgettable album too. Here comes May. I could also talk about the footprint that he left in me, the dreammaker of Merlin and the family, or about how the attendance at a night performance is going like a river helped awaken in me the interest in the Welsh theatre. I'm starting with these memories because, when we talk about Cunqueiro, we talk about a key figure in our literature, a universal size writer. And to appeal to the Law of historical memory to withdraw its name from the land of a city is a real nonsense. I'm not going to evaluate whether Cunqueiro has joined the Falange as a survival costume, as some studies point out. If I want to remember that same person got into the Galician Party and ended up repudiating and being rejected by franchise, and disposed by the frankness of his journalist's office. But the relevant thing is not that, ladies and gentlemen, the relevant thing – if I am allowed redundancy – is that Cunqueiro's historical relevance is not determined by his political positions in a given context, nor is Günter Grass's relevance determined by the fact that he had the courage to acknowledge that he belonged to the SS. He was not a Millan Astray; neither, lords of the People's Party, was a Fraga Iribarne. The historical significance of Cunqueiro is determined by its literary relevance and its contribution to the defense and dissemination of our language and culture. And that's why we think Cunqueiro deserves to be honored, remembered and valued. But yet, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, this initiative is a bad opportunism. First, Mr. Baamonde, because there is no case, or never was, or – if there was – he is totally and absolutely mad. Let me read the news: "The city council refused to be in possession of that listing. Meanwhile, the mayor herself, Manuela Carmena, said that these names will not be taken away because it would be nonsense and - she added - that has neither feet nor heads." I continue to read news from the press, Mr. Baamonde: "The Chair of the Complutensian ensures that in the list of 256 names published people appear not only of universal size but also clearly removed from the atrocities committed by the dictatorship." I continue to read news from the press, Mr Baamonde: "So far the attitude of the executive council has been to work without going to deny all and each of the barbarities attributed to the chair." And I continue to read news about the Chair of Complutensian: "The Chair of the Complutensian reproaches the mayor of Madrid who, without questioning the information on the list of streets to be deleted, download in the Chair the responsibility for the nonsense that such a list contains." Therefore, there is no case, Mr. Baamonde. But besides, and secondly, Mr. Baamonde, it is a bad opportunism from whom comes, from a party so resistant, so resistant to removing from our streets the true symbols of frankism – for that is the attitude they have, lords of the People's Party – and a party, in addition, so inclined to confine our culture to an archaeological museum. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Because there is no case before the rejection of the Madrid Council is why we propose to replace the text of the resolution with the following text: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to request the Galician Council for the preparation of a report on the literary relevance of Álvaro Cunqueiro and his contribution to the defence and dissemination of our language and culture for his transfer to all public institutions in order to honour his memory." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. For the defence of the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Méndez Romeo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, April 1, 1939 ended the Civil War. That day the winners of the war promulgated a band, a band that would be repeated as a mantra until 1975, until the dictator's death, to such an extent that it was learned from memory by students and many others. And that day, on April 1, 1939, the only newspaper that is still published today in Madrid -- a big newspaper, on the other hand -- the ABC newspaper, published that band on its front page. And then there were texts at the top of that date and what some of the most representative feathers of the moment meant, among them, and in a prominent way, Álvaro Cunqueiro. It means, therefore, that Álvaro Cunqueiro was a person of firm convictions with frankism and that for ten years he published enough documents; there is, for example, an anthology of sonnets dedicated to José Antonio and many collaborations in the media of exhalation of frankism. Yes, he was a collaborator writer of frankism, as was Torrente Ballester, a writer also a Welsh writer; as was Camilo José Cela; as was Josep Pla, the glory of the Catalan letters and who worked as an agent at the service of the relieved; and as were in other countries very different personalities, such as Knut Hamsun, Nobel Prize; Louis-Ferdinand Céline, anti-semitic furious; or, under other arts, Richard Wagner, also declared anti-Semitic. But if today, Cunqueiro and all I have just quoted and many more are remembered, it's not because of his attitude or his political convictions but because of his literary work. And we would commit a serious mutilation of the cultural corpus, of the corpus of different arts, if we now judge under the premises of their ideas people, and who, without being directly involved in repression or acts against people, must now be judged under those parameters. That's why in Madrid, Mr Baamonde, you make a serious mistake when you charge a historic commission without sufficient credentials a study. But it's true that the mistake is made by that commission that presents a study to modify the country where it mixes everything: it mixes up personalities of uplifting, personalities of repression, made of weapons and people who worked in cultural institutions or other types during dictatorship. To such an extent, that document is wrong that neither the City Hall of Madrid nor its mayor nor the university have referred it to, and therefore it has been filed. We believe, Mr Baamonde, and have defended him here many times, that in Galicia, as in Spain, we have to move in the same direction as the countries around us. Because all countries that have made dramatic and have divided their societies throughout history have in many cases opted for mechanisms to restore memory, for mechanisms to put value to the fight against oblivion. I speak of Germany, where it is enough to visit any city to see numerous commemorations; I speak of France, which still has terrible episodes like the Velodrome d'Hiver and so many others related to Vichy, or I speak of Argentina, or I speak of South Africa and so many others. In Spain amnesty laws of 76 and 77 were not amnesty laws, they were laws that allowed the re-establishment of coexistence. And very late in 2007, Law 52 was promulgated, as far as possible, symbolic or material situations arising from the civil war conflict and restoration of historical memory. Unfortunately, the majority group of this House did not wish to apply that law in Galicia in any way, despite the fact that there were at least two articles ordering communities and municipalities to cooperate with each other to draw up lists of vestiges and to establish places of memory, as is the case in other countries, which should be preserved. Very little, very symbolic, and it wasn't done. But, ladies and gentlemen, what we are talking about today is to, on the one hand, once again manifest the value of the work of Cunqueiro, which is not questioned by anyone and which is not threatened by anyone, but also, lords, at the same time, to remember that as any civilized and advanced country we must give to future generations a lost vision, but also rigorous, of what is our own history. And that happens before or after the recognition due to the facts, the places and the vestiges, something that even today – I insist – the Council of Galicia did not want to do. We propose an amendment that we believe improves the text and that is enough of these ideas that I have just underlined. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u190	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u191	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. I would like to say that we are leaving this plenary, and I will not take part in the initiative presented by the People's Party. We understand that the attitude of the President of the House to expel Beiras is an antidemocratic attitude because Beiras the only thing he did was denounce the irregularities of Mr Feijóo's government. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be bitten by ourselves, we are the people's voice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u192	Mrs. Fernández...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u193	We have been elected by all people, throughout citizenship, to represent the interests of the people of Greece here in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u194	Mrs. Fernández, as far as I can see you've come to announce that you leave the full, you're not going to intervene on the initiative. Perfect. Thank you very much. So Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u195	Let's see, it's not empty, no, what's left empty are the ideas that you have in your head when you bring this initiative that doesn't make any sense and that answers, as the BNG spokesman said, to a farce, a pantomime that you bring here. [[Applause]] It was a filtration of a medium of communication and you turned into law, in a beautiful case, the subject of bringing here Álvaro Cunqueiro. Poor favor do you by bringing a universal writer, of universal size like Álvaro Cunqueiro, for this initiative. Poor favor they make you. Because it was a farce betrayed by a means of communication to discredit a political option. And that's why you bring her here. And we're not going to take part in a farce in which – moreover, today already said here – the director of the University's Historical Memory Chair of Complutense said that that list on which writers such as Gerardo Diego appeared and also, logically, Álvaro Cunqueriro, because he did not obey his authorship. And the mayor himself said what he said. I mean, it didn't work out. But there were other streets, upstairs Spain, General Millán Astray, etc., other streets that if they respond to that memory that you want to keep intact throughout the Spanish state. So we're not going into an initiative that obeys an interested filtration of a media, because that's politics without ethics. That is what you bring, and this is how politics is being done today in this Parliament, based on filtrations interested in the media, and there we act. Well, we're not gonna do that. And as Benedetti said, he forgot he was full of memory. That's what poet Benedetti said, and it applies perfectly to you, read, if not, Paul's report by Greiff, July 22, 2014, Special Rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and the guarantees of non-repetition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They read that report, and the 20 recommendations it makes to the Spanish State to comply precisely with the truth, with justice, with reparation and with the guarantees of non-repetition. Because you have systematically violated a law that for us was already a child, the Law of historical memory. That's what we need to see. You didn't argue when you saw that in the Royal Academy of History dictionary it was said that Franco wasn't a dictator, they didn't adjourn anything, did they? They didn't bring an initiative in the same sense to rectify. He did the pressure, and he rectified himself, but you were totally in line with Francisco Franco's definition of almost like an angel, like an apostle, because you're pleading to that infamous memory of the winners. We, of course, did not share that beautiful case that you bring about the initiative of Álvaro Cunqueiro. Alvaro Cunqueiro has all the literary qualities and, as the spokesman for the PSdG said, it is not the same as a writer who lives and lives in a Franco-Censored period who has had to do everything possible to draw out that censorship and to impose his ideas despite the scissors of what was ruling this Board of Galicia not long ago, which was Manuel Fraga, who was the author of the Gadoupas, and had to draw it intelligently so that censorship would not mutilate creativity. And another thing is being a writer according to the regime, that's another story. But we're not going to fall for it. You bring this to delight yourself and to ruin a process of change and transformation through a filtration of systemic media, which belong to the system, and which, therefore, is nourished by the system and does not want to give up the legacy that gives them the system. That's why we have a mass communication – unfortunately – canned, directed and sometimes lack of freedom, because logically they're companies, and companies know what they're playing at. Therefore, you change and apply the Law of captive historical memory, annul the judgments that still weigh on the victims and their families, contribute to the public administration's lifting of the bones of the dead in the pits, that the light is made, that the light comes forth so that families can have real reparation and justice. Then, at that point, we may agree that you want something of memory, something of justice, something of repair, about what happened in this country and about what lived and suffered the victims, the families of the defeated, of what you call the defeated, in order to repair your memory. That's what we want and not cardboard paper initiatives that all they do is vamp, vamp what Álvaro Cunqueiro and other writers who worked at the franchise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u196	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u197	That's right, you're cultural vampires and that's why they bring this initiative. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u198	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Baamonde Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u199	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I want to say that I celebrate the tone of the intervention of the speakers of the Socialist Party and the Galego Nationalist Block, who understood the true meaning of this initiative that we present as an act of reason in the face of intolerance. We don't present an initiative to vamp or demonize anything at all. We want the reason to be recognized. For this reason, and I am voting on the amendments tabled, I say that we are actually going to accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in the sense that the first point of our amendment would become the first point in the amendment to the PSOE, the second point would be deleted, and the third point would be maintained. We also offer the Galician Nationalist Block the option of accepting its amendment by incorporating it as an addition to the text of the initiative that would result. Allow me, in my remaining time, to make some considerations. Mr. Joquera, I fully agree that the truly valuable of Cunqueriro is not his past, but his literary work. But you say we bring this initiative for a reason of opportunism because there is no case. Let me tell you that I can't share that criterion. You tell me to read the press, and I ask you to do the same. I have here many publications that refer to the multitude of articles by very different authors: Trapiello, Javier Marías, Dario Villanueva. I refer to the letters of the President of the Royal Gallega Academy, of the President of the Council of Culture, of the President of the Union, addressed to the mayor of Madrid. Logically, if there was nothing at all, it wouldn't make sense that this controversy had been raised, and there's a strong controversy, you know, in public opinion and in the world of culture. Unless, as I told you in my initiative, it turns out that Cunqueriro's magic involves everything and that we're faced with fabricated truths, false lies, and there's nothing at all. But if there is a case, and that is why we are alerting ourselves to the need for intolerance to prevail, above all, of no consideration. We also agree, Mr. Méndez, on your assessment. We did, and so we said, a positive intervention, we didn't try to share mistakes or blame, and we didn't go into consideration whether the mistake was from the mayor of Madrid or whether it was from this House of Memory. What remains of us is the need to overcome that mistake and reach an agreement that will enable us to maintain the dignity of Cunqueiro and Galicia. I am finished with the reference, logically, to Mr. Ron's intervention. Mr. Ron, allow me not to share anything at all, absolutely nothing of what you said. I sum up what I think of a very simple phrase: fanaticism is by reason the same as astrology, stupid children of a wise mother. Who makes fanaticism and intolerance prevail above reason, logically denying common sense. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u200	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia regarding the protection of the unemployed
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u201	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the proposal not of law, Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u202	Good morning to all and to all. Once again this Parliament and the People's Party, in just one hour, has demonstrated its face, the face of intolerance, the dictatorship of the word and how for the People's Party, this majority group of this House, some of us are upset because we say the truth and because we put on the table the shames of an indecent People's Party, indecent in economic terms because it's mocked by corruption, in itself the People's Party seems to be a corrupt organization. But besides, indecent because it continues to defend those things that have led this country to the triumph of fascism over a democracy. That's what the People's Party stands for. And, therefore, today we must strongly denounce that this Parliament loses quality when we pursue those who tell the truth, those who maintain the capacity to be indignant at the policies that we do is to afflict our workers with suffering. And that's why we're taking an initiative today to talk about these more than 115,000 workers in this country who are unemployed and are not getting any benefits. And they don't get benefits, not because there's no capacity, but because you're... you're paying attention to the workers. [[By order of the President, Rodríguez Arias, and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure this is taken away.]] The same amount that they cut into unemployment benefits in the state as a whole is the same amount of the bank ransom, and they know it. And you're an accomplice to this barbarism: EUR 41,346 million cut the People's Party into unemployment benefits, EUR 41,000 million, the same as the banks received. Those to whom you stand for, the culprits of the financial crisis, that guy, that scam, have made today in this country 200,000 unemployed. Instead of defending the unemployed, you took the money from unemployment and used it to save the same people who threw them out of the street. What's that called? Criminal policy in social terms. Since the outrage, we have to say that one cannot continue to blame the victims of the crisis, pursuing them, saying, as yesterday [...] Mr. Tellado said here, that the responsibility of the Government was to give work to those seeking him, as if the unemployed were not looking for work. [[By order of the President, Rodríguez Arias, and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure this is taken away.]] It's a lie what Mr. Tellado said here yesterday. The unemployed are looking for work, but for every offer, there are 200 people looking for that job. What does the People's Party pursue? army of unemployed people who take down labour rights. That's the policy of the People's Party. And, look, this morning Mr. Feijóo once again cheated on citizenship, deceived her. Because you have to tell the truth, you have to count how you split the job. They didn't create jobs, what you did was to cut the jobs that existed and therefore only in Galicia in 2008 were 46.13 million hours a week; in 2015, 35,000 million hours. You know what that means? They reduced the hours working in this country by 20.6%, which is the same as saying that you've kicked out full jobs by 253,000 jobs since they returned to Galicia. You destroy the job, what they do is they share that job to say they generate work and then they count those people who work an hour, they work two, they work one week every fifteen days, like jobs created. So what needs to be denounced is the policies that lead to the poverty of the working class, those policies that are defended and, above all, encouraged by people like you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u203	Mr. Fajardo, you have a call to order and I beg you to withdraw two questions that you have just said here in this gallery, you know perfectly what they are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u204	Can you tell me what they are? Home!...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u205	Can you hear me? They're...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u206	This is different, a call to order in deferred, now you'll tell me why.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u207	If you listen, I can explain. They're "social criminals," and Mr. Tellado, "indecent." You may continue, but you have a call to order, and we remove the offenses, which do not consist of.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u208	When you qualify in political terms that your intervention is indecent and, therefore, a Member is indecent, we are speaking in political terms. With your personal life or with the person I don't interfere with, I'm talking about political positions. Because Mr. Tellado here yesterday said that the goal of the People's Party was to find employment for those seeking employment, leaving over the table what the 200,000 unemployed do is that they don't want to seek employment, which is a fake and criminalization of the victim who cannot consent. Because those 200,000 people who are unemployed, 115,000 of them don't charge a burden, they get up every day to look for work and to feed their children, but you do use the unemployment benefits they paid before to give them to the banking multinationals. That's the reality. Last year they stopped spending 250 million euros on unemployment benefits in this country. What's that called? Being a social criminal, it's a social crime for us; 9 billion euros to save the bank and, on the other hand, there's no money to save our unemployed. We're making political qualifications; if the president is upset with political qualifications, we feel it. But what bothers this president, this Parliament and this majority group is that in this House they tell themselves the truth and they say once and for all that the People's Party is legislating against the social majority, it's attacking the workers of this country and it's allowing those who have large corporations to continue to enslave our working class. If not, as the rotational doors are understood, if not, as it is understood that Mr. Feijóo is thinking of leaving politics to go to Indidex, what a coincidence! In politics there are no coincidences, there are favors that are returned to those who defend large corporations against small and medium-sized enterprises, self-employed and the working class. If you want to, you will also take that away from me, because in this Parliament it seems that you can only say what the President-in-Office or the President-in-Office wants, and we, freely, have come here to denounce reality. And the reality is that in this country, despite the makeup of statistics, where it's said that 51% of the unemployed are not paid, it's fake. It is not 51 per cent of the unemployed who receive no benefit; 7 out of every 10 workers in the country receive no benefit, 7 out of every 10 workers in the country who are unemployed do not receive any benefit. And that's the EPA data, that's the EPA data. Because what you do is you cheat when you say it's 51%, and I'm going to explain why. You count as unemployed people who receive the benefit of those unemployed who are affected by an ERE and therefore charge from your company and part of INEM, with which they add that figure. They also tell part-time workers, who are still charging part of their unemployment, they tell the unemployed and also those unemployed people who have left unemployment, the INEM, the unemployment lists, because they didn't find an alternative there. Maybe they don't count those who've never had a job before. So if we debug those figures, the reality is that, out of every 10 workers in this country who are unemployed, 7 don't get a weight. How does the People's Party qualify? How does that qualify when the People's Party is able to put on the bank rescue table, financial rescues, but does it not rescue families? How can you explain that these workers, because of an economic policy and, above all, a labour reform that has been done to expel them from their businesses, today have to go to the social eaters in many cases? For us this is a mode of economic crime, of economic crime, because what we do is, with the sources of the state, to attack a class, in this case the working class. And today what we say here in this proposal is something as simple as the following. Does it seem reasonable to this country that 7 out of 10 workers doesn't receive a weight? Not to us. And, therefore, we are not asking for any barbarity, we are saying that the level of expenditure that existed before is recovered, that these 250 million euros are recovered last year for unemployment and that they are not intended today; that the budgetary levels that existed before the crisis for job creation are recovered, and that 50% of the annual reduction in employment projects in Galician Union. And that's what we're thinking, concrete policies. For what? To defend whom the worst is happening, to defend the victims of the crisis, let us say that in this case they are absolutely guilty by a People's Party that disregards their interests. And when we talk about jobs, we talk about jobs, we don't talk about mini-employment; when we give the figures, we give the numbers of hours worked and we show what those 200,000 jobs are. Or we're talking about this so cocoaed Plan, by the People's Party, of activation of employment: only 25% of the figures they proposed for recovery. They planted more than 100,000 people who could access, and they barely reached 24,000. So the people's employment policy is a failure, but it's not a failure because they don't know how to do it, it's a failure because it's their goal, and we're going to repeat ourselves in our statement: the People's Party wants these levels of unemployment, because these levels of unemployment mean ease for businesses, meaning that when a worker gets to the door of a factory to ask for work, he has to accept almost any condition, which is what the People's Party wants, and that's what his minister wanted, which is worth a job of 50 euros that doesn't work. You call slavery work, and that is why we hope that you will have a minimum of political dignity today and support this initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u209	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u210	Thank you, President. The process of job destruction, labour reform and the financial crisis are the source, causes, of this social and individual drama that is unemployment. Drama, in addition, which tends to become chronic in our country. It increases the number of Welsh families who have all their members in unemployment, families who don't receive any money at the end of the month, when the receipts of light, rent, mortgage, supermarket come in. It also increases the number of long-term stops and stops: 100,000 Welsh and Welsh have been looking for employment for more than two years, two years, and 133,000, more than one year. A working person with a long and stable career loses his job. In the last decades of the last century this meant spending a little while with a allowance while looking for a new job, which was getting more or less in the short or medium term, but it was getting. But today it's not like that. This worker who has lost his job today is probably indebted and with family burdens, and he is also aware that his new situation is going on for long, or forever. When he finds work, if he finds it, he'll earn much less than before, and under much worse working conditions. And the new salary won't allow him to keep the standard of living he had reached before he was fired. Besides, personal drama, anguish, fear of entering the infernal circle of poverty and exclusion, everyone of them gets into crisis and is suspended in a social limbo without prospects for the future. And this is true: with suicide results in many, many cases, silent suicides, uninvestigated suicides, but many, ladies and gentlemen, many. Defeated families, homeless homes without light, without heating, child malnutrition, social emergency of shipwrecks that must be rescued from the storm from which they were victims of this economic crisis, economic crisis that is imposed on us by the powers; rescue measures for victims, rescue measures for people, for human beings, that the sold, electoralist and publicized economic recovery leaves on the margins, leaves people without a state, leaves people without protection, leaves people turned into numbers: 236,444 Galicians and Greeks unemployed in January 2016, 3,34% more than in December 2015. Galicia is the third autonomous country where the unemployment rate is higher than that of the previous month, only surpassed by Navarre and Cantabria. That is why, and because they are essential, essential, economic and labour policies that prioritize, put at the centre, which prioritize the common good, which prioritize the rescue of the working class, the rescue of citizenship and also the rescue of public services, this Member will vote in favour of the initiative of the Gaga de Left Alternative. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro. For the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u212	We're talking again about unemployment and the work situation in Galicia. Yesterday, during the debate on the motion put forward by the Socialist Party, the People's Party's Party is saying that employment was created, that unemployment was reduced, and today the President of the Union, because he was back on the same issues, which are creating jobs and reducing unemployment. What they didn't explain to each other was what kind of job is being created or how unemployment decreases. I'm going to give you a little reminder of what kind of job you're creating in Galicia. And the job you're creating in Galicia is the job that means job poverty, the job that means that, with the wages of that job, thousands of the Greeks and the Greeks that can't develop a project that is minimally worth living. These are the data that say that in Galicia there are 70,000 people employed with an annual salary of less than 5,000 euros, Mrs. People's Party's Member. What does that mean? Well, a salary of less than 350 euros a month. There are 177,000 men and women in Galicia who have an annual income of 1,900 euros, what does that mean? A salary of 150 euros per month. There are 84,000 workers who earn less than 700 euros a month. And I could keep enumerating them. That's the job you're creating. And how do I reduce unemployment? Well, with very simple questions. First, with emigration, all these thousands, especially young men and girls, who, having no way of developing their life here in Galicia or finding a decent job, leave for emigration. How do I decrease or stop? Well, I saw retirement, and I saw a decrease in the active population in Galicia, with which the active population decreases and unemployment decreases, but it doesn't mean there's more people working, it doesn't mean there's more people working. Look, in 2015 it fell to 32,400 people in the occupied population, there were 19,200 people out of unemployment. What does that mean? 13,200 people who have disappeared, who have not joined the labour market, who have not joined the labour market. I mean, it's not because it's better or because there's more jobs, but because the active population is diminished, but because people are leaving, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. How do I decrease or stop? Turning a job into two or three, turning a job, for example, of 1,500 euros, firing that person and then hiring two or three for the same job by charging less than those two or three people together than only one person charged. Or how do you reduce unemployment? Computing as active and unemployed people who only work a few hours a month, those people who only work one week a month or those who have slavery contracts, like many of the young and young people in our country who have contracts in practice, precariously, and who don't have the right to pay unemployment benefits or retirement benefits, but who don't count as unemployed. That's the way you have to say that unemployment comes down, so, of course, it's all a real lie. They use statistical data to try to make us see a reality that only exists in their propaganda, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. For which, the labor market in Galicia does not improve, as I said before. The combination of people who leave a job for different reasons doesn't mean the increase in active population. The reality is that the degree of de-protection of unemployed people is brutal, because with policies, decisions and labour reforms that have implemented what they have done was the reduction in the contribution benefits to the unemployed, the reduction in care benefits, the reduction in benefits for older than 45 years, the reduction in benefits for older than 52 years – which accounts for family income for people over 55 years of age, with which many are left without that right to receive benefits – the reduction in public service contributions for unemployment, which they earn less and with which they account less for retirement. And which one, what does that mean? Today's poverty and future poverty. With which we are going to support this initiative, which, like others who have introduced the Nationalist Block of Wales, is what you want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u213	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u214	...to emphasize the need for real action and not to be taken by people who are unemployed. That the resources that have to be allocated for unemployment and not, one year after another, there is a budget execution of the really ridiculous Labour Council, or that there is actually less and less money for unemployment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u215	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u216	...because there are fewer people charging unemployment, which means no less unemployed, there are fewer counties, they decrease the counties, but not because there are fewer people needing those benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, you have the floor to Mrs Quintas Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u218	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Well, Mr. Fajardo, I don't know, I think we're going to make the trip for nothing, because it's seen that the German Government doesn't care for anything about the situation that citizens and citizens of Galicia are living. We discussed it yesterday, in every plenary session, we're talking about employment, and this becomes a number of figures where the People's Party draws us a country that doesn't exist – as I said yesterday and I'm still claiming – a country that, when you come here, you're not allowed to enter the bench because you don't want to hear what you're asking them to do and that, when the workers are at the doors of Parliament claiming jobs, even precarious work, you don't even listen to them. Well, the figures are unquestionable. Since Mr. Feijó ruled, for seven years, because the number of people stopped has risen to 65,000. We're not going to stop at the number that's going to increase month by month, because sometimes it's dramatic. Because when a period of vacation comes because unemployment decreases, those contracts for hours in precarious, at last... The beneficiaries of the benefits. Interestingly, unemployment is rising, but since 2009 there have been 10,243 people less than beneficiaries of benefits. And what's already terrible is that the Galician Union has fallen in unemployment benefits more than 24 million euros. That's the situation, employment is becoming a chronic situation in Galicia, not just because of the crisis, but because this government has given up changing the productive structure. This crisis starts with the brick bubble, jobs that disappear, disappear in the industrial sector over 50,000 jobs, and the Galician Union was unable, unable, to make an effort in the productive sector so that all those people who left the working world could be integrated into the working world. Hundreds of thousands of people are without any help or benefit, 7 out of 10. 70%, 140,000, are outside the protection system. What's going on? That we're generating a generation of poor people. I said yesterday – not yesterday, I say, to the International Labour Organization – that there is not only that number of unemployed people, that at this time it affects all their families, that they have no protection systems, but today in Galicia that report says there are poor workers. Well, that's what triggers the policies of the People's Party, or the lack of policies, the absence of effective policies of the People's Party: a weak society, an unequal society, a poor society and a society without a future. And apart from that, we live in a country where pensions are the lowest, we live in an aging country without anyone doing anything about the problem of demography. But is it that for all these people who are standing today and without protection, or all these people who are currently working on precarious contracts, with wages of misery, what will their future be later when they exceed 65 years? So we are going to support this initiative in all its terms, and at last we demand that the Government of Greece, if it is unable to manage, if it is unable to return dignity to this people, the best thing it can do is to leave. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. For the People's Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u220	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to all, ladies and gentlemen. The real face of intolerance and the dictatorship of the word we just saw this morning in the House with Mr. Beiras' totalitarian gesture. Well, we are facing a state-only competition initiative, which is to urge the government of the state. I was surprised, in fact, that the Socialist Group had lost this opportunity to ask the confluences, to the tide, to Podemos, to Mr. Fajardo, to support Mr. Sánchez as President of Government to carry out this initiative, and to that end he could repeat the famous phrase of "we can do it in a week, Mr. Churches – sorry – Mr. Fajardo". [[Applause]] Well, the AGE Group again brings to this plenary an initiative to, through its mantra on the crisis and labour reform, make an obsolete speech in view of all economic and employment data. He speaks in his scam initiative, and the scam is to run the elections against the caste and then he wants to rule with it. The whole country's scam was to deny that the economic crisis existed and did not shorten it as soon as possible to prevent its consequences from being so devastating. The scam was to rule with the policies that have led to unemployment for three and a half million people, the ones that have led to the closure for 200,000 companies – I know companies don't like the left, they don't like it, but they forget it's the ones that generate the jobs – that have led us to fall into the abyss of the rescue. Today the situation is quite different, we have passed, with the left-wing, socialist government, to destroy 1,400 jobs a day to create with the People's Party government 1,500 jobs a day. It's not the same, gentlemen, destroying 1,500 jobs a day that you create them, it's not the same. [[Applause]] Today Spain is reducing unemployment more than ever, and it is doing so more intensely than any other country in the European Union; this past year, one in three people who have left unemployment in the euro area has done so in Spain. In the year 11 we were in recession and today we grew at a rate of 3.2% per annum. In addition, the reforms that have been implemented allow this economic growth to translate into a powerful job creation. Because this work reform is so far from job creation, ladies and gentlemen, and I am not saying it, says the report of the Foundation for Applied Economic Studies presented last Monday. The document concludes that these reforms have had a positive effect on employment, reducing the layoff rate of workers with temporary contracts and reducing duality between timeless and indefinite. The report estimates that 32% of unemployment reduction since 2012 is due to labour reform, and the balance of this reform is that it has increased the probability of getting out of unemployment to an indefinite job, that it has managed to create every year 24,000 new indefinite jobs, that it has avoided the dismissal of 47,000 temporary workers each year, that it has made the unemployed less time on unemployment, which breaks with the myth that contracts are increasingly precarious, that time contracts are more extensive in time and that the probability of finding a job has grown thanks to job reform. This is summed up that those who benefit most from leaving unemployment to indefinite work were Thursdays, the group most affected by unemployment. The report compares the two major crises in Spain in recent decades, the 1990s and the great recession we are recovering from, and notes that, after the fall of the 1990s crisis, GDP growth has taken much longer to generate jobs than at present – one year it took to reduce unemployment after the 1990s crisis – and, after the job reform, unemployment has begun to decline before leaving the recession. I recommend that you read this report and update your speeches, Your Honor. I know it's a dense, complicated, long report, but, if not, they have the newspaper article, which summarizes it quite well... I recommend at least the newspaper article, because its arguments are not supported, and its facts are not, in fact, this Tide of the Crown and its confluences were intended to bring down 25% of the cleaning workers, millionist workers, mostly women, and at the same time they spend 60,000 euros on advisers. [[Murmurs.]] Their speeches are neither supported by reports nor by their practices. Finally, President, remembering that today there are about 500,000 unemployed less than in 2011, that the PP governments will not cease their efforts to generate employment opportunities for all those people who want to work, that social protection is being reinforced more than ever with new programs, such as the Plan Prép and the Plan Activa, and that over the past few years more than EUR 100,000 million has been devoted to unemployment benefits and subsidies in Spain, because we want to get out of the crisis by supporting the most vulnerable, and we don't want anyone to stay behind. What has changed in this country is that when you first created unemployment, you now create jobs every day. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u222	The truth is, I'm going to have to control myself so that I won't be expelled, because this intervention can only be understood from the point of view that those who perform the intervention are believed to be part of those privileged people who will never be affected by the policies they exercise about the working class, or in any case that are part of those privileged people who do not understand what is happening to those 200,000 unemployed in this country. The lack of empathy is not to understand that this policy of the People's Party, especially labour reform, has driven the multitude of workers in this country into unemployment. They just don't understand anything. But I'll give you the number. Don't talk to me about jobs, tell me about how much you work. In 2008, 46.13 million hours each week worked in Galicia; today, 35 million hours worked. You know what that means? 253,000 jobs a full day less. When you talk about creating a job, what you're doing is you're sharing the job that's left or, in any case, what you're doing is that these jobs are getting part-time and people work full-time and not charge it. Illegal! That's what the People's Party stands for. But only this lack of empathy can explain what you're proposing to us. Look, you're complaining about the confluence. There's fear, there's fear in the People's Party; there's so much fear that the first to want to escape the private company is Mr. Feijóo, who now no longer re-thinks to go to the state, he's re-emerged, because he knows that when citizenship comes to the government of this country he's going to unleash all these things that we all know there are, those contracts with the president's brothers' companies, what happens in the House of Ourense, where aptitude tests are done in the hotels of that city... that's what the People's Party wants. The only guarantee to have more ability to find employment in this country is to have the People's Party's money; that's the only guarantee, customerism as a mechanism. But what is absolutely indecent is that you are not able to recognize that there has been a ransom, 48,000 million euros, which have not been dedicated precisely to the workers, but to the bank, the same amount that you have withdrawn from the unemployment benefits since they govern. 48,000 million euros! What would this country's working class do with 48 billion euros in its pockets? Generate economy, generate demand and generate jobs, but you decided otherwise. They decided that this money wouldn't stay here, that it would be for the multinationals, those you allowed to create the crisis, those who are condemning us to affluent days, the wages of misery and being poor workers, poor workers! One in four workers in this country earns less than 600 euros. How long would you last at your home with 600 euros a month? How long would it last? That's why it's very easy to legislate against the working class, because you think it's beyond that reality. And I'd like you all to be in that reality, that you were able to get up every day without jobs and without pay, to see what they were doing. That's the urgency of this country, 116,000 people who have no work and don't charge anything. How do those people survive? What you're doing is sharing misery. So I deeply regret your intervention because it shows that it doesn't matter what happens to the working people in this country, it shows that they are insensitive to suffering; it's more, that they are complicit in the suffering of the workers in this country. And it gives them absolutely the same, they're going to vote that no, they're going to go home without thinking that on that road they're still causing poverty...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u223	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u224	...unequality and that many families don't even have anywhere to sleep because of criminal policies, in terms of society and economics, of the People's Party. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u225	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the action to be taken in relation to the appeal brought before the Supreme Court with regard to the specific supplement, or equivalent concept for the workers, of the two extra wages of the year 2013 of all staff of the central departments of the autonomous administration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u226	No amendments were tabled. For the defense of it, Mrs. White has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u227	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. "To understand the disappointment and despair of the thousands of people who have manifested themselves against the cuts. I don't like this measure, but I'm careful only because the law needs to be enforced. I'm not going to ask the officials for more effort from a remunerative point of view, they've done enough." These are statements by Mr. Feijóo on July 20, 2012, after thousands of people went out to the streets of all the cities of Spain to protest against the Rajoy Government Adjustment Plan; a plan of adjustment with which they cut 65,000 million euros in two years. And the measure that Mr. Feijóo referred to that he did not like, but that he would abide by it because he likes to comply with legality, was the cut in the extra pay of state officials; a flap that would amount to about 7% of the wages that these public employees received. In August, just a day after the president announced the summons or the advance of the autonomous elections, Mr. Feijóo repeated the same sentence again: "I will not ask the officials for more effort from the remunerative point of view, they have done enough." In those same days he again explained again, this time on the National Radio microphones, that he was able to reduce public service budgets without touching the salary of the officials. He said exactly: "In the 2013 budgets, Junta will have an enormous capacity to save on this expense, but through pathways such as the control of absenteeism, never with clippings; I repeat, never with clippings." Even on the six pages that the electoral program with which the People's Party competed for self-elections, there was no reference to clippings or any cuts in wages that the public employees and employees were receiving. This happened after the beginning of that year, the Government of Feijóo had launched a series of measures in the public sector, such as the reduction in pay for employees and public employees for low jobs, the voluntary reduction in the days of the interns, the abolition of dining rights or days off for Sundays or holidays, and the cutting of business days. Mr. Feijóo began the path of the re-election with two clear premises: the first, which had to be as far away from the measures that Mr. Rajoy was putting in place from Madrid; and the second, to make an amendment to the whole of his public service policy in the previous four years. Two months after the election, Mr. Feijóo announced a 4% reduction in the average payout of public employees' salaries through the 40% cut in the two extra payouts, doing so through specific supplements. The Government of the People's Party boasted in those days, while the workers and workers of the Galician Civil Service went out on the streets protesting against the deception they had been subjected to, that instead of losing an extra full pay, as in 2012, this time the officials would receive 60%. And I'm assuming that's why we're going to save 125 million euros. We were no longer in the campaign, the People's Party could take out the skirt, and I could show all the Greeks and the Greeks the deception that he had subjected them to during the election campaign. When we repeated from the PSdEG during that campaign many times – many of the comrades and comrades you are here sure you remember – that it would be a mistake, that Mr. Feijó was lying, that he was going to cut back the salary of the officials, accused us of misleading the citizenry, accused us of confusing and lying. Mr. Feijóo showed that we didn't lie, that the liar, what he was lying, was him. In September 2013 he again amended himself, once again, announcing that the retail would remain in 2014, the same as for 2015 and the same as for 2016, as reflected in the Budget Act; a measure that means that all employees of the Government of Galicia are losing around 200 million euros a year. If we look back, we see that, in the last ten years, the loss of purchasing power by the German workers and workers is around 34%; it's 4 points above the average of the state. The Government of Feijóo has heeded the warnings that both the trade union organizations and the opposition groups have made over the years, and in particular the Socialist Group, about the alleged illegality of their actions, both with the subsidiary claim and with the legitimate demand for the return of the supplements to all the officials of the Greek Public Administration. But not only from the unions, not only from the opposition political groups, but what the Socialist Group considers more serious is that it is carrying out judgments, repeated judgments, which have been handed down over over these years; judgments confirming the illegality of the actions that have been carried out by the Autonomic Administration. When this initiative was registered, we had just known a new sentence, a fourth sentence, which in this case recognized the staff member of the central services of the Board as the right to full payment of the specific supplements of the extra payments of that year and which also condemned the Galician Board to pay the costs. The judgment is firm and there is no appeal against it. This judgment makes it new that, if there is silence in the administrative wage claim, justice recognises that meaning is positive and therefore fully esteems the worker's claim. These days we were aware of another judgment, but in this case it was already a Supreme Court ruling, dismissing the appeal for cassation brought by the Board and making firm the judgment won by the union centres with more representation in the Greek Civil Service, which recognizes part of the collective conflict brought against the Galician Agency of Innovation and the General Directorate for Energy and Mines. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they will continue to issue more unfavorable judgments for the autonomous administration, do not doubt it. If in addition to the salary cuts, we add the deterioration in the quality of public employment, in the working conditions of the staff to the service of the Administration, the elimination of nearly 7,500 fixed jobs in the last four years, without the possibility of covering more than 10% of retirements, and only in special services, the increase of 50% of temporary jobs, including those of training, which are also temporary and have increased more than 49% by reading this initiative, you might think, ladies and gentlemen, that is incomplete and that remains short. This is a serious situation, for the government of Mr. Feijóo is cutting off the salary – and we cannot forget it – is the teachers who form our children, it is the health care staff who treats us when we are sick, it is the staff of justice – to the administrative staff, it is the staff of the administration, who form the backbone of public services; public services that are a fundamental pillar for equality, which are a fundamental pillar for social justice and which are a piar that, far from strengthening the People's Party, weakens and dismantles it with their policies. The only thing we want, therefore, with this initiative – which, as I said to them, remains short for the seriousness of the problems that the Welsh Public Service carries – is that the appeal for marriage brought before the Supreme Court on the specific complement, or equivalent concept for the work, of the two extra wages of the year 2013, and that they comply. All we ask here today is for them to pay attention and respect judicial judgments. No more lies, no more artifice games, no more returns in small portions of the salary, when you keep taking them off, if you keep reducing them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u228	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u229	...the purchasing power of public employees. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u230	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u231	Mr. President. Good day again. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso remains silent for a few minutes in the rostrum.]] [[Pause.]] It is clear that when you make a protest, it is when the Members of the People's Party attend the intervention for the first time since I take this House. We want to denounce, and that's why I haven't spoken, because I've got all the things that would probably lead to the second and third calls to order by a presidency that usually restricts the freedom of expression of Members, and in particular if they are AGE, more. Today, once again, it becomes an exceptional element which, of course, we cannot share, as has already been done in this legislation with another Member of the AGE, simply by those we continue to maintain the capacity for indignation. And that's why I'm not going to say all those things. I hope that one day the President of this House will write me the things that I can say and the things that I cannot say, because it is also true that the same qualifications, the same ways of intervening, if the People's Party does them, are allowed, if it does them AGE, not allowed. And at this initiative presented by the Socialist Party, the first thing to thank is the ability to illusion that they have, because it's an illusion to think that the People's Party will comply with the law, it's an illusion that the People's Party will take a sentence, it's an illusion to think that a People's Party that has only a few thousand cases of corruption in its bowels will now be the party that defends the law, and that defends the law, in this case, which is in favour of the workers of the public service. Because this People's Party that comes to us every day here to defend the workers of the public service after they make insumable cuts, criminalizes the public service, and comes to the bottom in that speech almost that they are privileged, going against the dignity of the public workers. And the biggest attack on public workers is a 7% cut, a flap that means 200 million euros less in the pockets of public workers. It's a robbery to the public workers what the People's Party is doing; 200 million euros they stole from the pockets and payrolls of the public workers. And it turns out that judgments now recognize that they have to be returned, and, above all, the sentence at the expense of the Council of Galicia. Who's gonna pay for that? As always, Juan Pueblo, not the politicians who made those illegal decisions. But, of course, when one reads some of the things that are done in the sentence it seems a lie that the People's Party does not understand what the sentence says, because the sentence expressly says some things, it says, "...constitutes a manifestation of the so-called deferred salary." Man, the People's Party doesn't know what a deferred salary has noses!; that you do not understand this judgment which obliges you to return the money. Of course, but also the magistrate who says this sentence is a skilful guy because he comes to say that, of course, the Government makes a reasoning and a theological interpretation. Here we go! The People's Party of Galicia makes a theological interpretation of every thing the People's Party does in Madrid – follow-up – say what it says. And if they have to kneel and put their pants down, they do. Fano!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u232	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u233	I'm done now. I haven't finished yet. There were 13 seconds left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u234	No, I'm sorry, 17 passed. We have to take a good look at the clock.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u235	Oh, I'm past seventeen, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u236	And he wasted another time; hence, he ended.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u237	Listen, when he listens, time grows fast.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u238	Well, that's it. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u239	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u240	No one is expelled here for what he says, here he is expelled for what is done, that he is made clear to him. Mr. Beers was not expelled for what he said but for what he did. And Mr. Calvin was not expelled for what he said but for what he did. That's absolutely clear to him. You don't cut anyone's word here, but you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And less to you! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u241	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. President, I know you're going to have me take what I'm going to say next. But I believe that the People's Party – starting with the president – has what is called [...]. [[Murmurs.]] [[By order of the President and in the wake of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.]] That's why I don't think it can be used from this gallery...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u242	Remove. Take that off, yeah. [[Laughter]] Take that away, don't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u243	Look, Mr. Santalices, I've passed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u244	But you already understand me and that's why you know that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u245	I've spent five years of my life studying the DSM-V, if now I can't see my knowledge here about it, it's going to be a terrible frustration in my life. I, indeed, Mr President – with all due respect – should, in fact, also make a presentation in this Parliament to make a manual of words usable and non-usable. [[Murmurs.]] Because I believe that the decoration of the House, that of the Members, and especially of the citizens, may be lacking in this regard vilifying words, insults, judgments of value, etc., but I don't believe that the use of perfectly recognized words has any problem. [[Murmurs.]] But, well, there you are with how you want to go through history, whether as a censor or as a person who allows to speak within democracy and normality in this Parliament. And speaking of democracy and normality, restoring democracy and normality would be that the Government of Galician Union would return them to the public employees of this country – civil servants, workers, statutory staff, etc. – all the rights that have been stolen from them – I don't know whether or not the word is allowed – since 2010. Some, indeed, are bound by binding decisions emanating from the various governments of the State; but others by voluntary decisions of the Gauls Union which did not obey any legal obligation, since there was no imperative of any other order except the political will of the People's Party expressed through its Government and through a profuse legislation on it. Through successive laws on budgets of the Galician Board, not only -- I insist -- rights that have been imposed from the state of extraordinary payments, a 5% reduction in all public employees' salaries, but also the Galician Board, through successive budget laws for the years since 2013 until now decided that public employees in Galicia should also be deprived of the extraordinary payment in their integrity, in addition to the 7% cut that was already made by state taxation. Here in Galicia since 2013 public employees are not charging the proportional part of the specific supplement in their extraordinary wages. Also by a political decision of the People's Party in 2012, it was approved urgently and only two months after the Budgets of the Galician Union were approved a law, Law 1/2012, through which new cuts of labour, economic and social rights of public employees were introduced. In the autumn of 2015, we had to attend this Parliament – also because of the political will of the People's Party, through a bill that had an ampulso title, which was "return of wages to public employees" – to a law that simply consisted of being returned to them in periods, indeed, the extraordinary payments that would be discounted to public employees. But at no time did the Galician Union propose that they also have to return the specific plugins that they have not paid for. And at no time – although it was formulated as amendments by this parliamentary group, among others – it was not even accepted to talk about the possibility of returning the specific salaries of the extras to public employees who were not getting paid. Moreover, in that debate, the councillor of Fairy said that immediately negotiations with public employees would be initiated through his representatives for the return not only of this specific complement but also of the other rights cut through Law 1/2012. Well, there have been practically six months, and beyond some minor issues, such as the return of days of own affairs – of so-called Muscouses, canoes, etc. – there has been little progress in relation to the return of rights to public employees, beyond those who came marked by state law, which was the proportional part of extraordinary payments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u246	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u247	That's why we expect this initiative to be approved today, which, in addition to changing, when it comes to the Union, is always the right thing to do. It's always the justice that's marking the way to Galician Union of restitution of rights to public employees. That is why the BNG Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u249	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Paz Franco, you're asking for a behavioral manual for this House. What I have to tell you is that this manual already exists; you know it, you always pay for your speeches, is the Rules of the House. What would be good is that the 75 members of this House have done it. Because when someone has to resort to insults or infamy to defend their ideas, it's likely that their ideas are not right or that at least they're not right. And we ask respect for the ideas of all the world, not only for ours, but for those of all the world. [[Applause]] And, of course, they can turn to insults, to infamy, to grab the seat of any of the Members who are here; we will continue to work to consolidate economic recovery and to continue to create jobs in Galicia. You continue with insults, you continue with crispacy; we will continue to focus on Galicia and focus on the problems of the Greeks. With regard to the initiative in question, Mr Fajardo, the initiative does not require that the judgments be complied with, that is not the case in the resolution of this initiative. In the initiative you are asked not to use judgments which are not firm, which are quite different; you are not required to comply with the judgments, you are asked not to use the judgments. In this sense, what we have to say is that the judicial route of the different demands presented around the additional payment of the specific complement of 2013 has not been homogeneous, there are various judgments, there are different judgments, and therefore it is understandable that, in cases where they contain a judgment that is not firm, they can be appealed. We therefore have nothing clear about the position of the initiative presented here. But, Mrs. Blanco, it is surprising to hear the Socialist Party be concerned about the public employees in our country. It turns out, at least, surprising. It seems, in our opinion, an exercise of political cynicism, of political hypocrisy, unprecedented. He says a saying that the cure of when he was a saint is not remembered. And, of course, it would apply to the Socialist Party because it seems that they have three seconds' worth of fish memory, and that, of course, you are experts in the art of dissimulation, because I have to tell you that it was the Socialist Government who dropped the salary to our country's officials between 5% and 8% perpetuity, per life, forever. That was done by the Socialist Party with President Rodríguez Zapatero. That was the biggest cut the public employees in our country suffered. It was your party that frozen pensions, it was also the first government in the history of our country that did so; it was your party that did that of the 10% replenishment rate, you have to remember. So who are you talking about with this initiative? Look, in Galicia we work for the civil service and we have a commitment to the public service since the People's Party in Galicia. And, therefore, during the crisis between 2008 and 2014 we can say that Galicia was one of the most stable communities where the number of self-government personnel remained, less than half the average of the rest of the communities. That's the reality. And, if you like, we'll tell you about your model, which is the Andalusian Board. The Andalusian Board lost 16,500 seats in the Autonomic Administration. That's the reality. Here in Galicia, what's going on? That chapter 1, the chapter for staff payrolls, increases by 5% in this year 2016 compared to the previous year. That's the reality. The Galician Board has just approved and agreed with the unions a plan of measures to promote the reconciliation of the working and family life of civil servants in Galicia; the prepared permit, paid for all workers from the first day of week 37 of management; allowances paid to participate in selective processes of other administrations; adaptation of the day to receive treatment of radiotherapy and chemotherapy; novelties also regarding breastfeeding permits; with regard to extra payment, we were one of the first communities that started to pay extra. So we've already returned 50% of the extra payment and guaranteed the other 50% this year 2016, and guaranteed it by law. Therefore, commitment to public service, on our part, is total; commitment that is also expressed... – yes, yes – in the public job offer of this year 2016, 2,644 squares, – 2,644 squares! –: 318 for social services, 296 for general administration, 818 for health, 1,122 places for education; finally, 2,644 new places for public service in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Finally, our commitment to public service is complete. We, of course, do not accept such lessons from the Socialist Party, because when they were able to give them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u250	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u251	...which was when they ruled, they didn't. You're the ones who cut the pay, the salary, all the officials in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u252	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u253	... those of the General Government of the State, those of the autonomous communities, those of the local administrations, between 5% and 8% each year, and forever. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u254	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u255	Thank you very much, President. First of all, I would like to thank you for the support of Alternative Left Galeg and the Galego Nationalist Block. Yes, Mr. Fajardo, the truth is that the illusion has been broken. You were right. Of course, Mr. Tellado, you have no intention of changing your disastrous public service policy. He said a lot of things, and the truth is, almost all lies. You're talking about Mr. Zapatero's flap, but you're not talking about the fact that the employees and public employees in Wales, taking into account the price index, the salary rise and the clippings of the last ten years, have lost a purchasing power of more than 23%, seven points more than the average of the autonomous communities. He speaks of the Board of Andalusia – who loves you, the Board of Andalusia and Zapatero; to see when he also incorporates some explanation about Mr. Baltar's case to his argumentary. The Union of Andalusia was, together with two other autonomous communities, the Autonomous Community of Madrid and the Autonomous Community of Basque Country, which in the past five years has increased the public supply of employment; Mr Tellado, it is informed. You also talk about the good they're doing the returns of the extraordinary wages of previous years. But Galicia is the only autonomous community that keeps this flap. And please don't talk about the public job offer, because it insults the intelligence of employees and public employees, it insults the intelligence of the union centers and all the groups that we're here. [[Applause]] Look, Mr Tellado, in health the reduction between the fixeds has been in the last years by 9.6%, there is an increase in the temporals by more than 50%, the interim masters and the eventual contracts have been fired in four years by more than 137%. Mr. Tellado, don't come here pretending to be a public job offer, because everyone we're here knows it's one more of your lies, it's one more of your measures in the election year. This initiative, as I said at the beginning of my speech, did not intend to change its policies of public service, it was a concrete case to put an end to something that the rest of the speakers commented on, so that the Galician Union should not have to pay costs; the costs that we paid all the Greeks and Greeks, Mr. Tellado. All they want, keeping resources, is to make time to try to avoid the inevitable, which is that they will have to return many millions of euros to public employees. The own decree of the Organic Regulation of the Juridical Counseling of the Board allows, by resolution of the Directorate-General, to authorize its non-interposition. This issue, Mr Tellado, is, like many others who reject you in this House, a matter of political will, in this case a question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u256	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u257	...about the work and the dignity of employees and public employees; a respect that you have just made very clear that you don't have. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the change of destination by the Galician Union of resources allocated for intensive aquaculture in the budgets of 2016 to aid for the maritime sector, the craftsmanship or fishing
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u259	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u260	Mr. Rodas has the floor for the defense of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u261	Good morning; afternoons/days, gentlemen. We have here today an initiative that exemplifies, which aims to exemplify, the double face of the People's Party. We have recently seen here as the popular mobilization was able to break the doors of this Parliament and force President Feijóo to paralyze the preliminary draft aquaculture law of Galicia, stating that a stop would be made on the way to open talks and negotiations with the sector. Paralyst, that he did not withdraw, said a little later to the Counsellor; although we later checked as announced the paralysis of this draft law with the intention of demobilizing the manifestation of the sector. It was a popular cry, a real concern for citizenship, that demanded a change in the policy of the sea sector in defense of a model of life that generates a lot of economic activity, a lot of employment and distributes horizontally a lot of wealth. We were then faced with an intensive model where there is once again an attempt to exist a prevalence of capital. It's nothing new, this belongs to the DNA of this neoliberal European Union, which the PP shares absolutely and which tries to apply calmly but without pause. We see it not only in fishing, we see it in small trade, in the naval, in the farm, in the spoils of our resources, we see it every day in the application of their policy. They're applying it, as I said, slowly as we left him. When we face this situation, we see how the letter holds everything. So we could see during this social response process how the Council would modulate its position according to this social pressure. We saw how fish cultivation was eliminated from bats polygons, even from their own rivers, or how the goal of transforming shellfish into aquaculture became voluntary and reversible. But when the time comes for the truth and the sector is asking for action from now on – it subsequently asked the sector to remove salmon chalets from the rivers of Muros and Noia, an experimental authorization, by the way – for we see the true face of Mrs Quintana, who says absolutely no. So it's when we check that the roots of their masters are quite deep; quite deep and that they emerge from the direction of the European Union itself. Here we have the FEMP funds, which clearly define the objectives of fisheries policy. In them, many millions are destined for aquaculture, and these do not include, for example, aid for the temporary stop-up of seafarers on foot, but instead there are various headings where they are totally clearly bet on a new model of aquaculture. For aquaculture companies with investments of more than €50,000, there is funding; to reduce the dependence of thought, flour and fish oil, there is funding; for investments that reduce the impact on water quality, to map even the most suitable areas for aquaculture development, so that there are investments, and come perfectly defined since Regulation 502/2014 which requires the European Union. Even these guidelines go a lot further. What we have been asking for for in this country for many years now is that there is a possibility of applying it in future aquaculture. Now if you can subsidize insurance for bad time, for natural disasters, for mortality, or, if you do well, what you've seen claiming for many years now, it turns out that if it's aquaculture, because you can cope with the drama of Marteilia, of Perkinsus, of biotoxin stops, etc. This is the world on the contrary; the one who has the most if he helps with public funds, and the one who has incomes of misery is violently and socially and economically excluded. These roots, by the way, imposed by the European Union, also here in our country are perfectly cemented. Earlier, even from the adoption of this preliminary draft law we were able to see that in the budgets this year, nothing more and nothing less than EUR 18 million was to implement the requirements imposed by Brussels, an insurance for aquaculture populations; in this budget there are EUR 800,000 for productive investments in aquaculture projects and nothing less than EUR 8 million for the promotion of new aquaculture companies, for the advice of aquaculture farms, to reduce the amount of water used and the contaminating elements, measures for animal health and welfare, for the conversion of management and environmental assessment systems. Here, as we see, funding commitments are already needed before, even from the adoption of the law we have seen commenting on. So since the European Union, we have been applied to a model that aims to concentrate on a few hands our resources, contaminates and produces the social exclusion of current workers, and, above all, they are financed with public money and counting on the enthusiastic collaboration of those who claim to represent the Greeks and the Greeks. They give them a public good like our rivers, our waters and, above, we finance them the project, the thought and the barbiturics, while our mariners, our sailors, end up being expelled from their activity and end up in misery. In the world of the sea, we say, "the fish on the patella." So this initiative aims to show whether the People's Party is willing to rectify and support a simple and concrete initiative: nothing more and nothing less than to allocate these 18 million euros linked to intensive aquaculture in the budgets of this 2016 to aid for the marine, mythic and artisanal fisheries sector. Simple and concrete measures and assistance, such as recovering, for example, the mini-creator that the Union has in Camarinas or in the Vicedo, or even the Hatchery of Noia, and betting once and for all because this country has the ability to produce its own seed. It helps, for example, for walkers, who in this FEMP do not contemplate helping this collective, and thus be able to cope with the tragedy of the mortality of Marteilia, or the thin plum in Arousa, or the baboon plum in Pontevedra, or the blessed plum in the Vigo stream. Help for the sardine's biological stops, and that doesn't happen to us in 2014 when it stopped in November and December, and it turns out that today they haven't paid for this help yet. You help to once and for all to make a biological stoppage to allow the recovery of fish from our coast, and that fleets like that of the trawler or fleets like that of the wheel that have some alternative to survive and that do not go to waste, as is happening in recent years because of a lack of active policy or having a fishing agreement with Portugal that leaves it, for example. Measures to encourage the incorporation of young people and girls and to produce generational relief. Simple and concrete measures to eliminate fraud in the flagging of the mussel, where, by the way, I think today we have excellent news, because finally the sentence becomes firm. So we want these 18 million euros to go to our reality, to help manage our fishing resources better, to improve the incomes of our mariners and our mariners, in contrast, like, their bet on allowing out-of-town capitals to take advantage of our resources, and to further minimize the situation of our sea workers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u262	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u263	Good day again. I was saying only fifteen minutes ago that the president of this Parliament, by the way, friend of Baltar Junior...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u264	Everyone has their friends.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u265	Yes, if each one has his friends, that's clear. His friends are, among them, Baltar Junior, accused of almost trying to use sexual favors for jobs. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] I don't blame myself. I'm just saying what's in every... I don't bump into anything, I just say what's in every...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u266	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u267	Please don't talk. [[The President said words that were not understood.]] [[Laughter]] Mr President, not dialogue, not dialogue. I say it because it's good that you know the references you have each when you say you can't or don't cut anyone's word. I collide when I say some things according to Mr. President, but you don't cut anyone's word, a first-order Democrat and a person, besides, who defends women's rights by hugging his friend Baltar Junior, who just confirmed you're his friend. In this context, there is a situation that would not be received in a normal country. The set of sea professionals, all sea professionals, is equal to the art they use, it is equal to the sector they belong to, the confrerery they belong to, it mobilizes against an initiative of the sea councillor of this country: the Law of Aquaculture. And it turns out that despite being able to conciliate those 40,000 people in the square of the Oberdoiro, who unanimously asked for their resignation, she believes the advisor who continues legitimately to remain in his office. In political terms, it is irrational, except for a goal to be maintained: that that person takes forward something that no one else wants to do or wants to face up to, that has to do with a neoliberal international policy that goes against traditional fishing populations in the whole not only of this country, of the state, but of the whole world, that has to do with the capture of the seas. Today, this government is committed to the policy of catching the seas, that is, a policy where the sea is seen as a place to be used by anyone, and traditional fishing and traditional aquaculture remain in the background. That's how the People's Party in the European Union, through something called the "blue economy" – good name for something so dangerous – is defending that traditional fishing and aquaculture are secondary elements in all those things that can be used in the sea. And what does the People's Party think about in the European Union and which therefore applies in this country to the blue economy? So it suggests that the first thing we have to do is try to put on the table priorities for the exploitation of the sea: mining of minerals from the seabed, energy exploitation from the whole sea and occupation... Don't laugh, Mr. Balsairo, because I don't stay away from cars or demonstrations, I say the things that happen in Europe and what you defend in Europe. I know you're going to say that I have no idea of fishing, I know you're going to say that I have no idea of aquaculture, but what I do know is what the People's Party wants, which is to expel all professionals from the sea, just to deal with it and also with industrial aquaculture. That's how you get around the question, and, as it is said in this initiative, 18 million euros for industrial aquaculture in our country. Between 18 million euros for industrial aquaculture in this country, that is to say, to subsidize the production of multinationals that have the capacity to do so, let themselves starve our traditional fishing or our seafooders. And you have voted on numerous occasions against initiatives by this group and others, asking them to collect initiatives to meet the economic needs of the seamstresses when they cannot support their job. You don't do anything, for example, so that those 18 million euros can serve our mariners to increase their income: 346 euros a month on average last year. That's what our seamstresses charge on average. Well, in front of that, you don't put anything on the table. Yes, 18 million euros for industrial aquaculture. What's behind all this is an economic model that the People's Party defends, which is the expulsion of our traditional workers to put other things. The last initiative of the People's Party: this project that will co-finance and also participates in the University of Vigo to use tidal motor energy on our backs. Where there is the energy of tidal motors, fishers are loaded up because they disturb the multinationals that exploit the sea. So we're not playing anything, we're playing an energy model, a model of exploitation of our sea that is radically opposed to our needs and, above all, that can mean the end of Galicia we know. So we will support the initiative and we will be eager to hear the huge intervention that the fishing spokesman of the People's Party will have prepared for us. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u268	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u269	Thank you very much, President. Good day to all and to all. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote favourably on this initiative which today presents the Galego Nationalist Block, although we are aware that, in its literality, when we talk about devoting budgets to aquaculture for handicrafts, seafood or mythology, they could also be left out segments of sustainable and traditional aquaculture that have been taking place in our autonomous community since time immemorial, such as the cultivation of oysters or other aquaculture activities on earth. But we understand that this is an initiative that is the result of the failure of the People's Party Government to implement an intensive aquaculture model that has faced with the rejection of the sector. The group I represent has already said openly in the budget debate at the end of October last year that in these budgets, in the budgets of the year 2016, what strongly called attention was the important volume of public resources that the People's Party devoted to aquaculture. A volume of resources never previously projected in such a way that it had as its last end the launch of a draft aquaculture law, which is now clearly unauthorized. We speak – we have said here – about 18 million euros that leave to add up all the games that are related to the word "acuculture" or the words "acuculture" in the capital transfers section of these budgets, and which clearly contrast, for example, with the level of investor of this council on such important things for the Socialist Parliamentary Group as is the incorporation of young people into the sector, for which this government dedicates to the absurd amount of EUR 500,000. Or they even counter to such urgent ends as improvements in seafood production areas, just as we've been seeing for several years the real situation in which marine production areas are found. And even then justly that for the first time in a long time, once the free shellfish campaign in the Arousa River, which was the economic engine and the lung of that creek, the seat of the Eye Lombs, remained closed for the first time. This, without a doubt, is a sample of which are the priorities of the People's Party Government, a clear demonstration of its political stakes, in this case by intensive aquaculture. And at that time, in the budget debate in October 2015, you, the representatives of the People's Party, a draft aquaculture law, which, in fact, I'm sure you had to approve with great ease. Fortunately, the sector was able to mobilize and paralyze, and for that reason you were making this strong investment in your budgets. Today the situation is quite different. A few days ago more than 40,000 people were told from the streets of Compostela that you were wrong and that you have to bet on a traditional and sustainable model in the marine environment. By a traditional and sustainable model that – and I will never tire of repeating – has led Galicia to become a world leader in the production of mussel, to be the first producer. If it's certainly not today, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you must make yourselves look at what you're doing with your policies. And that also led to our traditional fishing and our seafood being able to compete on the market based on the quality of their product. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we've been saying a long time ago that we need a shift in fisheries policy. There are the motions for resolutions that this group has tabled throughout this legislation and also the hundreds of initiatives that we have discussed both in this House and in the 8th Commission. And indeed, we believe it is time for you to pay attention to people, to realize that this country needs a serious commitment to this matter. Because since you are Government – over seven years ago – Galicia has unfortunately lost nearly five thousand contributors to the special regime of the sea of Social Security. Those are the numbers you have on the table and those you have to deal with. That's why today they have a chance to do it and tell the sector that they've understood the message and that they're going to rectify it. Today you have the opportunity to finally end this Aquaculture Bill by withdrawing your funding, those 18 million euros that you have reflected in your budgets. Then, in fact, we can sit down and talk to the sector about what we're going to dedicate these 18 million, but actually, what they have to do today is to give the sector a demonstration that they understand what their main problems are and start to deal with the problems we have in the fishing sector in this country. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u270	Thank you very much, Mr. Val. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u271	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Rhodes, ask us for the Galego Nationalist Block – the political force you represent – that we eliminate shares that the People's Group believes are objectively beneficial to the sector. You say that support must be prioritized for the marine sector, for the mythic and for artisanal fisheries. Of course I do. We fully agree with this House's majority group, fully agree. These three sectors are precisely the preferred recipients of the new European Maritime and Fisheries Fund. But it is not what this Member says or what the majority group of the House says, that is how the operational programme regulates this fund. I repeat, this is how the operating program that regulates this fund sets out. What surprises us is that Mr. Rhodes and the Galician Nationalist Block don't know this; it surprises us. That's why I'm telling you that we're going to vote in favour. Because we would be voting, if we did not vote for it, against what establishes an operational programme regulating this fund and we would be voting against what the Government of Galicia has decided. That's why we're going to vote in favour of it. And neither did you pay close attention to the explanations you gave in this House on multiple occasions both the general directors and the Counsellor when you presented the 2016 budget for this council. I mean, you're not asking, Mr. Rhodes, anything other than what you're doing right now and what you've done in the last eight years, the Government of Galicia; you're not asking anything different than what you're doing right now, what you're going to do in the next eight years and what you've done in the last eight years, the Government of Galicia. Check out the operating program and you'll see that the objectives you claim are identical to those that the program itself designed by the Galician Union has already set. You haven't read the program, otherwise it's impossible to bring this initiative. You have neither listened to the explanations given by members of the Government of Galicia in this House, both in the plenary session of this House and in the Commission; otherwise, it is impossible. But allow me to explain some things to you very briefly. Let me explain to you what is the destination of the games you cited and which you have so much interest in eliminating. When you talk about productive investments in aquaculture, you should know that the coastal sector has taken 82% of the aid for this concept. Over the past eight years, the coastal sector has taken 82% of the aid you say in aquaculture investments, and I doubt very much that you may be against not supporting the mussels. And I give you more data: during the period 2007-2015, of the 1,322 aids awarded for a value of 38 million euros, more than 31 million euros were directly to the holders of the Greek bats; that is, 82.10 % of the aid. So you realize that you are asking for the same thing that the Board has been doing, not now, but at least for the last eight years. Welcome, you've noticed and you're saying that what you're doing is well done. That's a lot worse! Unfortunately one day you realized that what the Government of Galicia has been doing in recent years, through an initiative – which is to be thanked – of the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, supported by AGE and supported by the Socialist Party, brings it to the Parliament of Galicia. Welcome! Another part: the promotion of new aquaculture companies. But what intensive aquaculture are you talking about, Mr. Rhodes? What did the other spokespersons talk about? If this game can only access small and medium-sized companies, which have nothing to do with the multinationals you've just talked about! It's not intensive aquaculture, nor are they multinational. You also speak of another game that he cites, the heading to reduce water consumption and the contaminating elements. And I ask you, do you find it negative that the Greek Government improves the effectiveness of water quality control systems?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u272	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u273	Do you think it's negative? Because you guys, when they were giving these magistral talks all over the coast of Galicia, this was one of the things they were defending, not long ago. So, I'm telling you more, we're going to approve the initiative. We could also tell him: that's what the Government of Galicia is already doing! Welcome, but they noticed late. But we don't want to be like that either, because we want you to see, too, by your vote, that you are recognizing that the policy that the Government of Galicia will make in the coming years through this program and the policy that it has been doing in the last eight years is well done. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u275	I appreciate that Mr. Balsairo, when he looks, looks at the car coming, that he puts himself aside. Indeed, because it is the way to survive; to survive, as we are seeing now, which, for example, today brings together the Galician Fisheries Council. I think the last meeting was 2012. You love it! But, well, it's better late than ever, indeed. I, in my interpretation, quoted here some facts that are obvious. Home!, I already know I'm a mere juntaleters, but I still know how to read literally, and when I talk about animal health and welfare measures here, 1.5 million euros, for, look at you, this is a measure that has never happened, that we have problems with Marteilia, that we have problems with Bonamia, and for that we had to go to the mountains of Úbeda to find funds to be able to finance what research is, but not for these specific cases, or even, sure, for the aquatic populations, 800,000 euros. When were the growing populations guaranteed here? First time. But that way we could go about crumbing around. What is already amazing is that in the beginning of reducing the amount of water that can be used and the contaminant and chemical elements, 4,700,000 euros, which goes mainly for cultivation on land, you see me here that this is a bet on the quality of water in rivers. But let's go! Please! The Union has been doing this policy in the last eight years, indeed, to allow certain investments to land here in our country, and it is true that in this last scenario you have been the vanguard in order to facilitate the conditions and also the vanguard in terms of financing these new projects. And you said you're totally in agreement. They have no choice. Thirty-hundred or forty thousand people came together the other day in the Parza do Obradoiro, demanding a change of course. Never until now has the Counsellor had so much susceptibility to receive the sector; not even you, Mr. Balsairo, had so much concern to visit the different confrries in the country. By the way, in the middle down we've never seen him march through the corresponding ports. So welcome is the initiative brought here by the BNG, but I also have to tell you that you, too easily, come to support certain BNG initiatives that then end up on the ground of no one...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u276	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u277	I think, for example, the denunciation of the principle of relative stability, that where it has been; or recently the measures that compensate for discards, that have done nothing; or even in 2010, that support for the rights of former Norwegian sailors; the latter is that, for example, you have just supported the transfer of oceanographic competences and the centres of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u278	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u279	...or the Institute of Marine Research. And he's got a holy face to tell us that he's already asked and that he's one of his priorities. It's like this, isn't it, Mr. Balsairo? Yeah, well, get in the car and get in the...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u280	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u281	...to make conditions so that once and for all this country, the sea, has some future for our sailors and our sailors. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u282	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and seven other Members, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia, in the Galician Parliament, of the data corresponding to the Greek Register of acute myocardial infarction
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u283	The following amendments were tabled to this motion for a non-law: an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group and an amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u284	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u285	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. We have brought back to this plenary session of the Galician Parliament a subject which we consider to be of extraordinary importance in the People's Parliamentary Group. I mean, as you know, the treatment of a serious disease, acute myocardial infarction, which, fortunately, in recent years, has achieved an important improvement in their mortality and quality of life in relation to the control of risk factors and new drugs and invasive techniques for the treatment of disease. The People's Parliamentary Group has registered an initiative, a non-legislative proposal, which was discussed in the plenary session of December 3, 2014. In this debate it was agreed to have a unique register of the Greek field that collects all the information on morbidity and mortality in relation to acute myocardial infarction. And in point 2, the data reflected in the Register is taken into account to adapt human and material resources to the care needs of management structures. The proposal was approved with the second point with the only support of Members and Members of the People's Group. The technical data from Regaliam, collected for six months by professionals responsible for coordinating this register, has just been presented in press this morning. The Members and Members of this group are very much like this press round, a technical press round, but we continue to maintain our proposal that the Council present in this Parliament the data collected, the interpretation of them and, as we are calling for in our initiative in December 2014, the assessment of possible new resources necessary for the attention of this group of patients on the basis of the results presented. Allow me to speak of the Record Record, already quoted on other occasions in the Chamber. Since 2012 the Spanish Society of Cardiology has been presenting this record. In last year 2015, they presented the latest report, which contains very interesting conclusions on resources, activity and qualities, among which they say that the allocation of the resource is in general across the country over the criteria for the management of recommended resources. In Galicia, of course, there is a haemodynamic room for every 305,000 inhabitants, against one recommendation for every 400,000. They also say, for the state as a whole, that there are margins of improvement in the development of regional care networks, the creation of comprehensive emergency systems for catheterization and process management. Galicia works online with a regionalized system. There are three areas, with a population distribution of 750,000 to 1,070,000 people, over 600,000 people, who recommend Recalar, and there are satellite rooms in Lugo and Ourense. Galicia has cardiological attention in the field of ischemic cardiopathy of Spain's most advanced ones, highlighting excellent vocational training, appropriate and complete technological provision and with good geographic distribution and a regionalized and networked organization, consistent with the recommendations of scientific societies, including the Spanish Society of Cardiology. As a result of the parliamentary mandate in December 2014, the Galego Health Service took the necessary steps to create the Greek Record of acute myocardial infarction, in accordance with the recommendations of the professionals. On April 17, 2015, a consensus document was signed with all service heads of Galicia, so in relation to the attention to acute myocardial infarction, it was agreed to have a Greek record that would provide information and prospective follow-up to patients, so that any decision-making can be based on objective and real results. In the design of the Register and the definition of the parameters collected in it, professionals designated from these services participated. One of the objectives of the Register is to provide accurate epidemiological and assistance data for effective and efficient planning of material and human resources for attention to acute myocardial infarction; in short, to make the most appropriate decisions in the care of this pathology. It will allow this record, which we now ask the Council to present in this Parliament, analyzing 99 parameters, to know the epidemiological, clinical and therapeutic characteristics of the population affected by acute myocardial infarction, registering the procedure of access of the patient to the health system, the itinerary followed to receive the assistance, the diagnostic and therapeutic means used, the response times and its results. Assessing the effectiveness, efficiency and effectiveness of the care network will serve as a basis for the development of epidemiological, clinical and statistical studies. Prior to the adoption of the decree, as I told you earlier, there were meetings of the Cardiology Service Chiefs of all EOXI, who agreed on the definition of the parameters to be collected, the development of an application of the web environment, and also the development of instructions that will regulate the Register. At that meeting, the establishment of this register was unanimously evaluated and the follow-up of clinical practice guides was considered necessary in all areas. With regard to the functioning of the hemodynamic rooms of Lugo or Ourense on a 24-hour day, the majority opinion of the heads of service is the convenience of not modifying the current organizational model as long as there are no data obtained from the Register that would be implanted, and see if that data had been advised. It was also necessary to transfer a clear and unequivocal message to the citizen that attention throughout Galicia in the case of acute myocardial infarction is very good. We believe that this is important to point out in this Parliament. The figures, ladies and gentlemen, indicate this in the statistics of the Ministry of Health. In 2012 the rate of acute myocardial infarction adjusted by age and gender was 4,62 %, much lower than the average of the entire national health system, which was 5.74 %, and only higher than that in the Autonomous Community of Navarre. We would also like to highlight the importance of Progaliam, the German program of attention to myocardial infarction, a pioneer in the state. With more than ten years of existence, it has improved the expectation and quality of life of the infarcted patient, promoting equity in access to benefits in a community with geographical dispersion as large as Galicia. It has three fundamental objectives: to reduce mortality and morbidity by infarction, to promote equity in access to health care services and to speed up action to reduce the time between onset of symptoms, diagnosis and treatment. Its key points are: simplification of procedures, direct transfer to patients, from diagnosis, directly to the hemodynamics room, modifying the administrative and organizational barriers within and outside hospitals and, if possible, the return of the patient, whenever possible, to his reference hospital. It's very important to raise awareness of the population of calling 061 in front of the slightest suspicion of having any symptoms of infarction, and I want to have an impact on that from this rostrum. It's very important that you call yourself right away. This precocious diagnosis, combined with coordination between hospital and hospital care, is what allows Galicia to be today the second autonomous community for survival, for acute myocardial infarction, of patients who are transferred by 061. From this record, Regaliam, it will be very important to evaluate and compare the death figures for those patients with acute myocardial infarction that exceed 120 minutes between the start of the clinic and its revascularization. It will also be of vital importance for decision-making to control the subsequent evolution of patients treated after these 120 minutes. Their survival in years, their quality of life, or the presence of complications arising from their initial process are important data to be evaluated. Comparing both groups, more than 120 minutes and less than 120 minutes, will help, without any doubt, make decisions. Having a unique record with the same parameters will allow us to evaluate objective and comparable data from all areas of health in Galicia and make decisions, as we said, on the real needs of human and material resources and on the geographic distribution of them, for quality care for the sick who suffer acute myocardial infarction in the territory of our community. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this disease, we are well positioned in Galicia with the rest of the state's communities, but from this parliamentary group we want the information reached and the data of Regaliam to be known in this Parliament by the Health Council, and on the basis of them, to make decisions that are considered appropriate for the best treatment of heart patients. We are in times of transparency, and in the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia we bet on it. Waiting for group support for this proposal, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u286	Thank you, Mr. Núñez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u287	Thank you, President, and good day again. Mr President, in fact, we have discussed enough in this House about attention to ischemic heart disease, but you have done that, after so much debate, in the provinces of the interior – by the way, the older ones and the most dispersed population – the hemodynamic chambers continue to operate only 8 hours. Working hours, Mr President, to deal with the infarctions; somewhat insufficient, according to the experts in that report you mentioned here, the Report highlights, and something that undoubtedly indicates the common sense. Look, I remind you that the Cardiologists at Lugo have warned that with this eight-hour system 60% of the infarctions still needed to be transferred, as they occur outside the office time in which the hemodynamics room works. But what's the problem with these transfers, the discomfort for the patient and his family? No, no, no, no. The risk of transporting a serious and unstable patient on the road? No, but so do I. The problem with these transfers is that only 1 out of every 3 people transferred arrives in time to receive the attention indicated after an ischemic accident, at that time, the 90 or 120 minutes of what you were talking about; the time indicated – I insist – for interventionist treatment, because, as you know very well, after that time, the ischemic heart muscle has already been irreversibly damaged. Today the People's Group returns to this House on the subject of infarction, but not to announce that the hemodynamics rooms in Lugo and Ourense will be running for 24 hours, not to use the Register again, but allow me to tell you, I don't know if to keep tying up the partridge. But let us do some history of what has led the People's Parliamentary Group to this House in relation to the treatment of infarction. In 2005, the People's Party in the Opposition: because you brought a non-law proposition requesting hemodynamics for Ourense. In 2007, they spoke again about this issue in the Chamber to ask the advisor – who at that time was Mrs. Rubio – about hemodynamics. Counsellor who reaffirmed his commitment to the hemodynamics rooms for Ourense and Lugo and advisor who completed his term of office leaving the hemodynamics room in Ourense, although only working 8 hours. By the way, the program you're highlighting here, Progaliam. Well, it's true it was only eight hours, but it's also true that that counselor was only three and a half years old in the government. In 2014, when Feijóo has been in front of Junta for five years. What does the People's Party do in the face of pressure from Lugo society – I remind you that there is even a popular legislative initiative? Well, he makes a new proposal, not the law of the PP. But did they ask for hemodynamics this time? No, on this occasion they asked for the Log, record the data and numbers of acute myocardial infarction. All right, year 2006, another non-law proposition, asking for hemodynamics 24 hours? No, coming back again with the subject of the Register. Look, I don't know what the registrar, sir, what they announced, what they said they made public today. I know what the counselor would like me to say to that record. I do know that, but I also know what the cardiologists and the statistics from Lugo tell us. I know that, in the month of having suffered an infarction, the number of deaths in Lugo is 45% higher than in Compostela; I know that in Lugo a patient has five times more chance of dying from a infarction than in Santiago; I know that the death rate for infarction in Lugo is 76 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants, while in Pontevedra it is in 33 and in Coruña in 46. And, look, I'm talking about Lugo and I'm not talking about Ourense, because I also know that Lugo is the province that has the highest mortality from Galician infarction and I know that, despite all this, the People's Party, neither in the Government nor in the opposition, has never asked this House for a hemodynamics for Lugo or ever asked this House for the hemodynamics to run in Lugo and Ourense 24 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing to object to the Register; in fact, at the time of the Bipartite, we launched a record of tumors in Galicia; a record which, by the way, when the People's Party arrived disappeared. But the common sense, ladies and gentlemen, advises that in view of this already known data...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u288	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u289	...the hemodynamics rooms – finished – work 24 hours in Lugo and Ourense. And that's exactly what we're asking for in our amendment. If I may be allowed by the president, I would like to finish with a small tribute to Dr. Vázquez, a great Member who, speaking in this House, said, "It is logical that infarction depends on your lifestyle habits, which depends on your genetic code, but can never depend on your postal code." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u290	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Left Gallega, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u291	Thank you, President. We don't have any problems with providing data to the House, I'd miss it more! This group is a regular applicant and always gets silent information from the Galician Union. Even though we're going to abstain, because the truth is, having been made available through the media this morning, it seems to us little respectable that an initiative is being taken today to request it. It is not the first time, and we are struck by the way of asking for that information, because, as the initiative said, on 3 December 2014 we discussed this proposal by the People's Party on the data of infarction, which then Mr. Voicer, today President, said that he had to ask why a congress of the Spanish Association of Cardiology had just been held and that the resulting document denounced the absence of common criteria in a systematic collection of data related to acute myocardial infarction in Galicia. It quite draws attention that, after Parliament is involved in its adoption, the Council of Galicia itself in the Order of 11 May 2015, so that the Registrar is created, does not consider that information being transferred to Parliament. If you plan to move to the IGE and other bodies, but not to the Galician Parliament, and you have to ask, through a non-law proposal, this information. However, because it is not explained in order what the criterion is, since you have a fluid relationship with the Galician Union, you could clarify here today what criteria were followed in that record, because only data from the acute myocardial infarction with ST elevation, and not the rest of coronary pathology, could be used to collect another type of data. And step by step, you could clarify what the functions are and what work the commission of control and follow-up of this record and the scientific committee, which are described in Instruction 2/15 of May 15, which stipulates how sometimes you even have to meet a year, how often, and for what you serve, but we don't know what jobs you've done during this time. He drew attention that, in the debate on December 3, 2014, the spokesperson of the People's Party said that among the data that were important and that there was to be provided was quality in transfers, displacement time or attention to acute myocardial infarction in private centers. And he draws attention because in the 11th of May it becomes clear that the register will only be compulsory for the centres of the Galician Health Service, for Povisa for its singular concert and for the 061. We'd like to be explained why private centres have been refused to provide that same information that the public have to provide, even if it was only because – let's say – until there is a derivation, because it is possible that in some private centers they do not treat acute coronary pathology. On the other hand, Instruction 2/15 defines which are the statistical items and, among them, sets out, for example, the residence council or the health service situation. I wonder if we're also going to be given the miles away; because you fixed those two items, you could calculate and provide us with the data, essentially so we don't have to read it by the press, because as it happens by the data you're leaving this morning's appearance. I have to remember that this debate has taken place precisely within the framework of this distorted popular legislative initiative aimed at ensuring the services of hemodynamics and radiotherapy because for the province of Lugo but also for that of Ourense, right? And the People's Party, after delaying its debate, was justified by saying that it needed more reliable data because in this case the incidence and characteristics of infarction care in Galicia, when I had already – we said – promised that I was going to implement this service at least since 2011, which was when the Lugo hospital was inaugurated; that is, in 2011 it promised it and in 2014 it was agreed that it did not have enough data, even after the deadline to submit amendments to the ILP, which was already proposed by law. And so it has to be framed in that context, because its disruption included the fact that they had no obligation to implement any of these services until 18 months after approval or entry into force of the new law. Therefore, this government will not have the obligation with this data to implement absolutely any kind of service, because we are going at the end of 2016, long after the elections in Galicia have been produced – hopefully. We don't have the official data – and I'm done now – but we do have some data that transfers us to the press, and that I think it's interesting to say that you don't have much difference, because we're told that Lugo's inhabitants have an 82-minute delay in attention to those of Compostela. And so we'll talk more in this House about these matters.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u292	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u293	Well, good afternoon to all, ladies and gentlemen. He said the previous public party health spokesman, the current president of this Parliament, in defending here the initiative that called for the creation of the single record of acute myocardial infarction in December 2012, that administrations have an obligation to permanently adapt to the best available evidence and that, in order to adapt to the available evidence, reliable data is essential. And what is obvious is that he also said that there was data, but that they didn't have a single pattern, there was no uniformity, and that's why it's a great concern to have that record. What if there is evidence available is that in February 2011 President Feijóo solemnly promised at the inauguration of the Lucus Augusti Hospital the immediate installation of the services of hemodynamics, radiotherapy and nuclear medicine, which in the same quarter of 2011 would bid the pending services, a commitment that the patients of Lugo with heart problems or cancer should not have to travel to Coruña or Santiago. Five years later, five years later, only hemodynamics is installed but, indeed, in office hours exclusively. It is also evidence that heart disease that occurs in the evenings, in the evenings, on holidays, on weekends is still being transferred to Santiago or to the Coruña. It's evidence that only one third of the people with acute myocardial infarction of Lugo can be treated at the hospital, and, what's the same, can be treated in time. Because they have just given a fact that it was therefore of common concern: that, indeed, it is not the same thing to be treated in a hospital that is at a certain distance than in another place that is more than a hundred kilometers away. That's evidence, isn't it? Just as it's evidence that Lugo's neighbours have been waiting for years for this service, they've been demanding that this service be put on, they've been complaining for years that you're only paying attention to those 1 out of every 3 people with acute myocardial infarction, claiming that their life cannot depend on what time they're infarcting, you can't depend on what time they're infarction. And it can't depend, I mean, that fairness that you just said was one of the goals, is that there's no such fairness. There is no fairness between a person who lives in the Incio, who lives in the Cebreiro, who lives in Valdeorras with regard to one who has the hospital next door. So, these evidences don't need any single data record, those are evidence everybody knows about. And it's evidence that, in view of that situation, the People's Party does what it does is to systematically disregard the promises made five years ago. And it's evidence that the People's Party is blatantly lying to the neighbors and neighbors. It's evidence that time is decisive. That's just evidence that scientists, technicians, and anybody knows it because of the common. It is also evidence that the People's Party has distorted the ILP that has arrived in this Parliament endorsed by over 40,000 signatures to violate its promise and to continue to leave the neighbours and neighbours of Lugo helpless. It's evidence. And it is also available evidence that the People's Party, which votes against the initiatives brought to this Parliament to demand that there be coverage for the neighbors and neighbors of Lugo and Ourense, because it votes against, but it is very concerned about the existence of a record, just as it votes against the endowment of a medicalized ambulance for the neighbors and neighbors of the district of Salnes, who do not have any isochrons that guarantee those minimum times in order to be treated in terms of those 90 minutes or those 120; the People's Party votes against. This People's Party that votes against all this turns out that it is the second time that it brings initiatives to this Parliament, very concerned that there is a single register where all the data are recorded. I mean, to me and to BNG it seems totally embarrassing that the People's Party is so diligent to want to have a record where all the data are written down and come to the conclusion that Lugo and Ourense are as well as they are and are not going to increase the hours. They're taking good care of hemodynamics only on office hours, so diligent for that, so diligent, and no diligence to solve the problems. Of course, you should look at it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, you should look at how it might be the second time you bring here an initiative to have the data and bring no initiative and vote against the initiatives brought here by opposition groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u294	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u295	...to solve the problems that the neighbours and neighbours of this country have. Of course, there you are, there you are, there you are. A record with data that can be better tabulated or less, but which shows what everyone already knows: that with the people's health policies, we are sold to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Author group of the proposal. Mr. Nunez. Give a voice to Mr. Núñez Centeno's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u297	Thank you, President. As Mrs. Acuña likes history, we're going to make history. "Is it extraordinary to ask in this amendment that we should address the dimensioning of hemodynamic units in the Autonomous Community of Galicia and distribution? That is, that the Health Council and the Government as a whole study and know what the needs are, because, without misgivings of their figures, we will have to have other figures or other studies, and, based on those studies and needs, establish with a vision of the country where these units should be", end of the quote. "You know there are 300 references," said you, two provinces. Galicia can be divided into four provinces. but it can also be divided into three regions: North, Central and South. So for some things we'll have to plan in one way and for others," end of the second appointment. The first quote is Mr. Aymerich's intervention and Mr. Modesto's second position in a debate in which they tabled an amendment to a proposal from the People's Group, when he ruled the Bipartite, to equip a hemodynamic laboratory for the province of Ourense, which replaced "to address the dimensioning of hemodynamic units in the Autonomous Community of Galicia and the distribution of them." Look, ladies, you have to tell the truth. You, Mrs. Acuña, opened it in Ourense when the legislation was to be completed in response to the demands of the People's Group, then in the opposition, and opened it from 8 to 3. You during the two-party government planned Lugo's hospital without considering the possibility of hemodynamics room dowry; they left Lugo's hospital with no budget, no equipment and no hemodynamics room. It had to be the Government of the People's Party who invested more than 80 million in equipping and executing that hospital; there were no beds, Mrs. Acuña. It had to be the People's Party who donated and put into operation the hemodynamics room of the Lucus Augusti Hospital. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It had to be the Government of the People's Party who has provided the nuclear radiation therapy and medicine service, which is in the period of installation and testing and which will be operational immediately. The People's Group is for equity and equality in the provision of services for all Greeks and Galicians, and that's why the register has been promoted, and that's why we call for transparency in the presentation and evaluation of the data in this Parliament. And, Mrs. Solla, the questions you ask about the record I suppose you can ask the board when they come to present it. And I think the data presented today is technical data and something else is political evaluation. We can't accept Mrs Acuña's amendment at the first point and we wanted to compromise the second one, but it wasn't possible. We agree with Mrs Martínez's amendment – which has just requested the same as our initiative – we want to save time, so we ask that the presentation be made before the end of April. And that's why we've dealt with a text that includes this temporary limitation, which we've already reached the services of the House, signed by Mrs Martínez, because of her abandonment of this whole. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u298	Thank you, Mr. Núñez. We therefore move on to the vote on non-law proposals. We begin with the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Business and Public Administrations in connection with the process of catastrophic regularization which is being developed in Galicia, as well as the actions to be carried out in this regard. I was awaiting a transaction -- but let me finish this, for now -- with the People's Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If they have the transaction, either read it or... read it, read it! Is it long? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u299	It's pretty long, and as you like...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u300	Well, give it to her, give it to her.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u301	...unless the voices want – I understand that we all agree – and I simply put it down.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u302	Pay her, pay her. Perfect. Thank you very much. We therefore voted in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Ministry of Business and Public Administration in relation to the process of catastrophic regularization that is developing in Galicia, as well as the actions to be carried out in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u303	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Ms Maria do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the development by the Galician Council of a Plan of Women's Employment and a Plan of Co-responsibility, as well as the measures to be demanded by the Central Government to promote women's integration into the labour market in conditions. You have already announced to Mrs Adán that you accept the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left as an addendum. We therefore put to the vote this non-law proposal. We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other Members, on the elaboration by the Galician Council of a plan for women's employment and a plan for co-responsibility, as well as the measures to be demanded by the Central Government to promote the integration of women into the labour market in equal conditions The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u304	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galaga de Lefta, on the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Beiras Torrado and Ms. Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the granting of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, de Vigo, as well as the financial assistance provided to the concessionary company. Mr Beiras has already stated that he accepted the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We therefore vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galaga de Lefta, at the initiative of D. Xosé Manuel Beiras Torrado and Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the granting of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, de Vigo, as well as the financial assistance provided to the concessionary company The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u305	We are now voting on the initiative of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga, on the actions to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to the consideration of Álvaro Cunqueiro as a franchist writer reflected in the report requested by the Madrid Council to a group of experts from the Complutensian University for the possible withdrawal of his name from the municipal farm. It seems that, according to the rapporteur, the amendment of the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales is accepted and the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Pedro Puy Fraga, on the performances to be carried out at Junta de Galicia in connection with the consideration of Álvaro Cunqueiro as a franchisor writer reflected in the report requested by the Madrid Council to a group of experts at the University Complutense for the possible withdrawal of his name from the municipal estate. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 63; abstentions, 6. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u306	We now vote for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and five other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in relation to the protection of the unemployed. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out in Galicia regarding the protection of the unemployed The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u307	We are now voting on the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, on the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the action to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to the appeal brought before the Supreme Court with regard to the specific supplement, or equivalent concept, of the two extra wages of the year 2013 of all staff members of the central services of the Autonomic Administration. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members, on the action to be taken in relation to the appeal brought before the Supreme Court with regard to the specific supplement, or equivalent concept for the workers, of the two extra wages of the year 2013 of all staff of the central departments of the autonomous administration The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u308	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the initiative of Mr Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the change of destination by the Galician Board of Resources for Intensive Aquaculture in the budgets of the year 2016 for aid for the seafood sector, mythology or artisanal fishing. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the change of destination by the Galician Union of resources allocated for intensive aquaculture in the budgets of 2016 to aid for the marine sector, the craftsmanship or fishing The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. This proposal is therefore adopted unanimously, not by law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u309	Yes, Mrs. Acuña. Give a voice to Mrs. Acuña's chair, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u310	Very briefly, please, if you read the transaction text to find out what you are going to vote on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u311	I've got it here, I'll read it now. The text dealt with the Joint Group that made me come up says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to present before the end of April the data corresponding to the Greek Record of acute myocardial infarction, the conclusions of the Health Council on the basis of them and the timely measures needed in accordance with the results of the Regaliam, the improvement of the attention of people with acute myocardial infarction, for their debate in the Galician Parliament." This is the text. We therefore put this compromised text to the vote. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and seven other Members, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia, in the Galician Parliament, of the data corresponding to the Greek Register of acute myocardial infarction The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; abstentions, 29. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u312	We suspended the session until 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u313	We begin with the fifth item on the agenda, of interpellations, with the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Ms. María Carmen Acuña do Campo. Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and three other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the impact of the entry into force of the Royal Nursing Prescription Decree
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u314	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u315	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and good afternoon also for the nursing unions and nursing schools, which have to be following us via telematics because they were not allowed to attend this debate. Counselor, good afternoon. How you have public health! It's noted that of the three interpellations we have today, the three are for you: privatization, neglect of abortions contemplated by the law and the mess that you have mounted with the prescription of nursing. It is clear that the health management of the Feijóo PP in Galicia and Mr. Rajoy in Madrid – which is already finished at last – makes water everywhere. The 2009 Medicine Act established that the only professions capable of prescribing drugs were medicine, dentistry and podology. But in addition, in that law it was already stated that among the competences of the nursing was the prescription of all medicines and health products related to their professional exercise that were not subject to medical prescription. And in the case of those drugs and health products that needed prescription, and whenever they were related to their activity, nursing could recommend them, and also apply them, following the collection in protocols and clinical and care practice guides, remaining the law – that's true –, like many others, subject to later regulation. This incomplete legal framework, in everyday practice, often put the nurse in a situation that we say is an allegation, so the Socialist Government has already produced a draft in 2011. With the PP's arrival this draft was suppressed, and it wasn't until 2013, two years later, when it was resumed. So what the Government did was call the nursing schools and the union Satse, all with a lot of candy, a lot of dish and, of course, a lot of Mr. Rajoy's picture. Two years it took him to arrive at the Interterritorial Council the new decree fruit of these negotiations. And that text was informed favourably by the Council of the State and approved by the General Commission of State Secretaries on 21 October 2015. But, Counsellor, surprisingly two days later, on 23 October, a different text was presented for approval at the Council of Ministers. Between 21 and 23 the decree was unilaterally modified by the Government, betraying those who so far were its partners, who helped him in writing. By the way, in two days they had time to modify the text, but in two years they didn't have time to pass it through the Department of Equality, and the royal decree uses an incomprehensible, and also absurd, macho language to refer to an eminently feminine collective. And about that change of decree, in the last minute and from back to back to nursing, that's what we want to ask you today. It is said, Counselor, that the reason for this change must be sought in Galicia. I don't know if this is true. Was that change made by following instructions from some promenade or from some promulger from Galicia, or was it perhaps by the mandate of the most illustrious and retired medical collective? If it's Galicia's fault, you must know. What is clear is that this change was not minor, but that it completely changed what was being pursued by that decree. Because if what was meant was to remove the nursing from the situation of an allegedity in which the daily work, the rule of taking out, in fact, removed the nursing from that situation, but to place it directly in a situation of illegality. With this change, nursing can't prescribe until you have a special accreditation or even drugs and health products that don't need medical prescription. And in the case of drugs subject to prescription, you can't use them as you came so far, following the protocols and the guides, since the decree also annuls all those guides and all those protocols that we had so far counted on, and orders, also surprisingly, that they are prepared within the International Council and require that they be approved by the ministry. Consequently, Mr. Counsellor, the insurance of civil responsibility, both those professionals and those of the council itself, remains in the air, not to comply with and adapt the professionals and the daily work to that new legislation. You can't make it obvious that the decree has been in force since exactly the 24th of last December, Christmas Day. And four days later, what a chance! of voting for general elections. I don't know if you are aware that right now, and with that amendment of the real decree, we have all the nursing against the ropes, and all the health activities that are carried out daily, both in public health and in private health, outside the law. But not only that, but also, with that wonderful management that they made of the royal decree, they managed to confront the medical collective with the nursing group; the negotiators betrayed, with the Government; the 12 autonomous communities and all the unions who requested the derogation of the decree, with the ministry; and all health disgruntled with the High Court for not having decreed the preventive paralysis of that decree. Counsellor, are you aware of the impact that this measure has on the day-to-day primary nursing facility? Right now, and with that Vigilant decree, they can't do their job, which is nothing else to take care of. Take care, for example, of chronically ill people. They can't make the sintrom, they can't make the cures. And because you can't – say what you want – they couldn't do the Vigilant decree or put a vaccine, because they couldn't ask if there were cough, if there was a fever, if it was allergic to the egg, because that would require a diagnosis, yes, yes, and therefore it would need a prescriber. Are you aware of the impact you have on the day-to-day hospital nursing that royal decree? Counsellor, with that decree in force, hospital nursing can't take a heparinized pathway, he couldn't put an oxygen mask without having the stalker next door. Well, in the face of this situation, and with the desperate Welsh nurse demanding you through the sectoral tables solutions to work, what did you do? Well, look, first hide, look the other way and, absolutely, don't do anything for almost three months. And then, with no courage, with much fear, you didn't meet with the trade union organizations or give them the explanations they claimed, but you just sent an information note; an information note, Mr. Counsellor, which doesn't solve anything, in which you suggest you ignore the decree. I don't know if you're aware that you're asking you not to comply with the law. Our questions are asked in writing. Of some we already have the answer because time has given us the answer, since it's February 5th. But, please, I'm going to ask you something, give us clear answers. We need to know these answers, but above all they need nursing, a collective and some professionals from here I use to thank their daily work, who do not hesitate to continue to work even though, thanks to their real law decree, to do it outside the law. I don't repeat the questions, but I do expect your answers. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u316	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u317	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Acuña, the truth is we're always the same. We start with what, if we do, we do, and if we don't, because it's not worth it either. I also greet the collectives, the nursing schools, nursing associations, unions, because we have gathered all my team and myself with many of them precisely to try to resolve the interpretation of a royal decree that, as you know, is not the actual decree of the Health Council, but it is a real decree that has been negotiating the Government of the nation with professional schools, we have not been in those negotiations. But if I have to tell you that, of course, we understand – we take it, of course, by saying the time I take as advisor – that nursing work is fundamental to the system. We have great professionals in all fields, and nursing, for many years, has allowed us to continue building our health system. This is a complex subject for many reasons. Among other things, because it touches the competences of different health groups working together as a team in the day-to-day life of our health system. It's important, therefore, not to create a problem where there wasn't before. You were talking about confrontation. It's true that there are people who want there to be a confrontation between professional groups; we, of course, don't. The administration of medicines is a competition inherent in the performance of nursing work, however, indication or prescription is a more complex competition and its regulation must be rigorous. The main thing is that the rule has clear benefits for the population, first of all, but also for the optional and the nurses themselves. It should be noted that regulation of the prescription of nursing in Spain includes a development of decades. In 2003, with UNRWA, the free movement of healthcare professionals opens up a space for reflection on the differences between competences in different countries, for example on the prescription of nursing. Different entities in the health field, mainly professional schools, scientific societies and nursing unions, were active tools within the claim of the role of nursing in the health system, promoting and developing their competences and responsibilities and visibility. The regulation of the nurse's prescription was a demand for such professional groups, considering it to be a very important tool to legalize a situation that is part of working life and which contributes to improving the work of the health system. The amendment of the law that allows nurses to act in the field of prescription begins in Law 28/2009, amending Law 29/2006, guarantees and rational use of medicines and health products; a rule that regulates the performance of nursing in the field of prescription. The publication of this law took place after it was adopted by the plenary session on 22 December 2009, with 342 votes in favour and one abstention, with the aim of reaching parliamentary consensus. But at the end of 2010, thanks to Royal Decree 1,718/2010, on the medical prescription and order of hospital nursing dispensation, it is when we speak openly about the role of nursing professionals in the use and dispensing of drugs. In this royal decree the requirements that must meet the recipes of the National Health System are established and reference is made for the first time to nursing professionals. Thus, additional fifth provision indicates that the income should include the data of the accredited nurse for the indication or authorisation of dispensation instead of the prescription data that are part of the medical prescription. Then, on December 23, 2015, as I well remember, after a discussion process and the process of something more than two years – as I said, in the case of the Socialist Party, I always find that same phrase: we were going to do it; we left the draft on the table but we didn't finish it. It took eight years of government, but the last hour, as always, we would. That's what's left. And here, after a negotiation in which, as I said, the Health Council was not present, it was in a national field, this Royal Decree 953/2015 was established, so it regulates the indication, use and authorization of dispensation of medicines and human health products by nurses. The purpose of the standard is to regulate, on the one hand, the professional performance of nurses in the field of indication, use, authorisation and dispensation of medicinal products and human health products related to their professional exercise, as well as the procedure for validating protocols and clinical clinical practice guides by the Directorate-General for Public Health, Quality and Innovation. And on the other hand, to set, with the participation of the corresponding collective organizations, the general criteria, specific requirements and procedures for the accreditation of nurses, both those responsible for general care and those responsible for specialized care. Ask yourself what position the Government will take before the entry into force of this royal decree. The answer is obvious: to take into account, as it cannot be otherwise, the current legislation and legality, because there were other autonomous communities that made statements that they were going to present resources and so on, but they are in exactly the same case as the Autonomous Community of Greece. He also asks what instructions we have given from this office to Sergas staff for the implementation and follow-up of Sergas. Well, on March 1, an information note is issued on Royal Decree 954/2015 of October 23, so the indication, use and authorisation of the dispensation of medicinal products and medical products for human use by nurses is regulated. I'm going to remind you what you said in this speech that talks about that the counselor what he did was hide himself for a while and that he was coward, I think it was the words. Look, hiding out I don't think, what happens is that we work, we don't work in front of the photo or facebook or twitter, but we meet with the collectives and try to find solutions. An interpretation that asks us in every respect, too, seems to be, for your part, but once a resolution comes out... by the way, I don't know if the advisor is a coward, but he signs the briefing note. I'd like some other people to sign press notes! I sign the briefing notes, therefore, cowardlylyly to the right. We do an interpretation to prevent people – as you are trying to do right now – from facing the collectives that have been working together for a long time, and that teamwork, not individuals, teamwork, I think we must preserve it among all. That note, which for you is a coward, was, for example, well received by the Galician Association of Family and Community Nursing. You can check it out on your website, which says: The Galician Association of Family and Community Nursing values this information note from the Health Council, which finally sheds light on many doubts about our daily work. Well, it's an opinion like yours. I think, of course, he values it. He also asks about legal responsibilities, and if we consider that the Welsh nursing is working with the appropriate legal guarantees after the adoption of the decree. We understand that it is, and more with the information note. In addition, the civil and heritage responsibility of the nursing professionals of the Galego Health Service is covered in terms and conditions established in the subscribed policy for this effect. Anyone can consult this policy on the website of the Business Council, in the documents section. He also asks about therapeutic guides and protocols, and we consider it appropriate for the ministry to develop clinical guidelines and protocols. By the way, you say the Government has disappeared. The government is in office, but of course it can act and I think it's going to act. And I think it would be interesting, because from then on, with that negotiation with the collectives they were doing, they came to the real decree. I have to make it clear, however, that the decree is limited to guidelines and protocols relating to the indication of the use and authorization by nurses of medicinal products subject to medical prescription, not to the set of clinical guidelines and protocols. In addition, in law 28 – which I referred to earlier – it was established for such protocols that were of joint elaboration, agreed with the collegial organizations of doctors and nurses and validated by the Quality Agency of the National Health System. The Ministry of Health and Social Policy with the participation of the collective organizations, that is, not unilaterally drawn up by the ministry. As indicated in Chapter III of Decree 954, the drafting of protocols and guidelines for clinical practice will be carried out within the Standing Pharmacy Commission of the National Health System Interterritorial Council, which will include, among others, three members representing autonomous communities. In any case, as indicated in the information note, while the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u318	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u319	...don't say instructions for the development of the application of the royal decree and progress in its implementation to preserve its levels of quality, in order to ensure this normal health care in the provision of health care in health institutions and institutions, it is necessary to specify... and that's what the information note is, what you criticize. For the moment, nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u320	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u321	Thank you, President. I want to begin by clarifying and stressing that, indeed, the Socialist Government has left a decree, a draft decree. made and also made and subjected to public exposure. And I want to clarify and emphasize that the decree we're talking about is not what's been negotiated, because I repeat, you've changed it in the last minute and unilaterally. Look, Counselor, I'll be people, but today we're talking about the nursing staff, I don't think it's that hard to say. I suppose communications coming out of the board should be signed. Come on, I say! Look, why don't you go through an absurd and impossible-to-be decree, as, by the way, they did in other autonomous communities, when you're also asking for such a brave information note – you should, in order to ratify that courage, tell him directly to whom you asked for the information – that you don't meet? Maybe you don't use this decree because it's in the background with him? Well, see, if so, if you are consistent, speak to your friend ministry and ask you to at least make a transitional provision so that the decree is not applicable until all the professional nursing people have that accreditation that is now required to you, I insist, even for drugs that are not subject to medical prescription and until the ministry prepares all those guides and protocols that we need every health care daily to be able to function and that that decree has cancelled. We don't like that royal amended decree at all. We think it is an intolerable retreat and that it also prevents the normal functioning of public health and – I insist – private. Which also poses a legal risk to all professionals. And your briefing note, Counselor, doesn't solve anything. Besides, I have to remind you that nursing is an autonomous profession, which requires four years of university studies in which training is already given in clinical pharmacology, so you don't understand the need for that additional training, and much less, Counsellor, that this training is exclusive to the state. But where did he go? Look, tell us, who's going to conduct these accreditation courses? Will it be free, Counselor, or is it more business? Will it be in working hours? What if someone doesn't want or can't do it? Can you possibly assume a pay increase for the nursing staff to make them? To remind you, too, that Nursing works in the service of society, Counsellor, the care of the sick and the sick, and not the service of the medical class, as it seems to emerge from that decree following the change. But, above all, what I want to ask you today is that, with this bravery of what you do, you leave us very clear here if the Welsh nurse has legal guarantees in this situation and you can count on civil liability insurance when you're acting outside the legal regulations that regulate your professional exercise. Tell us what you're driving and what protocols you're using now. Explain to us that our professionals believe that all those guides and protocols should now be developed – as you have acknowledged here – by others and approved by the State. And, above all, tell us if your information note is asking or ordering you not to respect the law. I'm afraid Sergas cannot ignore the legal reality that imposes this royal decree invoking – as you do in your information note – the common sense of professionals and professionals. Look, if you had common sense, I'd be asking for a derogation from the decree. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, as I began, thanking you again for that work, for that generosity and for that responsibility that you are showing our country's nursing by addressing the health needs of citizenship to your own legal security. Why polio, why odontology yes and why would I get sick? Answer us, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u322	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u323	Thank you, President. The truth is, to come here and say what the role of the Health Council is on this subject, what I don't understand is that I haven't commented on a paragraph of the information note. Did you do this in the next intervention? Okay. The truth is, I don't understand it, but I'm going to talk about the information note because I think it's a subject that has been asked for and, of course, worked and looking for a solution to the real problems. We respect very much – as I said at first – and I didn't say it at first, I've been working in health for many years and I've always worked with nursing teams, and their function is fundamental, nobody's arguing for anything, we're needing it. The last question you know perfectly well is that it enters the law, the podologists', right? Entering the law, it's not a subject that we're inventing right now here. But if you tell him, in order to clarify the subject of the information note, that, according to the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court and the law itself, he identifies himself as a professional responsible for the diagnosis to introduce treatment and his prescription to the doctor, as well as dentist and podologist in their respective areas of action. I'm saying this is in the Supreme Court case. We're not talking about law anymore, is that the Supreme Court has come into this and said so, it's not our invention. That's why the doctor should always record it in clinical history through a standardised document. Because it's also true – and that's also what the nursing collective wanted – that there are times when the optional doesn't need this, and he must need it. You must need it because of the responsibility of the doctor's work and the nursing work. They're security things for everyone, for everything you're working on, and, of course, security especially for the patient, which for us is the ultimate end of the health system. Whereever the prescriber has left – as he should – in clinical history, and in his case in the corresponding prescription, records of medicines to administer to the patient, the nursing professionals will use and administer for adequate preparation of the patient to perform certain complementary tests or therapeutic indication performed. I say this is by law and validated by the Supreme. It's not an invention. In the face of a state of need, the healthcare professional, within its competence, must in any event act for the protection of the health, integrity and life of the patient. In emergency situations, the performance of the care team will suit its usual practice, whether in primary care, outpatient care, or hospital care. The performance must be guided and inspired by both the deontological sense and the good common sense. This is all that goes on in the briefing note, which tries to clarify those doubts that there may be. All of this, as I say, without prejudice to the necessary written record, of both the care data and the diagnostic and therapeutic information. To say that Royal Decree 954/2015 is a basic standard. He used to say why he wasn't being challenged by the Autonomous Community of Galicia. Well, as mentioned at the outset, there are many autonomous communities that have challenged and did not make any information or clarification notes, so I understand that the situation in these territories is much more complicated. We do what the practical level corresponds to, and I think what we exactly try is that there is no collective confrontation in the day-to-day world, when this has never happened and must not happen. There are people who want to burn and the collectives face up to it. I think it's negative, and we have to be over it. As I say, this Royal Decree provides that nurses and other professionals may use, indicate and authorize to dispense both medicinal products and health products for human use, in accordance with the provisions laid down by the legislation itself for the exercise of this competition. In any case, it is required that the nurse obtains both in the areas of general and specialized care, an accreditation. Mrs. Acuña, it might be that in the negotiation this was precisely requested by the nursing group, it might be that way. So I don't think it's about the station or any other medical group that this is about, but it might be about a request from the nursing group, for better activity in that collective. In all cases, it is required that the nurse have, both in the field of general care, as a specialist, an accreditation, and that we have protocols and clinical practice guides validated for the entire National Health System. The reality shows, today, that for the presence of accredited nurses the deadline granted by the Royal Decree for the resolution of this procedure is six months, as specified in article 10; and to have consensual and validated protocols inexorably has to pass over a time which the norm itself foresees. I wanted to finish, because I say that the fundamental thing is that we are trying to help collectives in practice, both nursing and medical, and I mean that this information note has been issued in order to ensure the greatest safety of patients and the quality of health services, promoting the best protocolized exercise of professional competence, the security of all processes, and looking for the effectiveness of the treatments put in place in the face of possible doubts arising from the application of this Royal Decree and until the forecasts are completed. I think it is important – as I said – especially...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u324	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u325	...to deal with the collectives, that there is no confrontation because it is treated from plants to other levels. Every day is where they have to work, and they keep working, doing as well as they do all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u326	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores' appeal by G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the derivation of patients from public health in Galicia to private centres
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u327	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u328	Thank you, President. Yes, good afternoon, Counselor. Second interpeleration of the afternoon. Second public health alarm. The People's Party is practising a policy of cuts and demolition of public health, it's a finding. At this moment with you at most responsible, but following the ideological decision of the People's Party in general and President Núñez Feijóo in particular. You, even though you came in principle with another heel, the only thing you're doing is exactly the same health policy as your predecessor. It's normal, because it belongs to a People's Party that what you're doing in an accelerated way is to turn our country's public health into a business for a few corners; it's to give decision-making capacity to fully external agents, not only to public health, but external to the country itself, which is already tremendous. That deterioration, you're doing it through leaving the infrastructure, the lack of human and material resources, and so you'll have the excuse for privatization. They do this through constant mechanisms of deterring the use of public health, and I'm going to list three. There are others, some more subtle, but there are others. The first of these mechanisms is waiting lists. You, the People's Party, make a health policy that makes there infamous waiting lists, which makes there are Welsh and Welsh that are on waiting lists for months and years; for months and years, Mr. Almuña. The second mechanism is the derivations to private health, theoretically the result of the first one. There are a lot of waiting lists and, as a result of these large waiting lists, you, instead of providing public health with resources to soften these waiting lists, what they do is to pass a law on health insurance that gives you is a standard rule that, instead of promoting and empowering public health, you can legally derive patients from private health. How do they do it? Before, sort of trying to look like they didn't. But lately it's already in a completely bare way. Tell patients directly if they want to be treated in private. When people have the prescription of an optional that tells them that they have to be subject to an intervention or a diagnostic test, they're put on the waiting list, and when it turns out that a week, a month, and a month, they're going to ask and what they're told directly is whether they want to be treated in private health. It is the administration itself to which it has already, in a clear way, promoted that derivation. If accepted, your case will be resolved immediately. And if they don't accept, they disappear from the waiting lists. If they protest, they say they refused to be treated in private and that's why they're not called from the public, simple mechanisms. The Nationalist Block Galego has come up with a number of complaints made by individuals before the activities of the Galego Health Service to proceed with the removal of them from the surgical waiting list if they refuse to be attended in a hospital other than what they have to refer to in public health. I'm going to give you some examples. A patient on a waiting list has been refused surgery for more than six months, in this case of hemorrhoids, in private. He's out of work, with a work ILT, and with important bleedings. Well, after six months, he's still waiting for them to call him because he doesn't want to be cared for in a private center. Second case. A bowel-volved patient who's been waiting for over a year to be called to operate. When he's going to complain, he says he refused to go to a private center and that that's why they don't call her, when this person what he did was to express his preference for a public center. One year. Assumable, isn't it, Mr. Almuinho? Good. Another patient, who offered to intervene in private health, a carpal tunnel syndrome, and accepts. A person whose hands are fundamental to his work, and he accepts because he's been waiting for time. Indeed, it was operated in four days. Months in the waiting list in the public, as soon as they derive it from a private center, within four days it is intervened. And what is he with in the waiting room? Well, there were a lot of people talking to each other, and what did they tell them? Well, the same thing that came from the public to the private to be taken care of now. That, if they went to private, what they were told was that they would be cared for already; and, indeed, they are taken care of already. From these situations, several optional professionals move me, they have an average of 3 or 4 a week, patients who are derived from private health. If you multiply 3 or 4 per optional, by the thousands of optional people in Galicia's public health, you give a considerable number, right, Counselor? Give a considerable number. Well, what do they derive from the private? Well, usually smaller pathology processes: carpal tunnels, hemorrhoids, yellowishes, varicose veins. Pathologies with little post-intervention complication, with an investment not very important by the private entity and without much need of large infrastructure. A low-cost health care. Much performance and little cost. And in many cases even if it is giving that, patients resulting from private health care, their subsequent follow-up, including rehabilitations, consultations or removal points, try to make it public health care to take care of these processes, when in those agreements it is established that it should be the private entity that handles the process from the beginning to the end. And don't touch your head, Counselor. Look, SOS Public Health of Compostela, also faced with complaints from people who were going through this, addressed the Ministry of the Health Area to explain to them what the situation was, where the clinical process ended when a patient was derived from public health to private; the time of subsequent rehabilitation, follow-up of possible infections, etc. Well, this was done in October 2015, the Health Service of Compostela just sent a circular to its faculty telling them that processes derived from concerted centres should end up in these centres, that is, they should include all derivatives. These centers are obliged to provide all necessary services to the discharge of the patients that Sergas derives from them. While the discharge does not occur, Sergas does not again assume responsibility for the patients. For this reason, when the concentrated center indicates to the patient the need for a review of the process, which was attended to in that center, the said review should be carried out by the patient. Why is this circular sent if it was so clear? If it wasn't happening, why are you going to report something that's nonsense? Because it was happening, and it's still happening, Counselor. Because it was happening, and it's still happening. With which, high performance with few investment needs, with little expenditure and basic equipment needs. Quick attention, without delay, in private, in front of eternal waiting lists in the public. That's what the People's Party council is selling, with you in front, to the Greeks and to the Greeks right now. And what's the third mechanism? Well, they still use a third mechanism, the deterrent mechanism through management agreements, management agreements that translate into productivity payments to professionals, right? That's within the management agreements, which professionals, if they achieve a given productivity, have an economic compensation. That's right, isn't it? Good. What do you do? To primary care doctors and doctors, they were evaluated by the concept "Derivation to consultations on hospital specialities." They can't exceed 9%. With which, what's going on? Trying not to exceed that limit. If they don't get over it, they have compensation; if they don't, they're penalized. In turn, hospital specialists are being taught to discharge the Primary. I mean, finish up as soon as the evolutionary follow-up in the hospital, sending patients back to Primary Care. It is also contemplated in those management agreements. Hospital emergency professionals are valued for not sending patients to specialized consultations. And at the same time, they also encourage caretakers to enter as many patients as possible. I mean, a policy of deterring the use of public health, Counsellor. It turns out to be an incentive for professionals to deter the use of public health. Meanwhile, the growing dynamics of derivation to concerted centers. So, what we ask you today, counsellor, are the waiting lists hanging Sergas on his website a real number waiting to be intervened by some pathology, or does Sergas manage other data that doesn't make public? I'd like to know if those who are hung on the website...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u329	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u330	...–finished– of the counseling, of Sergas, are the only data there is, or if the counseling has other lists. If it is true that if they do not agree to be treated in private centres, they are removed from the waiting list. What are the criteria used to do so? Gravity of the case, structural waiting list, if they will already be called. What are the criteria, Counselor? What is the situation for patients who, while on a waiting list for surgical intervention or diagnostic tests, do not agree to be derived from private centres? What's your situation? The rest is written. I hope you can answer these specific questions that I'm asking you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, thank you for trusting me for at least three or four months. As I've been five, now he doesn't trust me anymore, and I'm going to follow my predecessor. The derivation of patients to private centers to perform diagnostic tests or surgical interventions is of course not a new fact; it is carried out in all Spanish public health systems, regardless of their political colour. I would like to remind you that the General Health Act of 14/1986, in its Article 90.1, states that "public health administrations, within their respective competences, may establish concerts for the provision of health services with the means attached to them. For this purpose, the various public administrations shall take into account the optimal use of their own health resources." Moreover, in point 4 of the same article – we always defend it, we all say that the General Health Act is a great law, I think it is not the People's Party but we all defend it – says that "public administrations within their scope will set the minimum, basic and common conditions applicable to concerts referred to in the preceding paragraphs. Economic conditions are established on the basis of existing cost modules previously established and revised by the Administration." Your Honor, Galicia's public health system cannot exclude health care concerts from private centres. The Galician Health Act itself, adopted in this Parliament at the time of the Bipartite – I believe you were a member of the Government – recognises the importance of the private sector of health care as complementary and subsidiary to the public health system of the autonomous community. Of course, we have a model of care planning of the activity to be developed in concerted centres that originate in integrated management structures, establishing an assistance coordination from the public system that guarantees health outcomes. In addition, the importance of this sector in Galicia's business and job creation must be stressed. In the management of our lists of diagnostic or surgical tests, in addition to meeting our patients with quality and safety, we have another objective, which is only to comply with the Health Insurance Act. As you know, your article 5 sets a 60-day waiting period for surgical operations and 45 for consultations and diagnostic tests. These times would apply to patients who require scheduled and non-emergency health care in the public health system of Galicia, and to the procedures and clinical situations that are determined. If, in the face of the impossibility of interviewing within the maximum response time in the reference hospital, if you offer the patient to go to another center, as you say, you are absolutely sure that in this center the assistance is accredited by the Health Council, applying the same criteria as that which can be demanded from a public center. That anecdote that counts on you, of course, is not what to do, and if there is any case, logically the measures are taken. It's clear the process, what it understands and what it costs as well. It's transparent and public, it's agreements that are usually signed for several years, but always with full transparency. It is also important to point out that the procedure of referral from a patient to another hospital ensures, in any case, its follow-up, continuity of the care process and the transfer of the clinical information necessary for its treatment. In the event that the patient rejects the alternative he offers and decides to continue waiting to be operated at his source centre – a situation that is the subject of one of his questions – the right to guarantee maximum response times will not apply; however, the rights of seniority that were acquired in the central waiting list will be respected. Your Honor, derivation is another tool that allows us to be agile in responding to the needs of our citizens. It allows us to reduce our waiting lists without losing quality, because to the concerted centres where we derive from patients, we meet the same requirements as to our centers. The waiting list, and in particular the surgical waiting list, is an instrument for managing hospital care activity based on a complex information system. He's headed to give an axile response depending on the priority that each patient has, and not just his waiting time. That's how our professionals understood it and incorporated it into their way of providing health care to our population. The waiting list will thus be managed with explicit and homogeneous criteria, where clinical priority guides decisions, and not just wait time, as we indicated earlier. It's about responding to our citizens according to their situation and gravity, which is what we've done since 2009, when we set priorities to be able to respond precisely to patients' needs. The results are there. Right now, with the last data we have from the waiting lists, on December 31, 2015, priority 1 was far below the target, which is thirty days, both in the system set –18.9 days on average – and in each of the EOXI. In 2009, by the way, when I ruled the Bipartite, it was 28.3 days; the difference is between 18.9 and 28.3. Priority 2, the preferred priority, which is the one that is serious without having a vital impact, was also under 60 days; the objective that we set ourselves, in particular, 55.9, under – as I say – 60 days. There's other objective data I'd like to add. A title entitled Austerity and health privatization in times of crisis has recently been published in the scientific journal Gaceta Sanitaria. "Are there any differences between autonomous communities?", this is the title of the article – if you want, then make a copy of this article." It is conducted by researchers from the University of Basque Country and the research group of social determinants of health and demographic change. It is the first comprehensive review published of the evolution of so-called austerity and privatization policies, which you as title initiates, and it is also very typical of the House to talk about privatization in the field of health in Spain. This is an independent study, and the goal of work is to analyze the possible differences between autonomous communities in relation to their political management in times of crisis. In the study, each autonomous community reviewed the change produced between 2008 and 2013 in three dimensions. One of them was the so-called degree of health privatization, measured by the change in the percentage of public health expenditure devoted to hiring private centres and the proportion of public hospital beds in relation to private people. This is the article – then, if you like, I'll give you a copy – published a few days ago. Well, if you look at the results of the publication, you can see that Galicia is one of six communities that have reduced the expenditure to fund private centers, and also one of the four that have increased the proportion of public beds in hospitals. What is measurable is not opinable, Your Honor. In the light of the data, it seems that the constant accusation that we favor privatization is not too much adapted to reality. You used to say at first that President Feijóo, the cuts and all that... well, if there are more public beds than private after this period of austerity, it means that President Feijóo inaugurated a large hospital in Vigo, we are in the expansion of the hospital of Salnès, of the hospital of Ourense, of the hospital of Coruña, and that, of course, is increasing beds and increasing spending on health matters; but not private expenditure, but public spending for the public service. For the moment, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u333	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u334	If you want, Mr. Almuña, we can make an exchange of articles. I also have a bunch of articles that leave Galicia's public health in quite a bad place. I also give you information, if you like, that from the turn of the People's Party to the Government of Unity more than 600 hospital beds have been closed in public centers. That's measurable, it's not opinable, is it? No, data from you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you want, what is measurable and not opinionable is that health cuts have been reduced by more than 12.3%; measurable, not opinionable. That in the year that ended, in the 2015 budgets, the public health budgets of the Galician Union were the ones most cut off from the health of the Spanish state. Do you want me to keep giving you data? And then, whenever you want, we're left to exchange articles, which are also totally in the opposite direction. Look, the problem is not that here is a classic of the House talking about privatization, which is very typical is... it's not that it's typical, is that the practice of the Government of Galicia is the practice of the privatization of health. If it weren't for that practice, then here in this House we wouldn't talk about privatization. And you also know it's very typical and classic? That you don't answer anything you're asked. I had in writing specific questions, I asked him some more verbally, and you didn't answer either. You didn't answer either. Look, I already know there's a vigorous legislation that allows them to do the derivations. And as there was not enough, they approved the Health Insurance Act, guarantees. Of course! Because it wasn't enough for him and because, legally, they couldn't do those drifts like they're doing them now. So if the law doesn't apply to them, change it, indeed, so that there's a law that favors them. Of course! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that if it were illegal, they'd be on trial. It's just that we're talking about political options, Mr. Almuña. You say these drifts allow them to agilely reduce waiting lists. And don't you think it would be much more agile – but much more – to use public health resources to reduce those waiting lists? Have you ever shut down infamous hospital beds? Quit having surgical closures? What if you've done an infamous ERE in public health, destroying thousands of public health jobs, almost 3,000, since that rest rate? Your Honor, don't you come to me now that the replenishment rate has already been recovered in 2015, and everything that has been lost before? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It would be quite easier, more logical and much cheaper. Look, at any rate, I ask you again: are the lists waiting for Sergas to hang on his website? Is this a real number waiting to be intervened by some pathology? or does Sergas manage other data? or is there any other data? If it is true that if they do not agree to be derived from a private center, they will be removed from the waiting list. Those are very easy questions, yes or no? I make it easy, yes or no? Well, you told me here, that it's recorded, yes or no, on these easy questions, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's the situation with the patients, waiting list, who don't accept? It's a very easy question. How many patients have Sergas been drawn to private centers in the last five years? How much? How much did it cost Sergas? What is the breakdown by pathologies and centers? What are these private centers that are leading the lion's head from that health drift, Counselor? Those are very easy questions to answer. Besides, if they're as easy, as their priority, the priority of their department, they must have this data very much in mind, because they're the priority they play every day. So I insist that these are really easy questions. I'm telling you, indeed, that the PP is pursuing a policy of cuts and demolition of public health. That Sergas systematically cuts resources into public health, while increasing those for private health. Make the waiting lists look like they're unrecognizable, unless you answer me now and say no. If you tell me no, those published on the website are the real ones, then I'll shut up. Darkness, opacity, is what surrounds private health drifts, counsellor, and waiting lists. Why don't they want to make the data public? What are they hiding? What is this terrible reality that they hide and that they don't make it easy in writing when asked or answered here when we came to ask? Why don't you give that data if you're convinced that this is a mechanism, that nobody's going to have a problem and that they're going to have the announcement of the Greeks and the Greeks? Why don't they make the data public? Why don't you let everyone know what you're doing with the resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u335	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u336	...with taxes, from the Greeks and the Greeks? Because it's the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks, you don't get them out of your pocket. You have an obligation to manage them, so you also have an obligation to account here for how you manage those resources and you have an obligation to answer those questions. And I also want you to answer the reason why no one is in the people's valet, Counselor. Why don't you create the area health councils that have been demanded here in this House, which are covered by the Welsh Health Act, and which you don't believe? And why – in the face of a complaint about SOS Public Health – takes four requirements to Compostela Management and the board to provide you with the data regarding the non-constitution of the Compostela Health Council...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u337	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u338	...and the poor quality of the needles used by people with diabetes, especially children, four requirements, and the management's counseling don't answer?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u339	Finish it, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u340	Why is it that none of the people's valet, the people's valet appointed by the People's Party?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u341	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u342	Thank you very much. I hope, please, that you will answer my questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Thank you. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u344	Thank you, President. Mrs. Prado, there's a lot of paper but it didn't show me any; I have it here to copy it at the end of the act. Look, I'm going to answer the three mechanisms that you think you have this board to act on the delay and the derivations of patients: First mechanism, waiting list. It is a mechanism that – as I say – does not exist in Galicia or Spain, exists in all public health systems in Europe, logically. Why? Because it's a growing demand. The important thing is that we respond, and, as I said in the previous intervention, we realize them in a chronological order but mainly by priorities. That's what we're doing with the urgent priorities, priorities 2, and using all the means we can, that the law lets us use. And as I also said, within all patients, those who are offered the alternative of a concerted center are still in the patient register and they don't lose that age. But before I said something very interesting, I was told that we gave the concertians the easiest things, the ones that cost nothing. Obviously, because I don't know if you'd prefer that we derive heart surgery from the concerted centers. I think the German public system has to do the most complicated cases there. But you also know that the module that was published of the cost -- by the way, down for a long time -- is related to pathology; it's not paid the same for an hernia as for a more complex derivation. That's right. So, I think you will defend me that we must derive from the concerted the least important, less serious pathologies, and we must resolve complex pathologies within our own system. Derivation from health to private. Look, I really liked what I put for example, because you were instead of articles talking about anecdotes, I told anecdote from here, another one... it was three anecdotes. But I really liked the one in the waiting room, the one they were talking about: where do you come from? No, we came from the same hospital, they're gonna operate on us and so on. That waiting room, there should have been four or five, you said... and at the time of your Bipartite, that waiting room didn't get into it, because there was never so much spending on private health, deriving from concerteds, as at the time of the Bipartite. In fact, when I saw the graph I thought it was about the Tour de France because there was an impressive pendant, it looked like Alpe d'Huez. No, it's the derivations of patients and the spending in concert at the time of the Bipartite. Ah! then the Bipartite spent a lot of money. That's why I say when you say it's the head of a lion, business, I don't know what, and I don't know how much, at the time of the Bipartite – where you were part of it – was much more complex. I don't think we should get into that kind of demagogy that doesn't lead to anything. But you also referred to the third mechanism, which was to say that no primary patients were derived from the specialist, or, within the specialist, they had resolved as soon as possible. Well, logically, what we think is that primary care is very important; we believe in primary care, you don't know. And we're interested in primary care being resolute, and it can be solved and the patient is not derived from the specialist, much better. That's why new consultations were created. There are queries that I think they're very well, because the specialist's consultation is through an e-mail where that comment is explained, and we prevent the patient from going to the hospital if it's not necessary and if we can solve it. That's why I think what we're trying to do is do a management that always favors the patient, but also taking into account and valuing our professionals. Demagogy is easy, demagogy is there to be counted. And what I can't help but point out is that it seems to me to say that beds are closed, six hundred beds, without saying that it's occasional and when there's no patients, and we for the value of management have, logically, not to have a hundred beds without the use of any open patients and simply to say that we have them open; we have to be busy and full when there is need. And if I have to say that the increase in beds is there, because it can be counted, and these are extensions of the hospital of Salnès, of the hospital of Ourense, of the hospital of Lugo, pardon of Lugo very recently...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u345	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u346	...of Ourense, the Coruña and Vigo's new hospital. And also to say that we're doing an ERE when an OPE for 2016 has just been published for eight hundred squares, because I think it's saying things that don't make much sense. Excuse me, Mrs. Prado, I'll give you this article whenever you like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u347	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández and four other members of the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, on the health care that is being provided in Sergas in cases of abortion
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u348	Mrs. Solla has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u349	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Mr. Almuinha. One month we had to wait for this answer, whatever the answer will give us. A month because you don't come voluntarily to this plenary, Mr. Almuña, no, because this matter doesn't seem to matter too much to the Council of Galicia, because if it hadn't been because AGE brought this inquiry, you wouldn't have seen it, or that another group had brought it in that case. You'd have to come by yourself given the seriousness of the matter, have come in, have reported, have acted, but no own motu, not even by appearance, because you'll know that you're requesting your presence also for this plenary on this very matter, but we were told that there were other matters for the full. I don't know if you didn't want to show up or if you didn't, or the Galician board understood that this was not a priority, and to us, in any case, that seems like a barbarity, because it's a very delicate issue that affects women's fundamental rights. We're talking about the fundamental right to health protection, and we're talking about human rights, and we're talking about a very sensitive situation for women. And because, in addition, the Right to Abortion Platform has moved that it has already denounced this situation that you know, which we reflected in the interpellation in July. However, you did not speak on this matter until this matter was reflected in the media. You have to get out of this situation so that you can say something. And for what they said, the truth is a month after we had to bring this inquiry here, the truth, because their answers were rather poor. Women aborting alone in a hospital bathroom. That's the situation that we bring to this chamber today, esenetic births or miscarriage, which are induced without the possibility of epidural anesthesia. We know even of inductions of fetuses almost already in the third quarter; women not accompanied by any or any stepmother, only with the attention of the nurses of the Xynecology plant, in the case of the CHUAC, who must also care for the rest of the patients in the unit. You put the treatment in, you ratio a cogna -- some of the cases -- and then you give birth to the dead fetus, the dead son, the dead daughter. That is the painful experience of women who have the courage to move to the Platform and to the media this terrible situation. Or births in their own bed; for they are delivered, even if they are of unsustainable fetuses or if they have some problem for the mother; even if they are scheduled abortions, they are delivered. And they're traumatic births, where that woman loses her daughter or the son she wants. So this lack of attention not only affects the relative right to physical health, to reproductive health, but also to mental health itself, to the psychological well-being of women, to the very least dignity, to the minimal care that can be taken into account in this situation. A room is not a place for an expulsion from a labor; a labor, even if it is an ereenetic abortion, produces contractions and pain. A delivery, even if it's an esenetic abortion, needs specialized care. And, to be sure, those women who insist on having access to their rights, the alternative offer is to move to Madrid so they can do the procedure there, in a private clinic. Why do we have public health? Why do we have to send women to abort a scheduled abortion, an ereenetic abortion, to Madrid at a private clinic? The process is already problematic enough or traumatic enough to have to add the journey and the displacement to Madrid. It's totally inexplicable. We believe that all of this can be considered violence against women, and we want to know what valuation you and the Galician Board do; we want to tell us what is the protocol of the Galician Health Service for abortions in the second quarter; we want you to explain to us why this epidural anesthesia is not offered in cases where it is necessary and why these cases of delivery are being given in rooms and bathrooms without specialized personnel in order to assist them; how, since Sergas, it has already been recognized, the truth, that this situation, in fact, was being given. And therefore, since it is recognised, we want you to tell us the number of centers where this procedure is followed, inexplicable to our understanding. From Family Planning it is ensured that this procedure is carried out throughout the Galego Health Service, that no public hospital can currently comply with international protocols and that the only thing that women offer is or give birth to their dead fetus in these conditions or move to Madrid. Tell us, Counsellor, what is the reason why they do not provide adequate health care and, however, finance these abortions in private Madrid clinics – by the way, paying their own clinic, of course, and only displacement, the rest of the expenses run by women – inform us of the number of midwives in each of our public hospitals, and of which is the number of deliveries and abortions that each of them attends. Service overflowed, because we also saw him at Vigo's hospital, which was spoken this morning, and also in the care of family orientation centers, and yet masters at unemployment. Sometimes I wonder why we become specialists. And tell us, above all, in the face of this terrible situation, in the face of this reality, what they're going to do, because you're the health adviser and they've been a month behind, a month of inaction. And not only that you hadn't come here to come, nor to move us what your opinion on the subject is, but that you haven't done anything at all. I beg you, please, that your answer is not limited to saying that you're going to investigate the case, because you've already told the media a month ago and the situation remains absolutely the same. Obstetric violence, Mr. Almuña, is also violence against women, and we understand that a public health system cannot protect any such procedure. So, given your responsibility, answer these questions and tell us what you're going to do to solve this situation. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u350	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Solla, good afternoon. Home!, I think I come when they invite me to come; here I am this afternoon and I think I am equally busy as long as you have to listen to the Government, and delighted; I think a fundamental function within the Government is transparency. It seems fundamental to me. [[Applause]] Mrs. Solla, we're talking about a very sensitive subject, so I would ask you to handle it with the utmost seriousness, rigor and respect, both for women and professionals involved in your care. In this context, I have to tell you that certain expressions that you use when writing your inquiry are extremely unwise, and now apply them again in oral intervention. Clearly, in the assistance we provide there are always aspects of improvement, or even errors can be made. However, textual statements such as "there is clear institutional abuse" or "a more form of violence against women" result from all unacceptable points. I don't know if you're aware of the seriousness of the charges you make. In addition to contributing to alarmism in our population, it is clear that they do not adjust to the intentions of our public health system and that they are extremely unfair, because they question the professionalism of workers who exercise such assistance, and that, as health counsellor, I cannot consent to it. Your Honor, you have every right to ask for explanations in this chamber, but I would ask you to be more prudent in the future before making such silent statements to our professionals. The first thing we have to point out is that the performances carried out in our centers in the abortions that occurred in the second quarter of the management are the same in all kinds of interruptions of pregnancy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There is no difference if it is a spontaneous or voluntary abortion requested under articles 14 and 15 of Organic Law 2/2010, of 3 March, of sexual and reproductive health and voluntary interruption of pregnancy, which are the causes for which the pregnancy may be interrupted. The protocol of the object process of its interpellation is essentially as follows: first, make it easier for the woman to information about the options collected within the law, give her the informed consent documents and explain the techniques that will eventually take place. Throughout the process, the team of psychologists is at the disposal of the patient's needs, even once given up for follow-up as needed. When hospitalisation is needed, the patient enters the Xynecology Unit in the individual room, if possible, with a companion; of course, for obvious reasons of privacy, not isolation. The gynecologist informs of the procedure and, where appropriate, performs the corresponding pharmacological prescription, whether this prophylactic, analgesic, interventionist or whatever else was needed during your stay, or discharge. Also follow-up on the pre- and post-abortion stage. The use of epidural analgesia, also the object of your questions, is individualized in each case, taking into account the contradictions and side effects that can cause the patient's condition. You know that epidural is not a technique that doesn't have any complications, you know, and logically professionals choose at every moment if it's necessary or not necessary, because we're not talking about an end-to-end birth, but an abortion of a fetus, obviously for many less weeks. The nursing staff, both nurses and technicians in auxiliary nursing care plants, give women the necessary instructions and recommendations of the unit: stamp employment, visiting hours, meals, room furniture, etc. The nurse establishes the individualized care plan based on the needs presented by the patient, both physical and psychological. It should be noted that the process carried out is physically removed from the paritory for psychological reasons that they will understand. Usually the procedure is done by drug induction, which will be controlled by the plant's medical and nursing equipment. The patient has access to the call bell to the staff, which can be used when needed regardless of the visits the staff has scheduled. It should be noted that drug use in the dilatation process can shorten the expulsion process, so this unpredictable situation can make it difficult to attend throughout fetal expulsion. In case of need of legrad, act in accordance with the protocol established for that procedure. Obviously, as you know, laurel does optional staff. The evolution of the patient on the plant is monitored, also attended by nurses and optional staff. A post-abortion medical check is performed prior to discharge. Finally, a medical high-level clinical report is issued indicating the recommendations, treatments and follow-up necessary and more continuity of nursing care to continue in primary care with the care you need, as a midwife or as a nurse. Your Honor, ask yourself for the number of midwives in Sergas. There are 337 of them 167 in primary care and 170 in hospital. On the other hand, and as it shows the magnitude of this type of care in our community, it is important to note that 539 episodes of spontaneous abortion in Galicia have been recorded in 2015. As you know, we count on the system You want. The system is a unique and homogenous management system for the entire Public Health System in Galicia, which allows to collect, resolve and report the claims and suggestions that are presented in relation to the provision of the services of the Public Health System in Galicia. There is no complaint in this system concerning any complaint concerning VE (voluntary termination of pregnancy) or spontaneous abortions in the second quarter; none. However, Your Honor, I also tell you that we are willing to investigate and are investigating any dysfunction in the application of the protocols, and we will be logically strict because we believe that it is an important problem, a problem of sensitivity, a problem of attention. In fact, we're conducting an investigation into the information about the lack of attention in esenetic abortions that you were commenting on. In this sense, I would like to point out to you that last week the Provincial Prosecutor's Office of the Coruña has just activated the information diligence initiated following the complaint presented by the care provided at the Maternoinfantil Hospital Teresa Herrera, although – reiterato – we will maintain our own investigation. –It's over, Your Honor. – We will agree that the psychological and emotional consequences of a natural abortion can be very painful for the woman and also for her partner when she exists. This pain may also appear after a voluntary interruption. From the health system we must ensure that the attention given to these patients, both before, during and after the process, is the best from a care point of view. Don't doubt that we'll work for this purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u352	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u353	Thank you, President. Counselor, you've been here for five months and I inform you that you can come on your own request, in case you don't know. Because he can come without us inviting him to be here in full, but he knows in addition that we requested his presence and that the People's Group considered that it was not necessary. So it's wrong for the People's Group and it's wrong for you not to show up on your own request. Look, the truth is, I'm pretty tired of you always using them -- they're the professionals -- they're the ones who show up in the street protesting against their management, those very ones you're threatening, for example, in the Vigo Hospital Complex, sanctions are protesting by staff restrictions. You're the ones who attack professionals with these restrictions and those cuts in their labor rights. You're the ones who attack them when they cut off in the human and material media so that they and they do their work. Of course, when from this rostrum or from outside this rostrum, we ask for more human means, more material means and that we can provide more and better health services, not only do we attack professionals, but we're defending them because the reality is that if the system is kept is thanks to them and them, but, if you were, they would be completely alone and alone in their jobs. Because the Health Council leaves its functions behind, and this is an obvious case: a month later and all you can tell us is that they're investigating. Look, you might be confused or you might be able to fool someone else. I don't know if... I imagine that you as a doctor will know the difference between an anaesthesia and anaesthesia; they're not the same. And when I ask you about epidural anesthesia, I don't ask you about an anaesthesia, I'm asking you about an anaesthetic, which in addition leads an anaesthetist or anaesthetist, not the gynecologist, or that should be what you've done; in normal delivery you do this way. So you haven't given an answer to why women are not provided or why women are not given the opportunity to accept this possibility. You say that medicine and nursing are present throughout the process; however, complaints, complaints that also corroborate the family orientation centers and many professionals, what they're saying is that in reality, on many occasions, women give birth to the dead fetus alone in the room, either in the bathroom, either in the bed or where they get them, because they don't move to any Parish. It is right for women to attend Xynecology Service rather than childbirth, but there has to be – you have to know –, according to international protocols, a specific parity for births that need it, even if they are scheduled abortions, eureenetics. And besides, I'd like to know, because you say you're investigating, when that investigation is over and who's doing that investigation, and who they're asking and who they're going to consult. I also read the press, and I also read the prosecutor's. I do not agree that, at the end of the day, it is important to withdraw this complaint. But I'm not going to comment on the prosecutor's business, but I'm going to ask you, and so I did in the first intervention, responsibility like what it is, health counsel. And, therefore, when what is being denounced – not only by women, but by professionals – is such a serious situation as this, you have the responsibility to take action. And it's obvious that when the heads or workers of the family guidance centres themselves claim that this situation occurs throughout the Galician Health Service, you will understand, Mr. Almuína, that it is not a matter of alarmism, it is something that you have to come here, because of your responsibility as advisor, to tell us what you are going to do in the face of this very serious situation. I'd like to know why you haven't given an answer, and I'd like you to clarify it; why you can't produce the procedure as laid down by international protocols in public health in Galicia, and why you pay trips to private clinics in Madrid to perform a procedure that should be taking place here. You didn't answer, I'd like you to. I beg you to reply, not to be demagogic, that we do not bring this inquiry because we like it or because we have the right to bother you, but because we are talking about a very serious issue from the health point of view, but from the point of view of women's rights. Of course it's institutional violence to force a woman to give birth to her dead son in a hospital room! If it isn't, I'd like you to tell us that it's what a woman seems to have to give birth to her son, to her dead daughter in a single hospital room with pain and no suitable staff. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u354	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Close round, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u355	Mr. President. In these processes, as in any other, what is ultimately about is adapting protocols to existing resources and to the needs of citizens with the appropriate levels of quality and safety. In this sense, I have to tell you that in the Galician Health Service the care of women who engage in voluntary interruptions of pregnancy in public health centres in Galicia is duly protocolized. I don't know if you have another protocol, but we have a protocol that defends itself in any institution and at any level. In the management of these patients, optional specialists in Obstetrics and Xinecology, nursing staff and clinical assistants are involved. In the case of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy women first access that family orientation center that you are repeatedly saying in your intervention that it is a person, a comment that makes a person in a specific COF of the Crown. But now I'm going to give more general information about professionals, who don't agree with that. Patients are informed by a doctor, insisting on psychological aspects that may be linked to the interruption of the management and, once in the hospital, both in the case of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy and spontaneous abortions, when they arrive at the plant receive all the instructions, the necessary recommendations by the nurse. The process is carried out furnished in the area of Obstetricia and Dilatation to avoid psychological causes for the benefit of the patient. They enter an individual room whenever possible, accompanied by a relative or close relative, at all times, who so desires. It should also be noted that the use of new drugs in the process of cervical dilatation has significantly shortened the process of fetal expulsion, as stated earlier. The most commonly used analgesia in these cases is the conventional, with opiates or derivatives thereof, with good results. If epidural analgesia is also considered in cases where it is necessary, but that indication makes it a professional, it's not a choice of the first one that goes through there; we're prepared to do it but when necessary. It is not just that we say so, Your Honor, because in recent days, the Galeg Society of Obstetrics and Xinecology, the Galaga Association of Matronas, the CHUAC masters, the hospital nurse team Teresa Herrera claiming that protocols exist and are followed as well as that clinical practice is correct and that respects the dignity and intimacy of women. I think they are collectives important enough to be able to say that what is being done is right. There is a clear fact that this type of intervention is always kept in mind. The main objective of all health care providers who accompany patients who have to go through this situation is their comfort and well-being, both physical and emotional. In any case, our counsellor, and in order to guarantee the rights collected by law, is conducting an investigation into information relating to the lack of attention to ellenenic abortions. Who's doing this research? The Medical Inspection, which is the collective, the trained and experienced collective, which has this specific task for its realization. They're pending conclusions, and I'm telling you that maybe in a week we have the final report to verify your opinion, your opinion, what really happens in our facilities. But if I tell you that I get a lot of attention when, after the follow-up we do with the system, you want, which is the most direct and where all patients and family can make direct complaints, there was no record of any suggestion or any complaint about it. We will continue anyway, because we understand that, as I say, it is a very difficult time for many women to go through and we will be with them, not only in the field of care, that of course, but also in the field of accompaniment and of being guiding the whole process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u356	Thank you, Counselor. We turn questions to the Government. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and Da María Teresaca Paz Franco, from G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block on Budget Reduction for the Management of Juvenile Internment Services
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u357	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u358	Thank you, President, good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. It's in the guest court staff at the juvenile boarding school; that is, today they ask you to answer by addressing the truth and not as you did months ago to a question put by Mrs. Gallego. Because you know the situation perfectly well, even if you had just come to the performance of your functions already with this started problem. I mean, from the two private boarding centers that exist and from the CIEMA center, in the middle of the open, you find yourself in an open competition that remains deserted. There is still a desert because this competition is almost low in fear, that is, by reducing to boarding centres 17 % of the budgets and to the open regime 19 %, and no non-profit entity, no company, is left deserted. You promise to take him out again in the contest. In fact, it's back in the competition, but it's still with an absolutely ridiculous budget, because it's reduced by 15% – if it's lower, we'd actually be talking about a low fear–, it increases staff demand by 10%. And the commitment you have acquired in this House, which is the following – you have read it because it is exactly in the Journal of Sessions – is about the elimination of posts. Look, there is an obligation through the conventions; therefore, there is an obligation of subrogation. So calm to the staff who are providing these services. If these staff were properly recruited at the time of the service's commencement, they must be required to enter into the terms of the new tender. Three people in downtown Ourense are out of the question of conditions that regulate the new contest. You have committed yourself here – and I am also personally aware that with the staff – all the jobs would be collected. That's why we ask you today why this cut continues to be maintained in centres that provide such an important service and that it is an obligation to implement the measures imposed by the judges in the case of minors offenders by the Government of Greece. I demand more staff, they reduce their budget, from 210 euros a day to 180, and they also eliminate three squares. You acquired some commitments exactly in November, five months ago. Five months later, with the competition already open, with the workers here, with their concern about how they will provide that service by working more, charging less, with three people who will be fired, because they are not in the subrogation of that contract... look, we consider it very important to know – do not answer the BNG Parliamentary Group, answer these workers – why they continue to maintain such a small amount...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u359	Thank you, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u360	...for these centers and why they remove these three squares. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u361	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u362	Mr. President. Mrs. Adam, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that this question, as you well know, because you just read my answer, I answered it a few months ago. What I can say, starting this answer, is that I keep what I said at that time when I was just here at the Social Policy Council. But, look, when we're talking about minors, when we're talking about the family area, the area of childhood, what I can tell you is that there's no budget reduction, rather the opposite. The budget increase in the general direction is 40%. You know that we have various types of services, that in addition to those services in some cases are complementary. We have 4,000 minors in Galicia who have protective records, of which 1,464 are under public custody; and, fortunately, increasing the number of minors who are in a family shelter, 61 %, and of which 61 % are in a family home 87 % are in extended family shelter. It's true that we have 400 boys and girls who are running some judicial action. The Council of Galicia must implement those judicial measures imposed by the juvenile judges of those who have committed acts classified in the Criminal Code. Mrs. Adam, that's not what they say in your question. They speak of three boarding centers, and in Galicia there are four boarding centers, as I'm sure you know perfectly well: the Arenal Design, the Monte Ledo, the Avelino Montero and the specific care center Monte Cid, which cover these needs precisely in cases with judicial intervention. But we also have in the four provinces educational intervention centers in the open environment, those known as CIEMA. Look, the boarding school has increased in the last few years to exactly 33 percent. There were 94 boarding grounds in 2009 and now we have 125. The educational squares have increased in four people in the centre of Avelino Montero. And works of improvement were also developed in these centres; in the Avelino Montero and in the Monte Alegre Complex, about a million euros. New programmes: the Mind Programme, with an investment of more than 1.5 million euros; the Evaluation and Treatment Programme; and the Family Integration Programme. So a whole series of programs that demonstrate is the commitment of the Government of Galicia to precisely those minors who require reintegration procedures, which is what we're doing. And as for what you're asking in your question, what I was saying at the outset: in the Council we maintain that there is a right of subrogation for workers who, of course, as a responsible administration, we will monitor when we can sign the agreements of collaboration with the social entity selected by a recruitment table. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u363	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u364	Look, Counselor, I should really explain myself wrong. There is one centre, which is the Concepción Arenal center, and another center, which is the Monte Ledo center, where the budget is reduced by 15%. The question is: Is the budget up to 15%? yes or no? You're holding your head, I understand you don't. But, of course, if we go to the recruitment service, the budget is reduced by 15%, so there's a budget reduction, and there's a staff request that increases by 10%. Then, less budget and more personal, with which the entity will have to make its settings. Is all personnel maintained? No, there are three people, three posts – three posts that actually respond to three people who have been doing this work since the year 1999 – that do not appear. So you do reduce staff, even though you say here you can be calm – the rest of the staff you are providing these services –. So it's not the question about the scope of minors or what is increasing in their counseling or none of that, but that if there's indeed a budget allocation of 40% more in their counseling, why do centres, not public centers, but centres that are in private regimes, such as the Arenal Concept and Monte Ledo, reduce their budget by 15% and there's a greater need for staff? I don't think I can say it any slower. Why? And why isn't all the staff kept up? The workers are here. They've met with you on one occasion. You made a promise before them. If you come today really saying that you keep what you said five months ago, it would be that the new contest had to go out with a budget allocation similar to what existed before the June 2015 contest, and that's not the case. You just reduced it, instead of 17%, by 15%. And all the workers should be kept, and that's not the case. So I'm asking you not to talk about minors and your counseling, but about this specific problem: why you keep maintaining this budget reduction and why the three people fell...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u365	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u366	...the three jobs in downtown Ourense. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u367	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u368	So thank you very much, to see if I can explain myself or repeat a little better my explanations of past months and the explanations I just made. Look, there are two processes that will end up in administrative collaboration agreements amounting to EUR 4,128,000 and EUR 4,364,000. I committed myself here to reviewing these amounts, technically revised those amounts, and we achieved an increase, an increase of 86,118 euros/year; in four years, 344,000 euros. So what was done was to have greater budgetary availability, because they've been re-examined, just as these contracts have already been reviewed by the Council Intervention, which is the one that elaborates the economic frameworks, as you know perfectly well, that regulate these types of agreements, these types of contracts. So what I can tell you is that, and I can reiterate to you that, of course, the Counsellor's not going to do is to allow there to be any kind of staff reduction in respect of the staff that has been developing their role. Because there's a legal obligation that's above the stakes, which is the staff subrogation that's in a certain public service. So what I'm telling you is that the prediction of the Social Policy Council is that it assists itself, because this time there was no desert left. So, I think that's good news for the workers and a good calm for the whole House, that's first. And once you get helped, make sure no staff stays out. That's the commitment I said in November, which led to a nail review. And the commitment I'm telling you is that, once you've been sued, what we're going to do is make sure there's a legal subrogation from all the staff. That's what I can answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u369	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Juan Carlos González Santín and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecasts of the Government of Greece with regard to the authorization of some measure for the refund of the amounts due to the taxpayers due to the undue collection of the tax on retail sales of certain hydrocarbons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u370	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u371	Thank you, President. Counsellor, as you well know, January 1, 2002 introduced the retail sales tax of certain hydrocarbons, known as "health centime", a tax that had a state section of 0.024 centimes/litre and an autonomic stretch – in the case of Greek, 0.048 per litre –. Since the minute zero, there have been a lot of people claiming that this tax was illegal. In 2008, the community executive declared this tax illegal called "sanitary cent," giving the reason to all these people who said it was illegal. The logic would be to think that the executive would stop charging for this tax, but the reality is that he kept charging until the last minute. During the years of application of this so-called "healthy centime", public administrations raised around €13,000 million, €13,000 million illegally collected. I'm not saying that, say a European Union sentence. I suppose it will be with me that if the state has illegally collected EUR 13,000 million, it will have to return them to the taxpayers who sent them. What's the reality? The fact is, it's only estimated that 2,000 million will be returned. Why? First, because most users are private, and the truth is nobody keeps 14 years of receipt of a gas station. And secondly, because by the Ministry of Finance, to return these amounts, there are a number of requirements that are very difficult to meet. With these restrictions, companies went to the courts, claiming the way of heritage liability because those amounts wrongly charged. We think that in the case of a truck we would be talking about around 3,000 euros a year and a car, and according to the estimates of transport unions, each truck would be about 16,000 euros and a bus would be EUR 14,000 which would be lost. Since the option given to them by the Government was to recover those 2,000 million, 15.3% of the collection illegally, because the companies went to the courts. And the 3rd Chamber of the Supreme Court recently voted the first eight appeals giving the companies the reason. What is relevant to these eight resources? That they are not eight appeals taken at random, but are chosen as representatives of the more than 4,000 appeals before the courts, and that it is foreseeable that they are all resolved in the same sense, since they are based on a judgment of the European Union Court of Justice of 27 February 2014, which declares the law authorising this tax contrary to European Economic Community Regulation 92/12. Therefore, these judgments can involve the return of another 1 billion euros; that is, we would be talking about that of the 13,000 can be recovered 3,000, i.e. 23%, 1 out of 4 euros. The question I ask you, Counsellor, is: will the Government of the Union enable any measures to return the tax charged improperly or will they have the taxpayers to keep claiming before the courts?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u372	Thank you, Mr. González Santín. Answer from the Consecutor of Fairy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u373	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The tax on retail sales of certain hydrocarbons was a tribute – as you said quite correctly – effective in our order between January 1st 2002 and December 31st 2012, which recorded the retail sales of certain hydrocarbons in a single phase. The type of recording of the tax was made up of two sections, the state, which is in charge of all autonomous communities, and the autonomics, which could regulate or not autonomous communities. The tax yields were entirely affected by the financing of health expenditure and guided by objective criteria set at national level. Thirteen autonomous communities approved autonomous types, including Galicia, which exercised their regulatory competence and established their own type in 2004. It is important to note that, although initially it was expected that the management of this tax would take over the autonomous communities by delegation of the State, but in each of the tax assignment laws to these communities it was expected that management would continue to be exercised by the Spanish Tax Administration Agency, it should be the communities that urged the transfer of the tax services. I have to tell you that no community has urged this transfer, and therefore it was the State that has managed the tax throughout its vigil in the communities of common regime. In 2001, in fact, you have already pointed out this, the European Commission informed the Spanish authorities that the introduction of this tax could be contrary to Community law. In 2003 a non-compliance procedure was initiated against Spain and, indeed, the judgment of the European Union Court of Justice of 27 February 2014 declared this duty contrary to Council Directive 92/2012 on special taxes. This Directive provides for the possibility that products which are already subject to special taxes may be taxed in addition to other indirect taxes for specific purposes and subject to certain conditions. The court considered that the tax lacked that specific purpose, understanding that, for it exists, it cannot be exclusively budgetary. The judgment expressly points out that in order to accept the legality of the above-mentioned tax, its structure, the taxable act and the type of burden should be conceived in such a way that it discourages contributors from using hydrocarbons or encourages the use of other products whose effects are less harmful to the environment. As you also know, the tax on us was repealed by the State in January 2013 and integrated into the special hydrocarbon tax following a negotiation process with the European Commission itself, in which such differentiation by territories, in particular by autonomous communities, of tax rates within a given holocaust.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u374	Finish it, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u375	Thus, today, the tax on hydrocarbons has a general rate of 58 %, and two special types, state and autonomic – which is in the hands of the autonomous community – are handed over to 100% in their performance. In other words, the current oil tax is fully compatible with European legislation. As far as returns are concerned, I would like to make it clear that competition resides exclusively in the State, through its Tax Agency, even though Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u376	Finish it, Counselor. You still have another shift, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u377	... like the rest of the autonomous communities, it has not assumed any managerial competence in the field of tax
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u378	You've got another shift, you still have another shift, Counselor. It's just that you still have another shift, but stop it, finish the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u379	Thank you, Mr. President. In short, two questions: the opposite tax is already exceeded, and the powers currently vested in the Self-Government in the field of management are not. So it's the Tax Agency that should manage this tribute.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u380	Thank you, Counselor. It looks like an interpellation, it almost came out of an interpellation. Replica, Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u381	Thank you, President. Well, if I didn't get it wrong – you corrected me – to the question I was asking if the Government of the Union would enable something, the Government of the Union would do absolutely nothing to return this tax. I don't know if I misunderstood. I remind you that we are talking about the state and autonomous communities being charged EUR 13,000 million illegally, and that they are going to return 3,000; 2,000 in a far-sighted procedure through the Tax Agency, so it does nothing but protest everyone who has to go to it, and 1,000 others through the litigation trial, through heritage responsibility. By the way, a path of heritage responsibility that Mr. Montoro did not want to accept on an administrative basis and which forced everyone in that situation to go to trial for the money to be returned to them. I mean, they'll recover a quarter of the reception. And that's why I ask you, because it is already the matter of your counsellor, Counsellor: isn't there an illicit enrichment of the administration by this tribute with respect to the Council of Galicia? There's an illicit enrichment that I suppose you'll have to answer. Do you realize that this tax was illegally raised at the time of the biggest crisis we had here in the transport sector, when they were closing one day and another also transport companies? We're talking, as I told you earlier, of 3,000 euros a truck and a year. If we're talking about a medium-sized company, a small company that has 10 trucks, we'd be talking about an illegal collection of 160,000 euros, of which 40,000 euros will be returned to it. I ask myself, and I ask you, Counselor, if that carrier who is in that case owes the Tax Agency €160,000 and pays him $40,000, what would happen? I'll tell you what would happen: that they would go to the embargo, and their leaders, their leaders, would have to respond to that barbarity. I only ask that the Galician Union do something for our transporters, who in the end are the only ones who will be able to recover something from that money, to help them to keep that loss they've had at least not keep it in time. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u382	Thank you, Mr. González Santín. Shut up, Counselor, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u383	I hope I don't consume them this time. Reiterate: The Autonomous Community, like all those of the common regime, did not charge this tax. The Board cannot enable any action to be taken for its return. The reintegration of the known health-care center is a consequence of the European Union's famous judgment, indeed. I insist that the change of tax is allowing us to shield social spending, because it is a tax that our community has voluntarily decided to use it for the collection of health care, which is currently fully effective, fully legal, and which presupposes that social expenditure blockage that it commented on. And there's an even greater question: that since January 1, 2014, the new tax includes what is our competition, which is the absolute return of this new tax on the professional-supported, whether large companies, small companies or many of the companies that are poorly in one or two trucks, as you said, or even within what can be the professional in the bus transport industry in general, which we also have quite a lot in Galicia of a rather smaller size than what you said. So, two questions. With regard to the former, the competences of any autonomous community of common regime over it are not of direct responsibility. Our support and our collaboration may have, if so asked by the different associations, to make things easier for them, but it's not the competence of the Union itself. And with regard to the current situation, which is of our competence, is totally corrected. I'm very grateful for the question you ask me, but what if you have to recognize me is that we are a little bit in the weaver, with all due respect, of the butterfly effect. Together in certain matters is always in the middle, and we take one side and the other. In this case, we had no competence before, and we can certainly give our support when this is required. And on the other hand, we're talking about a situation that has been totally corrected since January 2014, which is our competition and therefore, acting accordingly, we're returning the famous health centime to all professionals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u384	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Antonio Sánchez Bugallo and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the impact that will have the unique derogation provision of Law 2/2016, of the ground of Galicia, on the municipalities that are governed by their subsidiary rules
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u385	Mr. Sánchez Bugallo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u386	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and especially the Counsellor. We've already spoken in this House, our group has already raised it, and it's not the only exception, that the new Law on Galician soil has more holes than a chin of grueère. I also know that the Counsellor, when she came to the office, found herself with a plate already pre-cooked, and she didn't have a lot of possibilities or a lot of time to intervene on this subject. But the truth is, every day there's a new problem. Recently in this House we had to urgently process the amendment of Article 147 in order to provide a solution to the major projects of public initiative interest. It also appears to me that the Counsellor is already aware of a problem arising from the fourth transitional provision due to the disappearance of the previous law in relation to agricultural holdings located in rural nuclei, which remain out of coverage in the new law. We'll probably talk ahead of this, and we're waiting for the Council to offer some solution. By the way, I take advantage to say that our group has requested the presence of the Secretary-General in Commission 2nd, and that I hope that for once the People's Party will accept this appearance, so that we can talk more deeply about the problems and the possible solution of these problems. What I bring you here today is another one that makes reference to subsidiary rules. Subsidiary rules are the urban rules governing 155 municipalities in Galicia; therefore, half the municipalities in Galicia, and most of the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. Specifically, 105 of the 203 municipalities under 5,000 inhabitants are governed by subsidiary rules, and 50 other municipalities are larger than 5,000, too. What is true is that the new Land Law does not even mention subsidiary rules, and what is understood is that they will be replaced by other figures, which will be the Autonomic Basic Plan and the municipal basic plans. But when will there be an autonomous basic plan and municipal basic plans? There is no weather forecast or 2016 funding for its elaboration. So what about the urbanism of these municipalities? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, of these 155, 97 are governed by municipal subsidiary rules, and 58 -51 of them under 5,000 inhabitants - by provincial subsidiary rules, which in our view are derogated.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u387	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u388	I would like the Counsellor to explain to us how they understand the situation of these municipalities and what a solution they are given. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u389	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u390	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I know that you, as mayor of an important city, of our capital of Galicia, know the rules of urbanism, and I am convinced that of the questions you have asked me, you already know your answer. I don't think it's appropriate for you to say that this is a law that has holes. The holes you speak of, you know as I did that were caused in this case – for example, by what I first set out as an example – by an absolutely time-consuming sentence in the time of the processing of a law, and which, of course, since the Government of the Council of Galicia we had the commitment – of course, supported by its political formation – to respond to a problem that today has the city of Vigo, but which at any other time can have any other city. And that's actually for projects of general interest and for urgent projects. You know as well as I do that this is the first time in the history of the entire Autonomous Community that before the law enters into force the draft of the regulation that is going to develop this law, this has never happened. It's a draft of a regulation that is integral, that is, it integrates, as you know, three regulations that were of a state character and that have to do with the development of a law. This didn't happen at any time, and you know very well that that regulation will be the useful tool that will allow us all to clarify not only the fourth transitional provision that you were talking about as to agricultural holdings, but any other topic you call – bad from my perspective – holes. Because I wouldn't put out the effort that after six years have developed Galician board technicians together with many institutions and citizens' representatives, because it must be taken into account that this law comes to this Parliament with eight out of every ten allegations – and I'm not going to talk about what you already know, as may be the College of Architects and different institutions –. Having said this, you said very well that, indeed, there are two tools that the law now speaks of as to how to manage, which is their goal, which is the PXOM, the planning, and even the basic plan. And you say, what will happen then to subsidiary rules or supplementary rules? I'm convinced you know the answer, and the answer is: nothing!; in the sense that, indeed, everything remains in force until we all achieve among ourselves that the 314 municipalities of our community have or the PXOM or its municipal basic plan, which, as you know, are for the municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants. So it seems doubtful; well, if you have the doubt, I intend to clarify it with this answer: subsidiary and complementary rules will be maintained, they will remain exactly the same. Because this law envisages a transition to the moment when the council – which is competent – decides to take forward its PXOM, or, in any case, if it is less than 5,000 inhabitants, decides to take forward the municipal basic plan. For my part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u391	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u392	Counsellor, I'm sorry, and I apologize if I offended her, but the subject of subsidiary rules is not a hole, it's a huge blow, because it affects many municipalities in Galicia. And it's not exactly what you just said, look, give it to the searcher – because I tried, in case I ran away from the regulation. Do you know what it says about subsidiary rules? Nothing, he doesn't mention them. Do you know what the law of subsidiary rules says? Nothing, he doesn't mention them. Do you know what the first transitional provision on subsidiary rules says? Nothing, he doesn't mention them. You tell them they're still in force. Do you know what the General Secretariat of Urbanism says, page 22 of the documentation attached to the law? He says, "It is considered that there are no plans for those who only have a delimitation of urban soil and those who are governed by provincial subsidiary rules." This says, and it's in the annex to the law itself, page 22. By the way, that would apply to the first paragraph of paragraph 4 in the transitional provision. Do you know what the fourth part says? It says, "It can only be built on land that deserves the condition of consolidated urban soil," and that, rightly, is what practically is not in the rural municipalities. You know what that means? That agrarian exploitation could not be opened in any of those municipalities, because by distances they can't go in the nucleus or in the urban hull, and they can't be licensed out of that. Madam Counsellor, you're afraid of the matter, tell the secretary-general to come up with the Commission and we'll take this up. Because 58 municipalities in Galicia with more than 250,000 inhabitants – some small ones, such as Sada and Viveiro, and others not as small as they – are left without any applicable urban regulations. And it's not just that I say it, that it is said by the General Secretariat itself, and that you also know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u393	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u394	...that through the regulation no law can be changed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u395	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u396	I see, Your Honor, that you have a lot of topics to talk about beyond compliance with subsidiary and complementary rules, and that you want to introduce another subject, from which we will be delighted to speak in depth not only with three minutes, as may be the fourth transitional provision, linked to agricultural holdings, where, of course, in the rustic soil, which is where the Union of Galicia has absolute competence to legislate, legislate and, therefore, there will be no problem. And there won't be any problem in the urban centers, in the rural centers, because, in fact, it has the capacity to legislate now the council, which is the same organ that will have the opportunity to give them an answer. Having said that, and focusing on what I think is the question you bring to this Parliament today, there are 96 municipalities today that don't have urban planning. 96, Your Honor, 96 not to comply with the adaptation, but rather to have no urban planning and therefore if you are currently veering with the Louga – because the Louga is still in force until 19th – by subsidiary rules and by complementary rules; that – as you also know – subsidiaries are those that affect those municipalities that have no plans, complementary to those that have it, but that actually complement it. This follows exactly the same – and so it contemplates the law – with the new Law of the soil that will enter into force. And look, Your Honor, the goal of the Government of Galicia with this new Land Law was nothing else to do right in a matter as vital and crucial as the ordination of our Autonomous Community. And you can't question that from the beginning of the previous legislation we have taken steps to make this so. I believe that in these nearly seven years, I now have some land management guidelines, to have a coastal management plan, even having a new law that has a clear objective, Your Honor, that all municipalities – the 314 – have their planning; that it has a clear objective, that it is to dynamize the countryside of our community; and that it has a clear objective, that it is to protect our landscape, that is something that has not been achieved in the history of the Government of Galicia and that, indeed, today we will try to clarify it – even more so – by regulation. I trust – that I know perfectly well that a regulation does not change legislation, I know perfectly – that that regulation will answer many of the doubts you are probably considering and that I will try to answer through this Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u397	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Antón Sánchez García and five other Members of the G.P. on the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia concerning the valuation of tenders submitted in the wind competition
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u398	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Today Mr. Feijóo did not answer the simple question of how many megawatts were installed from his contest. And he said, without getting colored, that the cause was that no premiums were collected and that the evacuation of the energy produced was not solved. Lies and more lies not to take responsibility for causing serious harm to the country. When you arrived at the Government, they cancelled the competition approved by the previous Government and developed their own competition. Time has shown that his course was a chauffeur and ended up being extremely detrimental to the country's economy. A ruling by the Supreme Court declared illegal the suspension of the Bipartite's invitation to tender for a diversion of power. In other words, its suspension resolution is null and void, there are 17, 18 or 80 judgments in the opposite sense; it is null and void in the right. The judgment opens the door to the company claim for the costs incurred in the tender and for loss of profits – as is already happening –. There are already a number of companies that have filed these property claims and time will tell us what it costs all the Greeks and the Greeks their shares. On the other hand, and recently, the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia issued a judgment in which it annulled the decision of its invitation to tender and in which it ordered the retroaction of the proceedings to the valuation phase. It's a new blow to the politics of the People's Party in the wind sector and a new blow to the country. The content of the judgment is demoralizing with the proceedings of the commission and therefore the counseling of which you are a part. And he considers that the resolution of the valuations is arbitrary and contrary to the principle of equal treatment, a commission that has not met his task. And this judgment further aggravates the situation in the sector, which goes to a legal labyrinth and again the resources of companies, both the concessionaires and the non-concessionaries. We have a paralysed sector in an area where jobs and wealth could be created as in the rest of Europe. Your bill of amendment of Law 8/2009 as a solution to trigger the contest was useless, zero megawatts installed in your contest. In view of this, the first thing we ask is that from the Government political responsibilities are assumed for their actions, which value the situation. Honestly, what do you think of the situation in the wind sector today, Counsellor? What plans are there in the future for this country not to paralyze the production of renewable energy so necessary for this country, so necessary to reduce energy dependence, so necessary to create quality jobs in this country? This is a unique and exclusive product of administrative political decisions of the People's Party governments. We are an island in Europe of paralysis in renewables.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u399	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u400	...in the rest of Europe there is a real boom today, Counselor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u401	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u402	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, the debate of being a strategic sector for Galicia, which is, logically, the wind sector, I believe that I need a debate that must first be rigorous, both with regard to its legal situation and its economic impact. And you know – and I've told you since the utmost cordiality – that it hasn't been rigorous in your intervention. Because if it had been so, if it had been strict in its intervention, it would surely recognize that this Government's wind competition is an example of legal certainty, impartiality and defence of general interests. And I'm telling you this from a legal point of view, because over the last five years the courts have been giving us reason, sentence after judgment, validating the legality and constitutionality of both the wind law and the competition itself. And, in fact, you know that there is none, Mr. Sánchez, firm judgment against this government's political contest. And this legal certainty – if it had been rigorous in its intervention – would also recognize that it applies to the wind canon – which has eight favourable judgments – and also – Mr. Sánchez, I regret his lack of rigor – about the annulment of the Bipartite's contest, with another twenty-one judgement in favour of the Union; and one of them, Mr. Sánchez, of the Supreme Court, who validated the annulment of the Bipartite's contest. Therefore, Mr. Sánchez, a bit of rigour when it comes to judicial judgments. But if you want to also enter the bottom of the last sentence, and you know that this Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, in the last sentence, only one pronouncement was made that one of the fourteen criteria of valuation was not properly motivated. And you also know that there is another sentence – that you do not want to move it in this House, because you always speak of a part of the story –, as you well know, from the Supreme Court of Justice itself in Galicia that validates, Mr. Sánchez, the decision to assign the same valuation to that criterion. And on that occasion, the Court pointed out that the decision was taken, and I quote the judgment, "To dispel any doubts about arbitrary evaluation of projects." Therefore, the Council of Galicia, Mr. Sánchez, has already brought the appeal against this judgment of 2016, because the judgment, firstly, is not firm, and, secondly, because there are sufficient legal grounds to do so. Therefore, Your Honor, neither does this judgment nullify the allocation of megawatts, nor does it affect the development of the 2010 competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u403	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u404	Counselor, since cordiality, I tell you to lie and try to confuse. Look, here I have the Supreme Court's ruling declaring the Bipartite's invitation to tender null and void. And I'm going to explain – although I know you don't do it with good intentions that you say it – why a sentence is prosperous or does not prosper not only depending on the facts that are judged, but rather on the procedural approach that is given to it. And if there is a judgement that reaches the Supreme Court and declares it null and void, that resolution is null and void, even if it is 17, 20 or 30 otherwise, Counsellor. Maybe they didn't focus it on the way it was supposed to be, with one it's null and void of right. And here I have the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which has not yet given him time to stand firm, but which says – this is your invitation to tender, Counsellor – and let me explain to you that you are not the supreme holder of rigour here: "The appeal is accepted at this point, and specifically the subsidiary request to nullify the result of the wind competition, with retroaction of actions to the stage of valuation of bids submitted by each promoter to ensure that the commission follows the criteria set out in this judgment," the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. And this, Counsellor, what you're doing to appeal to the Supreme Court is just to earn time, because it's a demolition judgment, the commission misqualified it, failed the rating of the coefficient you were pointing out, and there's no going back. I have already warned you here that the Supreme Court would render annulment of its Bipartite resolution, review the minutes, I have already warned you – although I am not very rigorous, in your opinion – before it happened, and it happened. And said that, the effect is the same, Counselor, the effect is that companies don't install any megawatts, the effect is that by their actions in the last two years zero megawatts have been installed; they don't give solutions to a sector that you think is strategic to this country, that megawatts!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u405	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u406	And you, in addition – finished already, finished already, Mr. President – and in effect...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u407	It's over. You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u408	...practical, you know that many companies are already filing property claims; their actions are going to cost us a lot of money, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u409	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u410	I regret that you continue with this juridical fiction, Mr Sánchez and, above all, with this political irresponsibility. It's clearly mixing with all intents and purposes two judgments that have nothing to do with; I logically clarify all the judgments I need, but, as I told you, this sentence of the year 16 – which refers to your question – does not cancel the contest, does not cancel the allocation of megawatts, nor does it affect the development of the contest. I have clearly handed it over to him, as there is another judgement by the Supreme Court itself of Justice of Galicia which is contradictory, and that is what logically motivates us to present this appeal to the Supreme Court. But logically, Mr. Sánchez, the competition will continue with its administrative process with full normality, and for two main reasons: I have already clarified the legal aspects, now I will clarify, if I may, the economic aspects. First of all, because this Government is defending the development of the wind sector, we have already authorized 15 wind farms that add 374 megawatts, and tomorrow – as it has moved even today in Parliament – two other parks will be added in the Bath and in the Pastoral Area to increase the number of administrative authorizations of the competition in 36 megawatts. But, Your Honor, this contest is also of interest to the Greek society, which you don't want to recognize. It seems that you come here to defend the interests of companies, I deeply regret it. We are here to defend – I told you – the general interest, therefore, the interest of Greek society. And, therefore, you should recognize how this competition has already had positive impacts on the Greek society, certainly not on you, or on the companies you want to defend, but yes on the Greek society. And you know there are industrial plans that have already mobilized more than 1 billion euros and that have already generated more than 2,000 jobs in Galicia. And there's also a wind canon – which you don't want to talk about – that has also allowed the collection of EUR 137 million for the Autonomous Community. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] A cannon that, as you know perfectly well, companies want to eliminate, seems like you want to eliminate it too, but this government, of course, is not going to eliminate it. Therefore, Your Honor, as I have already told you, the judgment you refer to is not firm, and we, logically, will continue to process the contest with all normality. And, of course, you know it's not true, Your Honor, it's not true, that the Supreme Court has declared this contest illegal. It's not true how much you say otherwise. Nor is it true that the previous competition had been cancelled. I'm sorry for your lack of legal knowledge of the wind competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u411	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and two other MPs from G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Galicia to comply with the Organic Law 2/2010 of 3 March, on sexual and reproductive health and on the voluntary interruption of pregnancy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u412	Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u413	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Let's ask him about obstetric violence. You answered an interview this afternoon and we were even more doubted. I have here a copy of what was a complaint filed, a complaint filed in July 2015 – the 20th of July, in particular – addressed to the Health Council to inform the board of counseling what was happening with full care for abortion in the second trimester of management. It is carried out by the Galician Platform by the Right to Abortion of the Coruña. Women representatives of this platform are in the rostrum today to hear their reply. After seven months there was no response to this complaint, where the health counseling was alerted to what was happening, and from what later he had knowledge of the counseling and we had knowledge of many more people through the media, when women themselves had to go out and report facts that we can qualify as horrendous, horrible situations that were living in the Sergas centers. And in this complaint it was clear that a woman must be guaranteed to be cared for during the entire process of induction of the expulsion and after that by a mistress. That we should guarantee emotional support for women and that we should ensure the same attention as in childbirth, by referring to international protocols. Even today, March 2016, it comes out in the press as professionals of the COF of the Coruña report that a month after knowing the facts through the press it is false that international protocols are being complied with. You spoke from that rostrum that protocols are being complied with. What we want is no longer to ask you, but to ask you, to beg you, that you already immediately arrive at the council today afternoon, tomorrow morning - if you want the hours that are - and give strict order that all international protocols are complied with, that you don't have to go out to the media to report that you are not treated in condition in the second quarter of a management when you have an abortion; that you don't have to go to Madrid; that you don't have to go to a private clinic; because in the state of Galicia, you're not meeting all the criteria ratified by the Spanish State. And while Galliza is in the Spanish state, I also understand that she is ratified by Galicia. So, Counselor, here are the women who filed this complaint seven months ago, which you said you had no knowledge of what was happening, and they want to hear from you that from now on all protocols will be fulfilled so that women have guaranteed their rights to sexual and reproductive health. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u414	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u415	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Good afternoon, Mrs. Adam. Logically, because there's the same subject in both interpellation and question, there's going to be repeated subjects, they apologize for it, but I think it's important to highlight it. Of course, I strongly reject the expression used by you of obstetric violence, I reject it deeply. We understand that, using his own expression, he says: the authorities of the Coruña health area. I think it refers to the management team of the Organizational Structure of Integrated Management of the Crown, which neither violates the reproductive rights of women with the need for an abortion to be performed in more than fourteen weeks for medical reasons, nor seems to be their intention. I reiterate the argument that there can always be situations in which it has not acted in the best way possible. We're basically talking about not about a care issue. Now, what can't be drawn is general conclusions of bad practice and, less so, judgments of intent, such as that of the will to violate women's rights as to their sexual and reproductive health. Neither the professionals nor the relevant management team deserve such a qualification. At the Hospital Materno Infantile Teresa Herrera, of the Hospitalrio da Coruña Complex, as in the other centers of the Greek service, the health care process of these episodes is duly protocolized, as I pointed out in the inquiry to which I referred earlier. And it's not just that we say it, the professionals ratify it. In a recent letter from the Galician Society of Obstetrics and Xinecology on this issue, of which the press echoed, you can find textual phrases such as the following: "The interruptions of pregnancy of more than fourteen weeks performed at the Infant Mother Hospital in Coruña have fulfilled the world protocols. Gynecologists accept and comply with laws that have been passed, respect and enforce the law on people who wish to interrupt their pregnancy, regardless of the cause." On allegations of lack of care and non-Matternal ellenesic abortions, they point out that: "The published information has not had the professional opinion of society, so they have an absolute ignorance of the process and behaviour of the medications used in this type of case." Finally, Your Honor, I want you to pay particular attention to the following – also textual – expression of the Galician Society of Obstetrics and Xynecology. He says, "The Greek xinecologists ensure that they feel overwhelmed by various movements that mark us as promoters of violence." These are the words of the professionals, Your Honor, of the gynaecologists. By the way, they also say: "Gynecologists currently occupy more than 70% of the professional population and they are the ones who feel most offended." Please, for once again, Your Honor, wisdom and measurement when dealing with such a sensitive subject...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u416	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u417	...for both women and professionals in charge of caring for them. There's no doubt that your main concern, such as this administration, is to give them the best attention, both physically and emotionally. To pretend otherwise is tremendously offensive to them, as they have stated. I also insist that we have an ongoing investigation, as I said, done by the Medical Inspectorate's Inspectorate, and that we will have results in the coming days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u418	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u419	Yes, thank you, President. Look, Counselor, with all due respect, I should really be more concerned about this. If you're really worried that we're talking about violence, you should be more concerned that you understand what's going on, that women who suffered what they call something "horrorous, horror, total, intolerable violence, left me alone five minutes after the fetus was released, they didn't come, and the whole process of expulsion alone." After this goes out to the press that you come here and read me a paper like this, and say that we're doing trials... we don't judge anyone here. Of course not the professionals, but we ask for explanations from the Administration, in this case, you, Health Counsellor, about whether or not to comply with international protocols in cases of abortion in the second quarter, so of course. You knew this since July 2015, you didn't do anything, and now you come here, you read us a paper and you don't tell us what you're going to do. If indeed there are women who are not being accompanied in the entire process of induction, in the entire process of expulsion and, subsequently, by the corresponding professionals or professionals, you would be the first to be concerned. This has a name, he likes or doesn't like it, which is obstetric violence, which is what happens when women are not accompanied in that process or attended, as it is collected in international protocols and as it is collected in laws that defend women's sexual and reproductive health. We don't ask him a question, but we make him a suit. Investigate, continue with that investigation, but above all, it gives a clear order for international protocols to be complied with; if we do not return to this House, and the women who are here in the gallery will return to activism and go out on the street demanding that women's sexual and reproductive rights be respected. And that women in public health in Galicia have guaranteed all those rights, also in abortions in the second trimester of management. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u420	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u421	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that in the interpellation I said what the protocol is, I am going to read it again, because I believe that from this point of view it has not been understood by our honourable Member, who obviously makes the use of a serious problem that women have to go through. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Total demagoxy, absolute demagoxy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u422	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u423	Look at what the protocol says, and if the protocol is not valid, it can criticize the protocol, but the protocol has not spoken at all. I'll read the protocol, so it's clear. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, first of all, "Make the woman aware of the options contained in the law. Throughout the process, the team of psychologists is at the disposal of the patient's needs. When hospitalisation is needed from entry into the Xinecology Unit in the individual room, the gynecologist informs of the procedure where appropriate, performs the corresponding pharmacological prescription, be it prophylactic, analgesic, interventionist or any other." "The use of epidural analgesia is also the subject of questions and individualized in each case, taking into account the contraindications and side effects it may have in the case." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] "The nursing staff, both nurses and the nursing technicians of the plant, give women the necessary instructions and recommendations of the unit. The nurse establishes the individualized care plan based on the needs of the patient." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I know you don't like what I'm saying, because it's the protocol, but I'm going to tell you, I'm going to stop talking about this protocol. "And typically drug induction is done, which will be controlled by the plant medical and nursing equipment." "It must be noted that the use of drugs in the dilation process can shorten the expulsion process. In case of need of legrad, act in accordance with the protocol established by this procedure." I know you don't like listening to protocol, but that's what there is, that's what there is. That's it! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u424	Quiet, please. Quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u425	"The evolution and follow-up of the patient on the plant is re-established, a medical discharge report is issued where the recommendations are indicated." All of this is protocol. Logically, the protocol has to be carried out by all professionals in Galicia's public systems, and so they do, and so they will. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And logically when there are people within the organization who do not perform their duties, the councillor will act accordingly. There's no doubt about it, anyway. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What do you call attention...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u426	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u427	...that's what I was saying earlier, that there's no individual complaint from any patient in the You, which is the system we use in all of Galicia's EOXI to show suggestions or health care claims. There isn't, but, anyway, we're acting, not from now on, from time to time, watching for protocols to be fulfilled. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u428	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Marta Rodríguez Arias and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Government of Greece regarding the launch of the card Welcome, from 100 euros to the month for children born from 1 January 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u429	You have the floor to Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u430	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the birth support program launched by the Galician Union has three axes of action: direct aids, conciliation programs and services. Within the direct tips today we want to ask you a question about Welcome cards, a card that reaches 100 euros a month for children born on January 1st this year; a card with which parents and mothers can afford part of the expenses a baby has in their first moments of life. That is to say, food costs, hygiene costs or pharmaceuticals. The card has a multi-year funding of 18 million euros, and we today wanted to know, first, the agility in the process so that the families could request this card as early as 1 January this year, that more ambitious approach than you had from the beginning, which is to reach 85% of the families, and, above all, what we want to know is how this process was, how many families have requested the Welcome Card at this time, and what is the perspective of the Welfare Policy Council in relation to the provision of this Welcome Card. For now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u431	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u432	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, ladies and gentlemen, today, since this measure was launched on January 1st, we received more than 2,000 applications from the Welcome Card at the Social Policy Council. And I can tell you, I can tell you that 600 Greek families already have it and are using it for the intended purposes: purchase of food, hygiene products and pharmaceuticals for their babies. In this sense, I want to take the opportunity to thank the staff of the Social Policy Council for their work from this House, for their diligence and professionalism, first of all, for overcoming the challenge which I thought I would put into effect for the first time a measure of these characteristics and, secondly, to respond swiftly, even in anticipation of the deadlines set in the order of their convening on 30 December 2015. It must be remembered that the deadline for submission of applications for the card is two months after the day following the day of birth or adoption, and that the Board will resolve these applications within three months after the day following the application is submitted to one of our registers. Parents and mothers can make use of this card in pharmacies, parapharmacies, supermarkets and food stores. The device is loading correctly automatically every month with an amount of 100 euros, the amount that remains unused is added to the next month. Our ambition, the ambition of the Galician Union, is that Galicia is the most caring place for the needs of children. Children are a priority for their parents, first of all. Children are a priority for Galicia, secondly. But above all, if I'm a priority for your parents and if I'm a priority for Galicia, they also have to be a priority for the Government of Galicia. A challenge that is not enough for isolated measures, but we face, as this House knows, within a much broader plan. We are also the Community with higher deductions by birth. This year, as the president said this morning, we will be able to increase the coverage ratio of children's school squares to place it in 37%, 22.316 squares. I think that's the way and we all have to get these targets to work in the short and medium term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u433	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u434	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor. More than 2,000 families asked for that Welcome card, so you just made that data easier for us. More than 2,000 families in Galicia probably do not share the criticisms we have heard here since the announcement of the launch of that card Welcome, criticism and even ridicule to that card of Welcome for children born on January 1st. We're sure those over 2,000 families that have already requested the Welcome Card don't share those criticisms. As they don't share the criticism of the bond-conciliation for those families who don't have a square in a children's school in Galicia, for which Junta in Galicia spends EUR 3.4 million. Surely they do not criticise the rural welfare bonus, which has EUR 3 million this year. Nor do they criticize that, for the first time in Galicia, the ratio recommended by the European Union on children's school squares is met. Of course, we believe that focusing on the policy of the Galician Union and focusing on the policy of its counsellorship in families and children is right. You have to bet on families in Galicia, you have to bet on children and girls. And from our point of view, it's neither the first nor the only measure to welcome card, but it's an important measure. Of course, we hope that later he will bring us data from the families that are already using that card and that he will bring us data from other families who have requested it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u435	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u436	Thank you very much. Well, actually, we're talking about direct help to families. Families are a fundamental objective of our social policy, all the families of Galicia, and therefore measures like this, measures that are not left in advertisements in a House, in a debate of the state of Autonomy, but are realities. Of course, we've often heard here that it would be impossible that since January 1st, for budgetary reasons and for organizational reasons, it would have been possible. Today, I say, 2,000 applications, 600 families who have that card in their house, who are, of course, responding to the help they are doing from other countries around us and who have been reported here at other times. [[Applause]] And other measures, actually, because we're not just talking about direct help. Direct tips that are the card, direct tips that are tax deductions. What has to do with the policy of conciliation, as we said before, is that we have to assume the things that go well in Galicia. We are four points above the recommended European ratio of children's school squares. We also increase the number of children's schools, we continue to have a single payment for children under 3 years of age. And indeed this year, we will create the Council bond, with 1,400 new squares to get us to have no waiting list, so that parents and mothers who have children can reconcile their working life or their family life, or both their lives, because it's very important. And also another measure that we will also see this year is a measure that we also commit here, that for some causes ridicule and laughter, but Galicia owes itself to its rural environment and we have many municipalities of less than 5,000 inhabitants without conciliation resources, and this year we will create conciliation resources in those councils that up to this moment have no children's schools. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And it's nothing new. We have looked at European experiences around us, the collaboration of international experts to advise us on the creation of the Children's Houses in Galicia, which are supposed to be conciliation, so that we are not filled with talk about equal opportunities for urban and rural people, but we demonstrate it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we're going to prove it with conciliation policies, it would be like the Children's Houses, which also allow us to generate quality jobs in our rural areas, and they will also allow a very important thing: the return of a lot of people entitled...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u437	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u438	...to our rural one who had to go. So, I think that these three points of view are well worth continuing to work for the reconciliation, for the reconciliation of parents, for the reconciliation of mothers and for the families of Galicia and for their future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-03-16-DSPG145.u439	Thank you, Counselor. Out of items on the agenda, session up.
