ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u1	Good morning. Go take your seats, please. Let's restart the session. [[Murmurs.]] Good morning. Let us resume the session with agenda item 7, which corresponds to oral questions to the President of the Council of Galicia. Question by José Luis Méndez Romeu, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on information to the Galician Parliament on the functions developed in the Galician Union by a person declared as being investigated
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u2	Mr. President. Do you know dangerous friends? It's a very famous novel, libertine, which has even been taken to cinema several times. It's as much fun as immoral, and I recommend both novel and film, because it seems to you that the subject likes and even cultivates it fruitfully. 13 months ago I asked him here for his friend the winner, the shorts, the visitor of Montepío. You, faithful to your style, tried to splash all over the world without offering any documented explanation; all insinuations against others. His friend became, as before had happened to Luis Bárcenas, a stranger, one passing by, and while his pawns tried to distract his attention through the morbid way and only managed to compromise him more. Now a law firm is charging his friend with an alleged crime. Do you know what crime, Mr. Feijóo? Influence traffic. After thirteen months, and with a charge of trafficking in influence, can you explain to this House today what the influences and what the traffic were? The investigation portrays a commissioner from a fraud plot, an intermediary. Don't you think it's appropriate to explain? Or are we like in Valencia for years and years denying the evidence until there's a huge plot of corruption? You first show off dangerous friendships, such as drug traffickers or influence traffickers, intimate with them, to deal with them. When there's a problem, he puts himself on the role of a victim, a victim of naivety, like a modern candidia. You're a continued victim of evil, an innocent dove surrounded by predators. What are they after? Open doors for whom? Individual benefit, collective benefit or benefit from your organization? You are a member of the State PP directive, an organization accused, with all its economic officials in the history charged, in addition to Gürtel. You didn't know anything about it either, just a visitor. Is it a dove chain or rather tolerate corrupt behavior in its personal and political environment? I repeat the question, are you in a position to inform this House about the functions of your friend, without a public charge, Mr. Pachi Lucas? Your friend who appears portrayed in the courthouse in conversation, in calls to public officials, and who appears as a commissioner of a plot systematically dedicated to fraud with public funds. Mr. Feijóo, we've been waiting for you for 13 months, don't you think it's time to offer a documented explanation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u3	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, 13 months ago, in 2014, you were asking me a question in terms similar to ours. That day I told you that I wasn't going to go into the game of building a story of indirect implications for people who aren't here and can't talk about people who like you say don't have any public office or have any responsibility in the field that you and I are interested in. That's why, Your Honor, what you, who talks about documented explanations, doesn't mean to this House, is that this complaint now being investigated was brought in by this Government. That's documented, Your Honor, and it's documented because the car, this car, Your Honor, the first complainant on this car is the Junta de Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] I repeat, the Galician Union. But this Union of Galicia, not that you were a part of. So, Your Honor, when you talk about dangerous friendships, I'd like to know why you've been distinguished as one of the most investigated and accused people in this plot, but I'm sure you'll have some explanation. What I'm telling you, Your Honor, is that this Government has done and will do what it has to do always to defend Galicia's interests, affect those affected, and to investigate all of them, Your Honor. Don't be doubted. So, Your Honor, as we have made that complaint, a general director of the Spanish Socialist Workers' State Administration is now being investigated, a general director of the Bipartite is also being investigated, and also a general director of this Government is being investigated. And that's why they have to go declare different authorities of the Basque Government, of the Rioja Government, of the Cantabria Government. And so, Your Honor, we're surprised that when you were counsellor you hadn't done any research, nor had you filed any complaints. And as you're talking about documentation, you know the e-mails that appear in the summary, where one of the people specifically investigated is addressed to the general directors of the Bipartite and the advisor of the Bipartite. For what? To say you don't forget him, to say that he was very concerned because the People's Party had won the elections in March 2009, to ask him to make those grants that he had in process. And what was the result, gentlemen? It's reflected in the cars. The result was that at thirty days of losing your election you were in government on duty and they granted those subsidies. And what grants? About 40% more than they gave them years ago. Your Honor, why didn't you report this alleged plot? Look, Your Honor, if there's a difference between you and me. My friends are the general interests of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u5	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u6	...his own I don't know them yet. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u8	You try to explain in the House that the Socialist Government was financing your friend, the winner, for the benefit of the People's Party. We're going to get better, Mr. Feijó. Look, transparency, Mr. Feijóo, for you is a pose. More than a month ago, five weeks ago, we approved in this House a new legislation of transparency and more ambitious. They've been kidnapped for five weeks without publishing it. Something must say that bothers them especially. With transparency or without it you deny this House all kinds of documentation that is requested. We've been waiting for three years for you to send us documentation about another friend of yours you don't even know, who was Mr. Dorado. He already told us he worked with us and all that. It seems we're never going to have those documents, contracts or bills, because they'd probably leave you in a compromising situation. So you understand transparency? A common place for the postureum in the speeches of Madrid, but a terrible idea because it limits its autocratic conception of government? Mr. Feijóo, you flee, in principle, from giving explanations, from being in the Chamber, from denying documentation and, of course, from having TV Galega transformed into a presupply of adulation and manipulation. Autocratic behavior. And then it's surprising that no one wants to make a deal with you. But, Mr. Feijóo, they've been putting obstacles all their lives to make any kind of dialogue impossible. Today we know that the People's Party is like Ali Baba's cave, and even knowing that the forty thieves are already several hundred. And you, who passed by as a member of that board of directors, didn't even know. I ask you again, Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Pachi Lucas, quoted in the summary, is your friend, has participated even in meetings with members of the Government and with third persons, what is this person's relationship with the Government? Or just talk to you about the bulls...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u9	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u10	...to those who also attend Rajoy's and the defendant's company?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Replica by the President of the Union.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u12	Your Honor, I am sorry that you have not missed the opportunity to clarify why conversations and e-mails between the Bipartite and the person in front of that alleged plot are reflected in the summary. Yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] "Last year," he said to the person who was being investigated, "I already had 140,000 euros. If it could be improved for my group it would be a great breath." On March 10, 2009, ten days after losing the election, he says he feels like, "orphan of the March 1 result. I am in your hands," he said to the counsellor. "I will introduce myself to the Director General to thank him also for his collaboration and ask for your help." Go on. "Working guidance orders, the order of the social integration programme, the order of the FIP, etc., etc. are not solved." [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Answer, Your Honor, on 30 March, after receiving these e-mails, the Government in office is costing EUR 304,000 on the one hand, EUR 325,000 on the other. I mean, twice as much of the aid that was paid last year. Ma'am, do you think this is a minor matter? Do you think we need to talk about friends of Members or members of the Government? [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar speaks words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u13	Mrs. Gallego, be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u14	Look, Your Honor, there are Members in your group who have friends who are not only being investigated, no, Your Honor!, they have been arrested and accused. I do not think that I have asked any Member of that group to explain to us, of course not, because we understand that if a friend of that group member is arrested and accused, he will be in the personal sphere and will have that friend to answer. But, if you would, Your Honor, we enter this game, which seems absolutely inappropriate to me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, what you never want to clarify in this House, and I read in a newspaper: "The Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia investigates for alleged falsehood and cheats Mrs xxx of the Socialist Party", sitting on its seats. Ma'am, do you want me to answer here for people I know, when it turns out you don't answer for Members who are part of your group? Your Honor, exactly what are we being accused of? [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I deeply regret... by the way, do you know your party secretary general? Is he a friend of his? With him? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Do you follow your instructions? Probably. Too bad, Your Honor, that your party's secretary-general hadn't chosen you as a lawyer to be able to declare in the Lugo trial! so we would clarify a lot of things and you wouldn't have to go to the friends of the governments, to the friends of the MPs when you have... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u15	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u16	...in your group and in your secretary general this situation. Mr. Méndez Romeo, and I say it with absolute constructive courage, you must read and watch the film of dangerous friends. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the intention of the Government of Galicia in connection with the preliminary draft aquaculture law of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u18	Mr. Jorquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, do you have anyone to rule for? Since you're talking about government in functions, aren't you the one who proposed to limit the decisions of a government in terms of dealing with matters of procedure? Does it seem like a procedure to hand over the stream from Pontevedra to Ence for at least sixty more years? Does it seem like a hypothetical procedure, in passing, for at least sixty more years, our forest policy? [[Applause]] The River Pontevedra-Ence and the rest of the rivers to the multinational aquariums? Look, I didn't even say that you have to bet on policies that unite and not split. Well, I have to congratulate you, because your Government has managed to join the entire area of the sea: environmental organizations and political groups in the unanimous rejection of the Aquaculture Law. Our maritime and coastal sector generate 33,000 jobs, they are the economic support of entire regions, and their Government presents a draft aquaculture law without counting on the sector and back to the sector. A law that doesn't even mention the mexillon, the support of our traditional aquaculture, a law that doesn't address any of the problems of the sector, such as the lack of sanitation of our rivers, the lack of protection of our mariners or the lack of value for our products, while its Government continues to be unable to market Chilean mussel as a Greek. You guys, who do you rule for? Because instead of addressing these problems, they present a law designed to dismantle our primary productive sectors, those that generate life and employment in society, to replace them with intensive fishing on an industrial scale. How should Article 54, transforming shellfish into aquaculture?, how should the figure of sectoral management plans be understood, which will allow the current use of space and the implementation of industrial aquaculture, even eliminating protective mechanisms such as environmental impact analysis? Look, Mr. Feijóo, it's not true what you said before, your friends aren't the general interests of Galicia, your friends are the lobbies, you rule your saying as they did with Ence, subjugating the general interest in the interests of an administrative council. You intend to privatize our sea to favour the landing of large industrial aquaculture companies, even if it is at the expense of destroying the socio-economic fabric of our coastal regions and further degrading the environmental quality of our rivers. So, Mr Feijóo, are you willing to respond to the social cry and remove the draft aquaculture law?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Jorquera. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, this preliminary draft, as you have just defined, which is not law, what you basically want to answer is three questions: the first one, consolidating and improving the first objective of the Greek aquaculture. The second, preparing the Galician aquaculture, that is, the Greeks who dedicate themselves to aquaculture for the globalized world, why? Because first we want to export and second we know perfectly that Chileans and Scots have a great capacity to introduce products into the markets that we want to export, and even in the Spanish market, into the Greek market. And third, what we're trying to do is justly stabilize and give legal security to 5,400 families living in the sea sector in Galicia. So, Your Honor, what we're looking for is the optimal use of resources. Yes, Your Honor, maintaining the future of these 5,400 families, the first goal. And the second goal is because we think it's possible that more families live from aquaculture, shellfish and bass. So, ladies and gentlemen, what we're trying to do is give these families legal coverage; what we're trying to give them legal security; what we're trying to shield these families from theft; what we're trying to do is that these families can receive European funds; what we want, Your Honor, is that these families live better in the coming years, because we believe that this is our objective and our obligation. So, Your Honor, we must avoid the mistakes of the past, first so that no one takes advantage of these families in the face of a structure and an activity that is not regulated. And second, Your Honor, because we have to choose between doing what Chileans do or doing what the Greeks do, and we want to be, precisely, and having an aquaculture like they have in Norway, Alaska or Scotland. That's why, Your Honor, we're working for seafood, and we're working for the mexillion sector, and that's why we're working for fish farming. Your Honor, this is not an improvisation, no! this comes from the election program of the People's Party, this comes from the Greek Aquaculture Strategy that we approved in the year 12 without allegations. This comes, Your Honor, from the documents that we have presented in the European Union and from which we have been congratulated. This comes from the Committee of the Regions document, which has been adopted unanimously by the European regions and considers Galicia to be a suitable place and we have the right rules. And this comes, for example, because we are FAO advisers and I myself, in Rome, have signed with the FAO president to advise the rest of the countries on aquaculture. But, Your Honor, you have no doubt, we know and we know perfectly well the families of the sea. Most people vote for the People's Party – the families of the sea – and most of them who vote for the People's Party will continue to vote for this party, and you know what? We're not going to let them down, not because they vote for the People's Party, no, we're exactly the same as those who vote, what we're worried about, Your Honor, is that this law reflects exactly what they want, and that's why I don't hide it, Your Honor,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u23	... that we're going to make a stop on the way in law processing, immediately, and we're going to open tables of dialogue with the drummers, with the Marquean people, with the confrries. And that's why, ladies and gentlemen, we're not going to pass that law without the support of the sector, because that law is just born to support the sector. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, it must be due to legal certainty that you introduce in that preliminary draft by which more than 5,000 families are contented and assembled to applaud your Government. Please land, or in this American case, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] Look, I'm glad you say you're going to make a stop on the road, but it's not enough, because the problem is that the project isn't reformable, it's only necessary to remove it, because all of its articulates are geared towards implanting a model that isn't what Galicia needs, Mr. Feijóo, a model that destroys more jobs than she creates, the same thing that happens to Ence, Mr. Feijóo. Industrial aquaculture is intensive, capital and technology, but it only creates jobs. Do you know how many jobs there are in Norway, the great European power in this field? 5,900, that is, the sixth part of the jobs linked to our shellfish and traditional aquaculture, to which you give your back. The law bets on a model that is not sustainable, from a social point of view, nor environmental. Industrial aquaculture uses pharmacological products and non-natural thinking that damage the marine environment, which are incompatible with promoting food quality. In addition, the law opens up the possibility of installing plants in spaces of the Natura Network, authorizes the cultivation of all kinds of species, including exotic and alien species, which can become invasive species of our marine environment, but, above all, Mr. Feijóo, the law betting for privatizing the sea, for privatizing the public domain, as they also did with Ence; does not elude their responsibilities. The Board has not only issued a favorable report, but has accepted an amendment to the Law of Back which extends concessions on public domain for seventy-five years, that is the problem, and you are privatizing the public domain. Look, Mr. Feijóo, I'm done. We've often told him that you're selling Galicia for plots, now we'd have to add that it's also selling our sea. So, Mr. Feijóo, withdraw the preliminary draft, rule over our people, for our people, stop ruling for the multinationals.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u26	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Replica, closing time for Mr. President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u27	Your Honor, we know the difficulties of explaining sometimes what you want to do. You guys also presented an aquatic plan, don't you remember? He had 1,047 claims when you were in the Government, and they stopped the Aquaculture Plan; so, Your Honor, we know the difficulties of doing things. Do you remember that in 1984 there was a general strike in Cangas because they wanted to put on beatings? Now there's 100 million euros that we're billing with the cultivation of the mussel. And that's why, Your Honor, I tell you, you speak what you want, we know the sector and we know it well, and we know that the sector is worried about this law. And that's why I repeat to you that we will stop this law until the sector sees what's done for them, to guarantee them, so they can get European funds and so they can protect themselves exactly from the companies you say, exactly from the companies that want to speculate and that they don't want to create jobs. [[Applause]] And that's why, Your Honor, during our term of office 500 bats were sold, and none of those companies got these bats, because to get a bat the first thing to do is to have a permit issued by the council. By the way, Your Honor, when we arrived at the Government the project was to leave the concessions of the drummers dead and take them out of competition and publicity. What we have done is we have extended them for thirty years, and now this law is expected to extend them to fifty years. That's why we have no drawback in talking to the drummers of this, nor do we have any drawback in talking to the sailors of this, and that's why we have no drawback in talking about aquaculture, no drawback, Your Honor! Look, there are a number of allegations that we have already made, for example, that aquaculture or fish farming cannot be developed in mexillon polygons. For example, we have agreed that the ropes of all bats may not exceed 6,000 meters, of all bats of Galicia, and we have pacts which must be the new areas other than the current crops where you can only put in these new areas of aquaculture. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we know the sector, how are we not going to know when we are ensuring that 82% of the fishing funds go to the growers of mussels and bats? How are we not going to know them when we give them legal certainty in the concessions that you wanted to get out of advertising and competition? Ladies and gentlemen, how are we not going to work with the Marishers if we had to hold a demonstration sponsored by the Socialist Party in the year 2000 because they didn't want them to be part of the Social Institute of the Navy? Thanks to the fact that we didn't listen to you today, the seamstresses have unemployment insurance and retirement at the Social Institute of the Navy. By the way, Your Honor, we are willing to continue working. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, what we want is that seafarers can receive European funds, what we want is that they can have insurance financed from European funds, what we want is that they can have support for the seed. What we want, Your Honor, is to work with the confrereries, with the drummers and the maricadores, and that's why I repeat to him again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u28	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u29	Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Don't worry, Mr. Jorquera. As long as the sector doesn't see that this law is the law of the sector, the law won't be passed. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u30	Thank you, President. He asks Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the policy of the Greek Government in relation to the protection of a life worthy of the majority of society
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u31	Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u32	Mr. Feijóo, we just heard a few minutes ago a stony phrase, which may pass into history, "My friends are Galicia's general interests." Would you not intend to bring a parliamentary initiative to declare Martial Dorada and Pachi of Lucas people of general interest in Galicia? Or perhaps the route Picos de Europa, Andorra, Estoril, London of tourist interest in Greek? I wouldn't be surprised. We asked you today, Mr Feijóo, whether you are going to rectify policies that do not guarantee the protection of a decent life for people. We tell him because you are the machines of causing inequality, injustice, poverty, defeat, social exclusion and suffering. The imposition of bad policies called austerity is only austerity for those below. Just remember the names of Bárcenas, Mouse, Blessing, Pokémon, Pikachu, Gürtell or Operation Zeta with his friend Patchi de Lucas to know that this austerity is selective and not for those above. But the cuts kill, Mr Feijóo, and the characteristic of these policies is that they put numbers above people, and they turn people into numbers, and one case and a very clear example of these policies is what is expressed in the prosecutor's complaint about the delay in granting treatment to hepatitis C patients, where it shows that the unjustified delay in granting these treatments cost lives, Mr Feijóo. The general attitude of the Board of Health and Sergas, in this case, was clearly dilatory and restrictive, there was opacity, there was no unification of criteria, there were no known deadlines, and even the affected platform reported that there was a long time, many weeks, that this board was using more restrictive criteria than those already permitted by the Government of the State, thus preventing people who would be entitled to such treatment in other autonomous communities in Galicia from having access to it. His actions in this matter caused suffering and death. You voted here against a very simple petition of the affected, that if a Sergas specialist doctor had prescribed a treatment he should immediately reach a person, since he depended on his life or death. You defied, and wanted to be the champions of austerity, and were amended in less than 20 days by the government itself, who accepted and approved the requests of the affected to be dispensed with immediately. There were sick, Mr. Feijóo, who waited eight months for a treatment that was late. Do you know how a person feels when he's in this situation, when he sees the months, when he has to take a treatment of between three and six months and he knows what his life depends on? Will you take responsibility for this case, Mr Feijóo? Will you change your policies to ensure decent housing, decent work, health for all and teaching for all, Mr Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u34	Mr. Sánchez, I welcome your responsibilities as spokesperson for the House minority group. I'm convinced you're starting to be the spokesperson for the House minority group, because it seems that you always speak in the name of people, you're the people, you're the common people. You invent democracy, point to the leader of the Socialist Party, who, after having the worst result of his history, will make him president as a result of the "single of fate"... [[Laughter]] But, look, Your Honor, this is Spain, this is no other country you know better, and in Spain it is different to draw 123 Members than 69; and in Galicia, Your Honor, it is quite different to draw 10 Members in Congress than 6; and it is quite different to draw 12 senators than 2. [[Murmurs.]] And in the House it is quite different to have 41 Members than 6. That's why, Mr. Sánchez, there you are, I don't think you're starting very well, but, at last, that's a matter that in your group of We can have to digest little by little. Look, Your Honor, you tell us that we're changing policies, and the question is, why, for yours? You criticize this government for increasing public debt, and then you criticize us for spending more than we spend. You criticize us because it is necessary to help families, but then you vote against lowering taxes on low-income families, lowering income tax, abolishing inheritance tax or zeroing taxes in rural areas. You tell us that we have to support the families, but they vote against the nursery bonus, and they vote against the welcome card for the children who are born in 2016. We are told, ladies and gentlemen, that you are specialists in helping those who have little, but the only income of social integration in Galicia is that which funds the Galician Union, the only one! Your Honor, would you invent social integration incomes in the municipalities, in what councils, Your Honor? They are unable to approve even a budgetary change in the municipalities where they rule, and it turns out they want to give us lessons in social policy. You tell us that you have to pay the dining room to those who have money, to the children of the parents who have money. Look, Your Honor, we paid the dining rooms to the vast majority of the Greeks, and that's why we created 10,000 new dining rooms. And that's why, Your Honor, you're against, for example, the German universities being the cheapest universities in the state. Yes, when it comes to ruling, they're incapable of managing a public dining room. Look, Mr. Sánchez, what social policies do we have to copy? The social policies of this Government give a thousand turns to the policies of the municipal governments where you, with the support of the Socialist Party, are ruling, one thousand times, Your Honor! They haven't done anything in social policy since they arrived in the Greek Town Councils in June.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u35	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u36	We have nothing to copy from you, Your Honor. That's right, what we're proud of is to vaccinate more than 3,000 Welsh against hepatitis C. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u38	So I see a new political time is being inaugurated, where the PP is already taking control over most of the change. Mr. Feijóo, don't let it down, you're very predictable, and I think it's good for you to assume, psychologically, the work of opposition, I think, but suddenly you're President of the Greeks and the Greeks, Mr. Feijóo, and you should have a little respect and answer what you're asked. And he continues to confuse the diagnosis, Mr. Feijóo. I thank you for all the advice given to us by the Alternative Left Galega every time you speak, I thank you, but I think you should be thinking about looking at yours, because election call after election call loses thousands and thousands of votes, and you think that the problem is AGE, that the problem is the tides. Mr. Feijóo, precisely the problem is all those collectives that, like today, you are despising. You are disregarding the affected platform of hepatitis C today, which wants answers from the President of the Government, and does not want answers from what the opposition does to the opposition, Mr. Feijóo. And while you're president of the government, you should have some respect and give answers to citizenship. Because whoever will evict them from power is not AGE, they are not the Tides, they are the majority assaulted by their policies all these years, they are the sick of hepatitis C, they are the preferentialists, they are the mariners of the siege, Mr. Feijóo, they are the preferentialists, they are the anti-defusion platforms, Mr. Feijóo. Or do you think that one affected by hepatitis C who has suffered from the experience of having to suffer anguish for months of waiting for treatment that would save his life, and that if he had EUR 50,000 he could enjoy in this country, do you think that this has no effect on his political thinking, Mr Feijóo? Do you think it has no consequences for your political action? So multiply that by the thousands of people, men and women, who you assaulted and condemned not to have a decent life, and that's the political-organized response that will evict them from power. And you go on like this, confusing yourself, without the trees letting you see the woods. Look for – and this is advice I give you, Mr Feijóo – the root causes of the People's Party debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u39	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u40	Look, Your Honor, mixing hepatitis C with housing, with preference, with siege and election results is your speech, and responding to Galician union social policy is my duty. And that's why, when you talk about problems aren't the Tides, what do you tell me? So ask the leader of Podemos, Mr. Riobóo, I don't speak to myself about the Tides, or Podemos, or the United Left; don't tell me about these things, Your Honor, because the first thing we heard when you came to Congress is to say three things: first, they want referendums of independence – in Galicia too – as if the Greeks were fools, as if you were now to invent Galicia, as if the Greeks we have lived here since we were born suddenly discovered the prophets of the earth, that is, you, who come to tell us what we are and who want to sit on the psychoanalyst divan to ask us where we came from and what we are. Your Honor, you don't treat us like a child, leave adolescent politics and talk about the issues that are of interest to the Greeks. Look, Your Honor, how can you say that in Galicia we are not exempting the treatment of hepatitis C when there are 3,000 treated Greeks? How can you say in this House that we refuse treatment to people when it's the optional criterion that exempts such treatment? How can you say this, Your Honor, when there were all the control and working sessions in the interterritorial council to believe the dispensation protocols and from there we strictly complied with those protocols? We're one of the most ill-treated autonomous communities on hepatitis C, we invested 75 million euros in one year in hepatitis C. We vaccinated more people than was expected in the protocol. Your Honor, don't insult the officials of the Galego Health Service, don't insult the public health officials, don't insult the public health service; if you don't want to defend it, I'll defend it while you're president of the board. Your Honor, I will defend my public health service. [[Applause]] And that's why, Your Honor, now you are no longer exclusively on the banners, is that I am Government, and you are ruling in important villages of Galicia, in the Coruña, in Santiago and in Ferrol, so, what is your social policy? Remove subsidies from the economic kitchen? Reduce subsidies to homeless people's shelters? What is your social policy?, not being able to manage a school dining room in Santiago de Compostela? What is your social policy, Mr. Sánchez? His social policy does not exist, and since June, which took possession, the Galician Union has made a plan against inequality, yes!, and we have solved more than 380 cases of wasteful problems, and we have signed with the banks to make housing available, and we have signed with the electric companies that there are no supply cuts. Yes, Your Honor, and we created a card for children born in Galicia with fewer resources from their country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u42	...and we eliminate the succession tax, and lower the income tax to people with lower incomes. Mr. Sánchez, I repeat, the social policies of the Galician Union give a thousand turns to Podemos, the Tides, the United Left and more continuums that have in other groups [[Protests.]] Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u43	Thank you. We continue with the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. Proposal for a non-law of the G.P. Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of the Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez and Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government to ensure the right to a decent housing, to avoid the consequences of the evictions and to prevent the cuts of basic supplies to vulnerable persons and family units in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u44	No amendments have been tabled to this proposal, and for the defence of this non-law proposal Mr. Pombo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u45	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u46	Quiet, quiet, please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u47	The BNG Parliamentary Group today brings a proposal to this plenary... [[Murmurs.]] Good day
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u48	I'm sorry, it's not about courses, it's about equipment. [[Laughter]] We'll know how to discern things, the course we have here, what fails is the system, and this happens from time to time, there's no problem with it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u49	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President, for the resolution of this little problem in comparison with what we are going to talk about in this non-law proposal about the need for measures to guarantee the right to a decent housing and to avoid the terrible consequences of the evictions in Galicia. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate before this non-law proposal in order to guarantee the right to a decent housing in our country is a recurring debate, but the BNG considers it appropriate to deal with it again in this Parliament because of the current lamentable situation of the same – no more than last week's press – should be read. The unfortunate permanent drama of the defeats at first moment by mortgage executions, and today, more today, by disqualifications of the rent. Unfortunate permanent drama that the German Government has not been able to shorten, nor to guarantee the fundamental right to life, to the dignity of people and to their integral development near 10,000 Greek families while Mr. Feijóo's Government lasts. Unfortunately, the Government of Greece has neither been able to stop the evictions; nor to protect people – if the private bank – nor to guarantee the right to housing; nor to cut down on social emergencies; nor to approve a law of Galician housing that could solve these problems, promoting sufficient housing, promoting urgent measures to guarantee the right to housing, urgent measures to address energy poverty and thus collecting the cry of society concerned by the alarming situation of housing urgency. Ladies and gentlemen, the Union has not been able to guarantee the right to housing worthy of all and all of the Greeks because the Government of the current President of the Union understands only ongoing cuts in housing and rehabilitation policies. In his reign cut more than 700 million euros, while for the Bank and to clean up the Welsh bank more than 9,000. The GNP that we are debating today was presented by the BNG, but it is a complaint of the affected, of the platforms affected by the mortgages and of the Stop Defections of Galicia, which have registered in this Parliament and that the only thing the Block does is defend. These affected have been reporting for some time that the current economic crisis and rising unemployment has caused many families to be unable to cope with mortgage quotas and at present even the rent of their usual housing. We share the struggle to make this problem visible. And, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot continue to rule in favour of the bank and those who are guilty of the impoverishment of the social majority. The platforms affected by mortgages and Stop evictions say that the crisis and the increase in unemployment has resulted in the violation of the right to a housing worthy of thousands of Galicians and Greeks who are forced to face situations of severe vulnerability, extreme precariousness, poverty and social, economic and residential exclusion. The data from the General Council of the Judiciary speak of a number of unbearable mortgage executions – I am not going to enter the debate on whether many or few are impossible!– To these alarming figures it is necessary to add the increase of the difficulties in coping with the payment of rent to more and more Greek families, who are not numbers, who are people. Last week we read as Vanessa Bregua, with two children aged 6 and 9, ended the rent of a housing subsidised by the board of Galicia. He has nowhere to go and the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo says he has to be patient, because there are no houses and he only has a 36 square meters apartment. Patience for a 35-year-old woman who lost her parents being very young, who passed through a juvenile center, who has two children, who has suffered from gender violence and who is now convicted of having her children go through what happened to her. And this is a case, it's a number, but we could talk about Augusto Pérez in Teis; we could talk about Israel and Mariano Calvary, and we could talk about thousands of families who will be thrown into a similar situation, a real drama! Many of these families are condemned to a drama and to social death, because many of them are incurred in unpaid mortgages throughout their lives. We are faced with an emergency situation that is not cut short, because the Galician Union does not have enough housing to rent to cope with this problem, despite the fact that in Galicia there are thousands of empty homes, many of them owned by Abanca. There is a recognized right that, when we sit in the seats of this Parliament, if you tell us that we have to promise, and that is the right to a decent housing. But also the right and duty of the public authorities to promote the necessary conditions and the relevant rules to enforce this right, but the terrible drama continues. For this reason, we know that there are many communities that already take action, knowing that the Greek Parliament has the power to take and put in place tools to eliminate this terrible scourge, for that reason we ask this Parliament, repeatedly and for the second time, to support what the platforms claim. And it's nothing other than to urge the State Parliament to amend the Mortgage Law and the Civil Corrections Act to make possible the retroactive and debt-giving donation with the payment of debt to debtors who in our country exceed 8,000. Also to make possible the automatic elimination of declared abusive clauses that affect globally, and will affect more than 30,000 families in the future. To prevent, in some ways, the execution of the housing for the evaluators, who are often caught up in a terrible drama, which is usually the families. And they also demand these platforms to urge Galician board itself to carry out the following measures to guarantee the right of housing: to exempt banking entities – which have caused the property bubble, which have imposed abusive ground clauses, which have commercialized toxic assets to thousands of families – that guarantee the social rent for families living in the homes of their property, to guarantee people and family units in a vulnerable situation, that they cannot cope with the payment of the rent, the help needed to prevent them from being defeated. And they demand the creation of a sufficient public housing park through the mobilization of empty apartments in the hands of financial entities and real estate subsidiaries; ensuring and preventing the cuts of basic water, light and gas supplies of vulnerable persons and family units; and the creation – and ending – of a housing observatory, made up of representatives of the institutions and civil society, observatory that would be responsible for investigating and analysing the housing situation in Galicia and the state, and even making proposals. I hope that all parliamentary groups will vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal that upholds the BNG, but that responds to the demands of social platforms that fight and visualize and claim the right to a decent housing for the most vulnerable sectors of our society.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u51	I hope that all parliamentary groups will vote in favour. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u52	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u53	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, President. This initiative presented by the BNG, the Galego Nationalist Block, on the need for measures to guarantee the right to a decent housing and to avoid the terrible consequences of the evictions in Galicia has two sections. In the first, he urged the Central Government of the State to change the legislation it is applying with regard to this issue, to defiance. A mortgage law imposed by decree under the Frankish dictatorship in 1946 seems worthy of being revised and renewed, at least. A law that allows banks to keep their homes auctioned at half their price and still imposes the payment of the debt. Thousands of families lost their homes and with them also lost the hopes of a better future, and why, because the debt remaining with the bank or financial entity makes it impossible for them to recover. Many families, thousands, have also witnessed the execution of the evaluators' dwellings, often their parents, despite being the only habitual dwellings of these evaluators. Under this mortgage law, hundreds of families are denied a donation in payment of what, on the other hand, can benefit the large real estate. Many of these large real estates linked to their origin with their own financial institutions, repeatedly rescued, such as Bankia, and of those who were creditors and then shareholders, many banks and foreign funds. A civil adjustment law regulating the execution of mortgages contrary to European legislation. The European Court of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, considers that Spanish mortgage executions are contradictory to European legislation and that the 2013 PP Disappearance Act violates human rights; and that is what the European Court of Justice says. An effective legislation that allows mortgages containing unfair clauses – such as ground clauses – and interest of delay of up to 20%, as indicated by different judges. When a right, in this case, to a decent housing, collected in the Spanish Constitution, is left to the hands of the speculative economy, it is jeopardizing the free access of the population to this right. For years in Spain and other European countries high-risk mortgages were granted in order to speculate with them on markets and move large amounts of non-existent money. When this enrichment activity ends with the explosion of the real estate bubble, it's the people who are at the base of the economic pyramid who have to pay the broken plates, and those people put their face to the proponent of this GNP. Thousands of families affected by the crisis and labour market reforms are still unable to cope with the payments of mortgage credit on an absolutely overvalued housing, acquired in the splendor of the bubble. Between 1999 and 2007, the price of housing in Spain rose to around 180 per cent, but, in parallel, the rental market never developed. And so we find ourselves in a sense that entire families are sent to the street when there are plenty of empty dwellings. In the second part of this GNP, she urges the Council to take a number of measures to guarantee a dignified life that respects the right to housing and basic supply. By the state of institutional and legislative disappearance in which people are affected by abusive mortgages and evictions, and because having a place to live is a right whose violation affects the dignity of people and their social, family, personal and emotional development, I support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u54	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u55	Well, we're also going to support this initiative, it couldn't be any other way, besides being an initiative that would have a completely different approach to what is being done, and that would do it in an integral way. But basically, what we believe is that what you're living with the drama of evictions is a cluster of circumstances that are not random, it has to do with the definition of housing as a business, it has to do with an economic system based on real estate speculation and its repercussions on banks and finance; you can't drop that, I suppose, and therefore you don't bet on going from living as a business to housing as a right. A cluster of circumstances such as low wages and poverty, because in the first phase of the crisis there were many defeats for mortgages that had certain amounts, but today many of them are because they cannot afford rents of 200, 300 euros, from families that have no income more than, perhaps, a Risk, etc. That is what is happening today, it is poverty, it is poverty, as the ESC report says, the monographic on poverty, the poverty that has increased in recent years in this country. Poverty, severe material wealth, is the rate of low-employment homes, which has increased even in recent years, and has to do with the unwillingness of the People's Party to change this, and to move on to the right of housing. And that's why we think we need to start talking about renting public park, regulating the private rental market and also improving the living conditions of people, employment and the quality of the same job, and not walking, as we are walking, to work precariously, which makes even workers who have a salary, that salary doesn't even give them to guarantee housing. And without talking about a change of focus, we also want to talk about the effectiveness of the Popular Party's measures to prevent, first, the occurrence of defeats and, then, to give these people a solution of realism, and in both cases it is a failure. Defeat figures are kept year by year stable, and already after announcing several Galician joint programs to solve this issue. Therefore, they are not working, nor are these circumstances foreseen, nor in the case – as the spokesman of the Nationalist Block Galego has just explained – to reach the limit of the rejection of the announced solutions, and which appears to be there, when the specific case arrives and reality does not work. They didn't work in Ourense when a woman was offered a residence 100 kilometers away; they don't work in Vigo when she's offered a home in Tomine; and therefore, despite the announced housing, there's no housing to re-welcome. In fact, the previous Royal Program, in a period where more than 2,000 challenges occurred, has only managed to reallocate 43 cases. Therefore, if the People's Party with these data on the maintenance of defiance and failure of royale programs is not willing here to rectify its policies, then it has no desire to change. We believe, moreover, that there is every condition to start making another public housing policy. There are 300,000 empty homes, there are housing that should be used for that rental public park, only political will. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u56	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u57	Very good morning. And thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. The GNP presented today by the Nationalist Block Galego is not a novelty, at all, it's themes that we've seen around all this legislation. It's a novelty, indeed, in some aspects of its formulation, but not strictly in the objective that pursues this non-law proposition. Even some of its concrete contents have motivated amendments made by the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the General Budgets Act of June 2016; I'm thinking of two, which is the creation of a public housing park, one, and another, the creation of the housing observatory. You don't have to say that both amendments were rejected by the majority of Parliament and didn't prosper. But beyond the concrete content of this proposal – which I will then make some reference – what will motivate our support is the diagnosis that makes the situation, the diagnosis that makes the gravity of this situation and, above all, what reflects a lack of proper response and the extent to which the circumstances require by the Government of the United States of Galicia. Government of the Galician Union that we must remember that, in the wake of the provisions of the Galician Housing Act, it has exclusive competence in the area of housing policy in our community. He was Gaba, a few months ago, at this very plenary session, the matter's advisor, who is not present right now, but he was proud of the work done by his department. They would remember their lordships talking about the 43 families that were relocated from the homes they had prepared for that purpose to the Autonomous Community. He even spoke of the 157 families who, by hosting the Gender Violence Protection Program, had also obtained their housing. We're talking over seven years, and even boasted of the 100 dwellings that were obtained in the agreements with the financial institutions. The truth is that all of this is just a drop of water compared to the magnitude of the problem we are facing, Your Honor. We are talking about more than 12,000 defeats, and we always have the debate – I see that Mr. Castineira looks at me – that it is not exactly defined which are the main dwelling and which is not. It is clear that in seven years, having exclusive competence to the Autonomous Community, he could have done this study, and he has not done so for seven years, surely because he had no interest, and I have just asked yesterday afternoon for the list of housing applicants, and there are 12,978 of them 10,800 claiming official protection housing or public promotion housing, and in view of that, the response of the Board is absolutely insufficient. I will no longer insist on the €200,000 envisaged in 2016 to address those affected by evictions, which clearly imply what sensitivity is and what is the lack of response to this issue. Therefore, in this situation, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of the BNG proposal, which actually contains two very different aspects. On the one hand, a number of requests must be submitted to the Parliament of Spain and, on the other hand, a number of proposals which must be developed by the Council of Galicia. If we understand that this was exactly what we were going to do, we would logically go into nudging the content of these proposals and these measures, which in some cases require the corresponding slaughter. But as we understand that this is not expected to prosper, we are going to vote in favour, simply, and essentially, to put on the table the magnitude of the problem and the need to give you a response to what circumstances require. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u58	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, Mrs. Sueiro, I wanted to tell you that you disappointed me, had it for a serious, responsible person, and listen to it here about 20% late interest, and listen to it asking for a reform of the law, when there was a reform of the law in 2013, and when there were a series of important changes, and even – as I told you – of the interest of delay that happened – fortunately, and it must be said – to the history of those 20% interests. Let's not keep talking about it, because then we won't move on. That was years ago, not now since the People's Party's Government entered Madrid, that these things have changed, but that must be said and remembered. Logically, it's funny to some, because it bothers them to do things and move on. Because we keep going on, and Mr. Pombo brings an initiative, and I'm largely going to tell him that I agree, and that's how it coincides with the Government of the Union, in large part, that he's taking those measures that are being done, and I'm going to prove it. You were talking, for example, about the fact that no one throws it out of their homes or cuts it off basic electrical supplies, for example. And that's a deal with the power companies here in Galicia, pioneer, and it's the energy ticket, so that no one, no one, if you cut the electricity out of pay, as long as you're a family in a vulnerable situation. And that exists and has been working for several months in this country, in this country that is Galicia. And in measures he's taking the Galician Union in the last few years he's been there. It was a law of Welsh housing, we have it, and the houses of official protection, and no galley is thrown out and is deprived of a housing of public promotion or official promotion since the entry into force of Law 8/2012, of Galician residence. The Realoxo program, yes, you get upset, ask the forty-most families who benefited from that program whether it is or not. Will it be little?, okay, maybe we should ask the great collaboration that the City Council of the Crown is doing – it's progressive, and tides now – or Vigo's, which is where the most problems are because the municipalities, precisely, refuse to collaborate with the Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u60	Quiet. Could Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u61	You've solved Vigo, yes, yes. The problem and reality are there. The joint agreement with the General Power Council. (Speak words that are not perceived. Anyway! There's a joint agreement with the General Council of the Judiciary and with the Fegamp to give solution and answer before the problems occur, knowing in advance so that you can analyze the situations. The Recondus programme. The Reconduce Program, which is a program of several advisors, including with Fegamp as well, and with the College of Social Assistants and Social Workers, where 365 families – two years have been cared for – have been launched in October of last year, 2014, and it has been – as I say – two years working and has been attended by 365 families. The RehaVita Plan, which clearly provides for measures to favour families who need it most and to encourage and complement the Royal Programme. The agreement with Sareb, which is something you come here to say again; that is, there are 240, not 100. Now there are 240 dwellings of the agreement that they made with Sareb to use them as housing for social rent. I mean, they're there. And the agreement with the People's Valedor or agreements with several financial entities, such as Abanca, Caixa Rural Galega or Banco Sabadell galego. That is, where there is a number of housing and a commitment by these financial institutions not to evict any family from their home and convert that, if it is indeed a mortgage, to convert the housing into social rent, not exceeding the 75 euros monthly, in no case. The social rental bonus, which approved the Board of Directors in August 2015, where there are assistance to families most in need of 150 euros monthly for one year, which can be extended another year, and an initial aid of 450 euros for late payments or special situations. That's also there, and it's enough for next year to forecast up to 13 million euros to invest this year, 13 million euros, not 200,000 euros, Mr Bugallo. Because everything is social housing policy, EUR 13 million in that sense. Or the census of empty dwellings, which is something else you're putting here at the observatory,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u63	...the supply of empty housing where it will be compulsory for financial institutions and Sareb to specify exactly the destination of their homes. Logically, what you're doing together are policies – and you're going to continue to do with them – of helping families with lower incomes, and so you've been benefiting last year 6,387 families, and for this year we're hoping that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u65	...that number of families is growing too much, so we can continue to help...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u66	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. [[Applause]] Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u67	Thank you, President. First of all, thank you for the support of the Joint Group, the Gaga de Left Alternative and the PSOE for supporting the demand for this Parliament which makes the platforms affected by mortgages and more Stop Galician evictions. I support to guarantee the right to a decent housing for everyone and all the Greeks and the Greeks, and to guarantee basic supplies to families at risk of exclusion. To regret that Mr Castineira once again tells us about the ten commandments, those ten measures which, in fact, are there and put them into effect in Galician Union, but the social reality tells us that they are not enough, because what is missing is the fundamental, money, money to solve this. Because there are 10,000 Greek families affected by a drama that is the tragedy of the mortgage, which will not pay throughout their lives. There are 20,000 or 30,000 more who will continue at that stage, and now those who are at the stage of being rented will see how they go to the street despite the ten commandments of these who have just spoken to us by Mr. Castineira. It increases social drama and reality, stops and increases social inequality. Last week, an international confederation of organizations operating in humanitarian work in ninety countries was talking about increasing social inequality: the richer and richer, the poorer and poorer. Sixty-two people accumulate more wealth than 3,600 million inhabitants, half the world's population. And at state level twenty people accumulate more wealth than nine million people. At Galicia we already know, I don't know if it's the first, I don't know if we have the richest first or the second, but inequality runs the democratic system, because no real measures are taken, you can't continue to legislate for the rich and the bank, that bank that is complicit in this drama. And for that bank, there was 9,000 million euros, but to solve the drama, Junta, during the time of Mr Feijóo, only cut 700 million euros. In order to ensure decent housing, this LNP requires retroactive payment, affordable rental guarantee, stop actual evictions, promote public housing park and guarantee basic supplies to families at risk of exclusion, but right, not alms! I regret the attitude of the People's Party, and the BNG, of course, will continue to fight against inequality – because it is the priority at the moment – for the right to a decent housing and sufficient economic resources. They don't matter if there's no money. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u68	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the presentation by the Government of Greece of a comprehensive programme of actions covering the set of recommendations prepared by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u69	No amendments were tabled. Mrs Solla has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u70	Thank you, President. Mary Isabel was 65 years old, Concepción 38, Divine 46, Beatriz 30, Mary Joseph was 71, Mary 41, Silvia 33, Amya was 4 and Candela was 9 years old. I'm not going to talk about numbers, numbers. They're people, they're women and they were murdered in 2015. And with these data, and with the data that Machism will increase in society, which denounce all the actors working on this issue, that feminization of poverty is increasing and increasing since the beginning of this stafa crisis, it should be mandatory for governments to assume that policies that are being practised are not only satisfactory, but are increasing precisely inequality. Yesterday we lived here a sterile, cold debate, it seemed to see who did it more or less, if the laws had achieved them a party and not women, or if the People's Party had done so many things in this legislation. But look where those things are not doing right, or they're not doing directly, because we have on the table the data and the reality that we live women every day. Today we bring here the truth of who can't climb this rostrum, which is half the population of this country. Because this inequality is suffering all women, and that inequality – which is enhanced precisely by all the policies being taken since the beginning of this crisis, but also from before – is the breeding ground for gender-based violence. It denounces the Shadow Report, the CEDAW Report, of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, of the United Nations. Spain does not comply, suspends the State on equal terms and suspends autonomous communities. On the general context, CEDAW tells us: "The Committee notes with concern that the financial and economic crisis and state austerity measures have had a negative impact on all areas of women's lives... No studies or evaluations have been conducted to monitor the effects of the crisis on the basis of gender." Even in times of economic crisis and tax restrictions, special efforts must be made to respect women's rights, maintain and expand social investment and social protection and use an approach that incorporates gender issues. We have a salary gap of 19.3%, there's no plan to address it, we all know that we women charge less, there's no intention of the Administration to address absolutely any of this. The unemployment among women, both in the state and in Galicia, is greater, it has been prescribed, but, above all, it is postcrisal. The wage difference that I was referring to causes a difference in the purchasing capacity of some 4,500 euros a year and therefore also causes a difference, a basis of contribution less than 320 euros a month, which is a barbarity and redundancies, of course, in pensions that have a posteriori women, and that we will have women. And therefore it is to prolong the model of female poverty. All of this also denounces you, specifically, the report on page ten, concerning the economic situation. The Committee says: "The Committee is concerned that austerity measures taken in response to the economic and financial crisis have a serious and disproportionate impact on women, and in particular on women with disabilities, older women and domestic workers. The persistent gender inequality, higher than the European Union average, by vertical and horizontal segregation in the labour market and by the concentration of women in part-time work, which negatively affects their professional development and retirement benefits, the low representation of women in managerial positions and that the State party did not ratify the agreement on workers and domestic workers." Women also devote themselves more to part-time work, not because we want it, but because there is nothing else; the proportion in the state, in which 1,983,000 women devote themselves to part-time work, compared to 767,000 men, is practically the same in Galicia, and not only because there is nothing else, but because women continue to devote themselves to the care tasks of older, smaller and dependent. And because of that pay gap if there is to be no wages in a home or in a family where there is a man-woman couple, it's usually from the lower wage, which is typically the woman's wage. And so it's the fish that catches the tail. The United Nations therefore puts emphasis on labour reform and cuts in rights that are driving women out of the labour market and making their wages increasingly precarious and thus lower prices. We women are recognized as caregivers in general by society and, however, not by the Government. We must remember all the cuts that suffered the Dependency Act, that autonomy law, the elimination of recognition as usual caregivers by the Administration, that cut in the benefits of caregivers. And we must also remember that female poverty, which implies that in Galicia 60% of the people who are now at risk are either, or in that case, women. The report also denounces the situation of women in more disadvantaged conditions, and tells us that they are particularly concerned about the situation of migrant women, Roma women, older women and women with disabilities. And it also speaks of the inequality women have in rural areas in access to their rights. And obviously we'll also suspend the concept of women's health. The report again punishes the right to access to abortion as well as access to the health of migrant women. The Committee says that it is concerned by the legislative amendment of the Royal Legislative Decree 16/2012, which excluded migrants in irregular health coverage situations, which represents a missed opportunity to identify victims of gender-based violence and trafficking and to assist victims of sexual violence. That the bill that contemplates the possibility that abortion in children aged 16 to 18 depends on the consent of parents, caregivers or guardians, of being approved – if it had not yet been, now yes – because it would present a problem too, and that the budget for women living with HIV has been reduced, and that also concerns the United Nations itself. Add it up and go on. And we also suspended in violence against the woman, which is probably already the drop that blows up the glass. The Committee says that if it is well observed the existence of a specific law, it is alarmed by the prevalence in the State party of violence against women, including sexual violence, and by the high percentage of women who died as a result of gender-based violence in couples. Especially concerned about these issues. That organic law does not cover the full range of gender-based violence outside of partner violence, that the number of children murdered by parents in the exercise of their visiting rights has increased, and it speaks of the deterioration of the protection services of women who are victims of domestic violence in different autonomous communities, in particular the limited availability of foster homes for women and children. And this is practically just a summary. That is to say, for the United Nations organization, the Spanish State and the various autonomous communities have suspended in gender violence, equality, health, employment, sexual and reproductive rights, the repair of women victims of franchise, ICES, domestic employees, women's representation in decision-making, austerity policies, social policies, labour relations, migration, disability, education, stereotypes, media and justice. And so this is a whole amendment to the policies of the People's Party over the last eight years. This summary is part of the summary CEDAW itself on the last two reports. But in detail, we are asked to take a series of measures by recovering the Women's Institute, the levels of dependence attention, ratifying the agreement on domestic workers, which diminishes the impact of austerity measures on human rights, protecting migrant women, returning this right to universal health and abortion, revising textbooks, re-enacting education for citizenship, etc., etc., etc. The United Nations organization – already mentioned – makes an amendment to the whole of this Government. I wonder if they're going to listen to international bodies or if they're going to continue to turn their backs on the most obvious, that equality doesn't exist and that with austerity we women are increasingly unprotected. Nothing else, for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u72	Thank you, President. First of all, I regret the death of the last victim of male terrorism: a 17-month-old girl, a 17-month-old baby, a victim of abuse and murder by her mother's partner. His death took place this morning in Victoria. With regard to the GNP presented by the AGE Parliamentary Group, which is based on the report that the Spanish Shadow Platform, consisting of 50 feminist NGOs – certainly none of them is Welsh – of human rights and development cooperation, which since 2013 have been working on the elaboration, dissemination and presentation to the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women of the United Nations, denouncing the setbacks and cuts of the Spanish State in the last five years within the framework of the human rights of these women, will count on my support. I think it is necessary to remember that the Committee dates from 1989, and that at the convention adopted by 187 states, including the Spanish State, literally condemn discrimination against women in all its forms and also undertake to follow and create, by all possible means and without delay, policies aimed at eliminating any form of discrimination against women. On 8 July 2015, this United Nations Committee examines Spain, and then publishes in Spanish a document entitled Final observations and recommendations to the Spanish State on gender equality. The conclusions reached in that report, with regard to the backlog on equality which has been taking place in Spain for the past five years, are in a powerful way consistent with the report of the Spanish Shadow Platform, which is only those of the working group on the issue of discrimination against women in law and practice, which, in a demolition report on the situation of women in Spain, urges the Spanish State to fulfil its international commitments on gender equality. The recommendations of this working group to the State are numerous, and I am glad to hear from the honourable Member who spoke earlier. But let me list some of the ones I consider most outstanding, as being the result of the policies of the People's Party and recoverable for a future government, and these are the following. The recovery of the Women's Institute as a specialized agency dedicated to women's rights. Replanting the minimum levels of protection for all types of dependency attention. The assessment of the impact of human rights, including the impact of gender, as to the consequences of fiscal austerity measures. The revision and total modification of textbooks and study plans for the elimination of gender stereotypes. The replantation of education for citizenship and human rights throughout the State as a compulsory subject. Seven recommendations about gender-based violence that doesn't give me time to enumerate. Of the four that refer to health and safety, I don't want to mention the second: the drafting of an adequate regulation on public custody for children under 16 who want to have an abortion without the consent of their parents. All these and many more of these proposals have already come to this Parliament in the form of initiatives, and all, absolutely, have been rejected by the absolute majority of the People's Party. I support this LNP and look forward to political change so that other equality and rights policies for women are already a reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u73	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u74	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, today the Gaga de Left Alternative Group brings the debate to a report which should be read by all Members of this House, as I see it. It clearly shows the erratic situation in which they continued to call the People's Party a political party of equality. In recent years, we have repeatedly warned that women were in fact increasingly unequal in inequality; that austerity policies, the so-called austerity policies, which are the policies of the cut, which led to women increasing their wage divide, having Galicia the highest wage gap in the whole state and across Europe; that women who have to stay at home to look after their children, the dependents... then we will talk about the area of dependency and how the area of care is still mainly in the area of home. It was women who really became the most vulnerable of this economic crisis situation. The report shows this reality of the difficulties of participating in equal employment, in education, in health, in all areas of life, and therefore also, as a result, that women are currently being murdered by violence against men. In view of this situation, the truth was, when I read the report, that the Government of Greece has real possibilities through all its gender impact reports, through its own body, the Secretariat of Equality, to modify the policies of the Government in the field of equality. And it would even be interesting to debate this report, if we continue to think that specific organisms are the ones that can modify the conditions of 52% of the population, in the case of Galicia, which are women, because all government, in solidarity and in each of the actions it actually performs, must try to change the living conditions of women. That is what was called, at least at the Beijing Conference, and so must be reflected in all international conventions, and even in this study, the principle of transversality, the principle of gender transversality. And I'm going to set an example of what's going on every day when a law is being processed, when a grant order is being processed, when any of the applications that the Government does. Yes, indeed, they do carry a gender impact report, but it shows that it is absolutely erratic and that it is not an indicator of women's living conditions. In the last report we discussed yesterday, with regard to energy poverty, the only thing the Government of Greece has to say about the poverty situation – and it has already been exposed, as shown in the report itself, that women are the poorest, single-parent families, 60% of the Risga – is that it is understood that the legislative measures taken in relation to poverty, without evaluation of other aspects such as their origin or possible results that do not correspond to this report, have a greater impact on the female population and can therefore contribute indirectly to the reduction of inequalities. With a paragraph, a single paragraph, something as important as it can be like a law that seeks to eliminate gender poverty directly affects women's lives, for that is a procedure. What's going on? That for the governments of the People's Party, with all due respect, equality policies are a process. A process in papers, uniquely and exclusively, in all aspects: in gender impact reports, in reports on women's health... and if not, it is legislate against women. For example, in the case of voluntary termination of pregnancy, which is also collected in this report, the case of girls between 16 and 18 years of age. The report shows that in equality, or if you're going to push slowly so that, in fact, if you're going to correct these historically inherited differences and also often blessed by your own regulations or programs that make different governments, or if you're going to push them every day, or if you stop, what you see are steps backwards, because the inertia of a society itself machist what makes us is going back. We are seeing it, and in this respect the report also talks about education and girls. The report takes exactly one point. We still follow that in the Spanish state there are only 26% of women engineers, but this government, the Government of the Galician People's Party, which has an explicit mandate from a law to develop a program for the incorporation of women and girls...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u75	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u76	...the studies in which they are underrepresented, which is the Women's and Science Program, has been exactly five years behind schedule. This report has been approved three times in this Parliament, and the People's Party has voted in favour of it. Five years' delay. When you don't believe in equality policies, of course, reports are demolition. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs Acuña do Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u78	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. As we said yesterday, in July last year, the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women of the United Nations, composed of more than 20 experts from around the world, prepared a report on the situation of women in the Spanish State. That report was drawn up on the basis of information passed to you by the Government of the State, the Spanish Government itself, of course, coupled with that provided by NGOs and other social associations in the country, known as Shadow reports. Furthermore, this committee is not limited to marking the problems, but it incorporates the report a number of recommendations so that the Government studied can remedy the problems detected. We discussed yesterday precisely an initiative by my group, the Socialist Group, in which we gathered the recommendations made to combat gender-based violence, which, by the way, the People's Parliamentary Group assured us that it would vote in favour, I suppose because they are convinced that they have no possibility of ruling in the state, and then they say, we will approve it, and those who have just done so will already be in charge. I am truly sorry that what you have said to the honourable Member who is presenting this initiative, that it would seem to you a cold and supportive debate, because of course it was not the intention. From my party and from the feminist associations, we are making a great effort to work together, to work together, and to end up with a problem that has the Greek feminism, which is very atomized, because together we only have some possibility in that struggle. But the committee, in addition to the recommendation regarding violence, also talked about other things, such as the need in our country to increase women's participation, not only in political and public life, but also in other levels, and through quotas, lordship, something that still questions the People's Party today. He was talking about the elimination of the pay gap and, of course, about the change in access to the succession of the Spanish crown, something embarrassing, but there it is. It was criticized for the backwardness that equality between men and women experienced with the crisis, or rather with the management of the crisis that the People's Party made upon reaching the Government of the State. Equality, for the People's Party, of course, is a luxury, and therefore indispensable. The serious problem that Spain has caused to women with the approval of Royal Decree Law 16/2012, which makes it difficult to access health care for migrant women in an irregular situation, including, ladies and gentlemen, women and children who are victims of trafficking, has lost the universal nature of health care that we have so far had in Spain. It also criticizes – or recommends, better said – that report, that committee, that we re-implement education in human rights as a subject, as I did, ladies and gentlemen, and I will not tire of repeating it, the suppressed education for citizenship. Special chapter deserves the report on trafficking in women and girls, where the UN, ladies and gentlemen, and this seems very serious to me, reproaches us for the lack of protection of the minor victims. And it also criticizes, as it could not be otherwise, the reform applied by the People's Party to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy, which leaves absolutely destitute the younger and more vulnerable women. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2014, only 12% of women between the ages of 16 and 18 were aborted without being accompanied by their country, and the circumstances resulting from this situation are dramatic, because they are destructed families, because they have their parents in jail, because they are at risk of ill-treatment, etc. I wonder what's going to happen now, with the reform of the law, with that 12%? What's going to happen to those women? Well, one of two, or they have the child, or they're going to look for a clandestine abortion. Well, I'll say from here, live France! Long live France, ladies and gentlemen. That said, now that we've identified the deficiencies...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u79	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u80	...nothing more logical – finished – than to pose solutions. And that is precisely what this initiative is asking for, which is to be presented with a comprehensive programme to take up the recommendations of that committee. He asked that, of course, the Socialists and the Socialists should support us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Oubiña Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u82	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Madam President. Today, the Gaga de Left Alternative brings to debate a non-law proposal to the content of a report which periodically prepares the United Nations Committee with regard to Spain – and I stress again that with regard to Spain – which was presented last July. But once again – I repeat again – we attend the use of demagogy as an instrument of the political ambition of each of the groups. I don't think everything's worth it. It's all good is negative in this sort of thing. As far as this report is concerned, this report collects what you have also managed to say here: all those progress made since the last evaluation, which was in 2009, in relation to the legislative reforms undertaken by the Government; and it makes a series of recommendations and a series of efforts, which will be evaluated on the next committee, which will be in 2019. As for the positive aspects, this report highlights the adoption of various instruments, such as the Law on the Legal Status of Victims of Gender Violence, the Organic Law amending the Criminal Code with regard to violence against women. It also recognizes the efforts of the State to improve the institutional and regulatory framework, to establish the elimination of discrimination against women and to promote gender equality, such as the National Strategy for the Eradication of Gender Violence 2013-2016; as is the Strategic Plan for Equal Opportunities 2014-2016; as is the Strategic Plan for the Equality of Women and Men of the Information Society 2014-2017. And so, since the last evaluation, it also recognizes and values positively that it is adhered to various institutional bodies, such as the Council of Europe Convention for the Prevention of the Fight against Women's Violence, as well as the fight against trafficking, as well as the juvenile law protocol, etc. All this at the national level. This report does not collect or evaluate the various measures, and also the various plans, which have been put in place more recently, which already include, Madam, these recommendations, as can be the National Plan for the Promotion of Rural Women – which you have not appointed – 2015-2018, or as can be the Plan for the Awareness and Prevention of Gender Violence, which sets targets, priorities for action, intervention axes and also better I understand that they will be evaluated in the future report to be issued – as I said before – in 2019. With regard to Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, this report refers to two questions, and positively. First, the incorporation of the gender impact report into the legislative process, and in relation to the adoption of a law to improve the working situation of women. Therefore, this report does not collect or suspend or assess the measures put in place and which are being carried out in the various autonomous communities within their own competences. Besides, they haven't been consulted, I don't know, and I'd like to set an example in this regard. For example, when it recommends encouraging women to report in cases of violence, or seeking assistance and protection at reception centres, which have been said here, this is a priority in Galicia, when the reception centres have been questioned, and even if they have said they have to close. As for another example, you could say – because you have also just questioned – the health care of irregular immigrants, being Galicia's first autonomous community – and you know it – to pass the decree that guarantees the assistance of irregular immigrants, and at the moment more than 2,000 people are welcomed. Therefore, the measures proposed in your initiative, I believe, are already collected in the various strategic plans for equality and the eradication of gender-based violence, of which Galicia is also a part. And we could say that here we have a much broader plan than what you think you're asking for, which is the 6th German Plan for Equality of Women and Men...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u83	Finish it, Mr. Oubina, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u84	...–Filled, Madam President–, which collects the commitments made by the Galician Union, which are 320 actions in a cross-cutting, comprehensive and cooperative manner with all of the Galician administration, with an estimated assessment of €220,000. Therefore, as I have no more time, we will not support this initiative. I believe that yesterday's is looking at everything that is being asked to do on this issue, so we, in this sense, are not going to support it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Oubina. Parliamentary group which is the author of the non-legislation proposal. Mrs. Solla, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u86	Thank you, President. This is absolutely incredible. And that you accuse us of demagogy is no more. Obviously, there are some aspects in the report that are not negative; it's not going to be all negative, as is normal. But here you are to work, and the Government to implement measures to correct all the negative aspects. We are suspended at all, at all! And this is the first time, I just learned that the People's Party is independent and does not consider Galicia to be inside the Spanish state. Perhaps within a few years it is not, but right now the recommendations of the United Nations for the Spanish State, I think they are also looking at Galicia. Or does the labour reform not apply to Galicia? Or does Royal Decree 16/2012 not apply to Galicia? Or don't abortion restrictions apply to Galicia? Please, a little serious! If you're going to decide to challenge women's rights, tell them, but don't come here with demagogy, and insult demagogy precisely those that we simply bring the recommendations of an organism that I understand is not controlled by Alternative Left Gaga, on the world left, not even those women's organizations that make, in addition, that parallel report that complements. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I find it absolutely incredible that you speak here as if you've already been practically solved, when I told you in my intervention that the cases of gender-based violence are increasing, that we have more gender-based violence in adolescence, that more women have been killed last year, and that the situation, far from solved, as international agencies report, is increasing by the inequality caused by the measures taken since the beginning of the economic crisis. That's right, it's not opinable, it's a fact, something else you want to take action or not. And it's not surely the responsibility of a single person, of two or three, but when the situation is not being corrected, but it's getting worse, you can't come here saying you're already doing enough. We'll have to have some plan on these measures and put it into action. Now, what just happened here, seems to me to overlook the most elementary care about women's rights, and you make it clear that they are absolutely interested in zero inequality, zero that is increasing violence, zero, absolutely nothing! Because you, despite what the international bodies say, don't think they're going to correct their policies at all. It is clear, and let me take note of citizenship when I have to support a government. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and seven other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in order to improve research and innovation in the shipbuilding sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u88	This motion for a non-law was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u89	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Tellado Filgueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Today we are taking an initiative to address again the situation of the shipbuilding sector, particularly the shipbuilding sector in the Ferrol River. The situation of the shipyards in the Ferrol River today is obviously better than in December 2011, when the People's Party arrived at the Government of Spain. As you know, between 2008 and 2011 the Socialist Government did not achieve a single contract for shipyards in the Ferrol River, and as you know, the former Astano suffered the consequences of a productive veto imposed by that Government in 2005, agreed with Europe and agreed with the unions Workers' and UGT Commissions; a ten-year veto with which Socialists tried to impoverish one of the best shipyards in all of Europe. They didn't make it. Today, fortunately, the situation is quite different. If it is true that the status of the ship in the Ferrrol River is not solved, of course not! the burden of work is still insufficient, but what is undeniable is that today there are requests that have not existed two years ago, and that these requests allow us to glimpse a very different panorama. Today the work load of the shipyards in the Ferrol River is perfectly defined. We're talking about Pemex's fleet, that fleet that was a lie: 175 million euros of billing, 1,150,000 hours of workload. We're talking about the engineering contract and equipment of an LHD for the Turkish Navy. We're talking about the ship of maritime action, the first contract that the Spanish Navy has placed on the railway yards since the year 2008, with an investment of 167 million euros and more than 1 million hours of workload. We're talking about the contract – now running already – of the construction of the 29 jackets for Iberdrola, the Wikinger project, with an invoice of 90 million euros, 650,000 hours of workload, and which allowed the railway yards to enter the marine wind farm. We're talking about the contract for the construction of five macrostructures for the stateil branch in the Ferrol River, five floating macrostructures for the marine wind, 400,000 hours of workload, and we're also talking about the four heads and blocks of oil tankers that Navantia is going to build for the Ondimar ship. These six contracts must also be added to the charge and development of the R & D+i programme for the already underway F110 frigate series, with budgetary allocation by the Council of Ministers of 135 million euros, approved in 2015 and which is allowing the development of the combat, armament, telecommunications and electronic warfare systems of this ship. To these contracts already approved, and to the development of the R & D+i of the F110 frigates, we also have to add other possible contracts that are on the table, about to materialize, such as the contract with Saudi Arabia to build 5 corvettes on Navantia shipyards. I deal with Saudi Arabia, by the way, questioned so I think you're wrong about the mayor of Ferrol, and the contract you're about to see that, if there's a change in government in this country, you can lose. In short, he worked hard these years, and what we can say is that we put a load of work where others left grades empty. Today Ferrol's river has a load of work and activity on the three fundamental issues: in the construction of civil naval, in the construction of military naval and also in repairs; full occupation in the department of careers. We must also say that we are moving forward in industrial diversification, with the opening of the sea wind market in the hand of these two contracts I have just mentioned. We are going to defend, from the People's Party, that Navantia has a future in these three fields of action: in civil construction, in military construction and diversification. As far as the private ship is concerned, the shipyards in the Vigo River are essentially obvious, and for all known, it is the smallpox that suffered by the German shipyards with the decision of the European Competition Commissioner, the socialist Joaquín Almunia, to cancel the Spanish tax read, a decision that has just been annulled by the European court. The unfair decision, which led to the loss of EUR 2 billion in contracts for private shipyards in Galicia and the destruction of 8,000 jobs only in the Vigo River. Today, the German naval, fortunately, is in a different situation because today there is a burden of work in the public – not enough, indeed – and there are instruments for financing private naval construction; so today we can say that the Greek naval has orders worth 1,9 billion euros. Understanding that, in order to speak of the German naval sector, both public and private, we need to speak in terms of competitiveness and productivity – something that we certainly do not often listen to opposition groups – which is clear that contracts do not claim, contracts succeed in making competitive offers in quality, in product, in price and also in terms of time. That is what we have to do with the German naval sector, speaking in terms of competitiveness and productivity. Competitiveness and increased productivity are, therefore, the keys to obtaining new demands for our shipyards, which has been dedicated to the Galician Union through the Galician Innovation Agency. It works on that base from the strategy of intelligent specialization launched by the Government of Galicia, and it is also supported by joint research units developed in the field of naval research. Last November 16th, the Economics Adviser visited Ferrol to evaluate the progress of the Joint Research Unit that is developing Navantia in collaboration with the University of Coruña and promoted by the Galician Innovation Agency; an initiative that aims to boost research and innovation in the design of the future yard, with the aim of increasing productivity and competitiveness in our sector and reducing the time and cost of manufacturing. The naval is precisely the sector with more joint research units funded by the Galician Union, only surpassed by the automotive sector. In Galicia today there are three joint innovation units for the naval sector, which involve a total investment of 9 million euros – 2.4 contributed by the Galician Innovation Agency – and which are already generating 48 jobs directly. We're talking about the combined unit of Navantia and the University of Coruña, 3.5 million euros; we're talking about the mixed unit of Aimen-Wärtsilä Iberian, 2.3 million euros; we're talking about the mixed unit of Aimen-Factorías Vulcano, 3.5 million euros of budget. In particular, the combined unit of Navantia and the University of Coruña is designed to develop the yard of the future in the installations of Navantia Ferrol. It is a project based on three main lines of research. The first, the optimization of the design and construction processes; the second, the increase in the degree of automation and robotization of the galley naval sector, a large pending subject; the third, the improvement of the coordination of the shipyards with the auxiliary naval industry. This initiative, therefore, implies the design of a new concept of yard thinking in the 21st century, with the aim of reconverting a yard, that of Ferrol, which was built in the 18th century. So it's about working on the path of optimization of productive processes by developing a digital yard that looks towards the future, based on the experience, in the case of Ferrol, of 200 years of life. The works carried out seek to provide the Greek naval with essential benefits to make a qualitative leap in its competitiveness. In this context, the People's Group considers it essential to continue to cooperate within the framework of the 4.0 concept of industry in the shipbuilding sector. In this same line, we need to remember the project that is being carried out at the CIS of Ferrol, the Innovation and Services Centre, where the sector is taking the first steps in the deployment of Naval 4.0, a project in which Navantia, Aclunaga, Aimen – Metallurgical Research Association –, the Galician Institute of Technology, Soermar Foundation or the Naval Engineering College, and which seeks – as I said – to achieve vanguard technologies, optimize existing ones and reach new niches of the market and capture more European funds. The aim of this initiative is to shape the commitment of the Galician Parliament to work firmly on promoting innovation and research in the development of the shipbuilding sector with the aim of increasing productivity and increasing the competitiveness of our shipyards. We believe that the naval sector has a future. Of course, today in Ferrol's creek, there's a workload that hasn't existed three or four years ago. Of course, not enough, but we have to keep working in that direction. Everything goes through the burden of work, innovation, competitiveness and increased productivity. That is the objective of this initiative that we have submitted to the debate with the rest of the groups. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u91	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u92	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of us and to all of us at this moment in the Chamber. It is seen that this great concern of the People's Party for the Navy has to do with Mr. Tellado, and little more of the People's Party, is not an important debate; therefore there is no reason to be in this Chamber at this moment. And they're right, because they actually present an empty content initiative, totally empty content, which only serves to bless the lack of action in the naval sector by the People's Party over these years. The German Government must adopt a specific plan of action to promote the shipbuilding sector, in which it envisages the construction of the floating dam on the public shipyards of the Ferrol River following the lifting of the veto of the European Union to the civil construction in Navantia, which allows the market to be opened for the repair of large ships in Galicia. Galicia can no longer wait, only the determined wager of the Government of Greece can save a sector that has put Galicia in the head of shipbuilding and naval repair for its quality and qualification of its staff paintings. Together you must defend Ferrol's floating dike as a strategic project for the country, a high value added, high investment in R & D and dynamizer not only of the local economy, but also of the national economy. The market of wharves for large ships that do not catch the Bazán dam – mainly mega-gaggers – is currently being lost because of the People's Party. The Vigo River naval sector has also destroyed 10,800 jobs in this crisis, which rise to 27,000 jobs if indirect jobs are taken into account. Moreover, I would like to know, because I asked him several times already – and I would like to urge Mr. Tellado to see if in his next intervention he answered – that he did the Board of Galicia in relation to the judgment of the tax read, whether he has moved his token or not, because he seems to be unconcerned, that he will allow things to remain like this, and in any case, the yards themselves to move. The Ferrol naval sector has destroyed 1,815 direct jobs since September 2011, which, given the destruction of indirect jobs, has reached 4,500. In total, 31,500 people unemployed in the naval sector is the great balance of the People's Party during its government these years, since 2011. Besides, I find it incredible to me that Mr. Tellado talks about the dismissals and the loss of jobs in the naval sector, when he suffered a dismissal and resorted to that demon union called the IGC. After all, Mr. Tellado, you had to pay the quotas for counseling at least afterwards, right? But well, these are things that happen in life and here we meet later with everything that happened. By periodically bordering the economic crack, with aging staff and leaving markets where they became world-wide punters, without charge guaranteeing the occupation of the 2,200 own workers and 4,000 of the assistants, the Navantia staff and the assistants continue to demand the Union to act in defence of the Greek public naval sector. In fact, the People's Party has never had any interest in Navantia Ferrol nor has it had any interest in securing its future with the construction of the floating dam. Ferrolterra needs the recovery of economic activity in the yard installations, which return to shipbuilding and which can be used, remaining of public ownership, for industrial diversification around pushing sectors such as wind, offshore industry or specialized machinery. This acute crisis that the shipyards of Navantia Fene and Ferrol are experiencing needs new contracts that increase the virtually non-existent workload and its consequences in the form of destruction of businesses and jobs in the auxiliary industry. There is a pressing need for a decisive action by the Government of Greece to enable the Italian public naval sector to take advantage of the opportunities offered by a complex such as the shipyards in the Ferrol River and the proven capacity of those shipyards. I was saying Mr. Tellado is very concerned that we're going to change from government and they're going to lose their contracts. Mr. Tellado, calm down, there's no problem with changing government! The coalitions are no problem, and it is shown when Mr Rajoy now offers the Socialist Party an agreement that goes beyond the Government of the State, in communities, municipalities, whatever, so that he can continue to govern and keep stealing his hands full of this country. That's what it's all about. Yeah, we can't deny the corruption that's in the People's Party itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u93	Go finish, please, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u94	...in the entire territory of the State. That's why I am proposing an amendment so that, if the People's Party really bets on the Welsh naval sector, it will pass this amendment and withdraw that resolutive part...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u96	...of propaganda, which has nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr. Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that the advertising and advertising department continues to operate with high performance, especially for the 6th members of the Commission who were last Friday and who discussed an initiative on an employment and training programme which was not only rejected by the People's Group legitimately, but even almost ridiculously. So I recognize my perplexity, but I can also understand that it actually responds to those advertising sequences that go beyond what the real needs of the economy are and that they have to do with local needs in this case of the People's Party. Mr Tellado, indeed, the situation is better today than in 2008 in the shipbuilding sector. By the way, in the shipbuilding sector in terms of recruitment and in all sectors. We could also talk about working conditions, but we're going to talk quantitatively about the shipbuilding sector. Still, there's a lot to be done, and I know it's basically the Socialists' fault, Almunia's and Zapatero's. But look, in 2015 –PIMAR– Galicia’s official data, with 50% of Spain’s shipbuilding capacity, has reached 17% of the contracts. And since Zapatero and Almunia were common to all autonomous communities, I would like to know what is the differential fact we have with Asturias and Euskadi, who are taking a proportionally majority part of that shipbuilding contract. That's what you should talk about and try to correct, rather than blame Mr Almunia, who is part of the argumentary and, finally, each one approaches methodologically the issues as he considers. Of course, training, innovation and research in the shipbuilding sector are very important. It is enough to see the statements of the president of Sepi, who asked Navantia to compete in price with China; it is also clear that it is via innovation and research. It's obvious. Yes, yes, it is clear that we will compete with China through innovation. No, no, what you're talking about, if you read the statements – I can pass the paper to you – is to compete via wages and is to compete in an ever-increasing process of subcontracting and downgrading working conditions that basically harm the labor factor of the production process, as you're sure you know well and well. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] He's also speaking at CIS Ferrol's initiative. I'd really recommend – in case I didn't see it, because maybe you saw it – that you enter the CIS Ferrol website. Given that it's a center of innovation and research, man!, the last update, two months ago... Check the events and projects you're talking about here, of course it's probably reserved material because it's likely to use strategic technology in military terms. But of course, they don't even show up, and the last ones that appear are from 2013. It would be very nice that, really, that vocation irrefrendable by industry 4.0, which now passes to naval 4.0, and I'm sure they'll soon talk here about the circular naval because it's part of the official discourse... Home! It would be nice if they didn't call us. Finally, a minimum of what is a minimal job I do not say to prepare your initiative, which I will not value at all, but I repeat again, I believe that the CIS Ferrol website as an element of economic dynamisation, innovation and research is paradigmatic of the importance that Mr. Feijóo's government places on these issues. I think it's paradigmatic. Look, you're still talking about 1,900 million euros in contracts. Please, in writing. We ask for it by Article 9, a written question, by all possible parliamentary methods. It's very good that the council will pass to you, but we'd like to have it, because all we have in the naval sector in the two periods of Mr. Feijóo's government, at least in the Socialist Group, are these two sheets, Mr. Tellado, these two sheets. By the way, one of them says specifically: we will support the construction of the new floating dam. I'm not making it up. If you want, then I can pass them on and pass them on to the president, but I'm sure you have this information. So enough advertising and propaganda. And the proof that it's enough, and the proof that this voicer is, in economic terms, very humble, the only thing he does is to put his amount...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u99	Go finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u100	...on your proposal, 10 million euros. And if we add up everything you told us here, but it doesn't put on the resolution, it's less, and I'm sure it will support it, therefore. I insist, it's about supporting the public and private naval sector, the Igape and Gain, which I think they have to go hand in hand with the marine cluster, Aimen, the Galician Institute of Technology and universities, 10 million euros. I'm sure they will support this initiative because if we add up to what you told us here, it exceeds 10 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u101	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u102	That, yes, does not put it – finished, Madam President – in the resolution. Then just one question about the private naval sector, Mr. Tellado. Look, on the Vigo shipyards, beyond the Barreras and Pemex case, the Galician Union didn't do anything. And the governments of the People's Party are so incompetent that there is a ferry in Vulcan – finished if I am left, Madam President – pending funding, and the president of the ICO – who was a Member for Pontevedra by the People's Party – was unable to seek funding for the sale of that ferry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u103	Thank you. Mr Vázquez Díaz has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u104	Good morning to all and to all. Undoubtedly, the language of survival is a very basic, very elementary language. It's about life or death, about work or unemployment, about wages or poverty, about workload or closure. These are the terms that this limit situation under which the galley ship can be found. That is why the parliamentary debate, often, on this issue takes place in the dialectics of survival, which is – as I said – simplistic and, in many cases, very basic. This happens not only with the naval in this Parliament, but also with many other issues. His intervention was, of course, simplistic and pamphletary, Mr. Tellado, because we know that reality is much more complex and existence is much more than mere survival. The ship needs a load of work, yes, that's obvious. But it also needs a lot more, a lot more, if we really want to guarantee its future viability and not its timely survival. It focused on the drafting of this initiative in the Councillor's participation in a series of days organized by the University of Coruña and Navantia and his bet – from the Counsellor – by the yard 4.0. We imagine within his famous industry 4.0 bet and through the promotion of employment 4.0, which is nothing but an exercise of political filibusterism to counter the inaction of this government, which is absolutely smiling, I would say. Inconcretion is what this initiative has, that is obvious, because, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, what really needs the naval, what really needs the district of Ferrolterra, what really needs the Greek shipyards, is a rigorous and truly guaranteed industrial plan of the future. A plan shared and agreed by all the agents involved. An industrial plan that responds to the real problems, of what you haven't talked about here, of the ship and of the galley shipyards; that it faces its main challenges, so we should have talked about which are the challenges of the galley ship, and you didn't. The challenges are to solve the financial situation of the Greek shipyards; extremely serious in the case of Navantia, in technical breakdown. Second, to address the organizational disaster caused by the mismanagement of Navantia's leadership. How can you name a presidency like the one you have today in Navantia, absolutely ineffective? A person who has just been in front of him, before taking over his position, of a communication company, had accredited solvent experience in the yard field. The People's Party has turned Navantia into a chiringuit of friends of the People's Party, and the result is the organisational disaster of the shipyards, that's the reality. We have to deal with the renewal of the templates, which in the case of Navantia, for example, Navantia Fene, is an average age of 58 years. What's the future of a company whose workers are about 58 years old, Mr. Tellado? What future can he have? Is that the innovation you're defending? The training and professional qualifications of naval workers must be promoted. That's the future, the future for youth. In the few contracts to which the Galician naval is admitted, there is a lack of qualified professionals, because the naval is not only engineers – I have said recently – they are soldiers, they are redeployers, they are assemblers, they are entitled means, they lack. The yards need a serious and courageous political will to support the marketing of products manufactured in our country. The collaboration of the Ministry of Defence, of Economics, of Foreign Affairs, of course yes!, and not absurd polemics with governments of Venezuela or Saudi Arabia, like what you did here. Yes, yes, absurd. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And of course, you need a real R & D+i plan, but from the rigorous consideration of what the naval means. A yard is not a place where the sheet is cut, Mr. Tellado, it is much more than that. It's a place where you work with propulsion equipment, with loading and unloading equipment, with electrical and fluid installations. In short, a yard is truly technological when it is allowed to manufacture complete ships, not puzzles, or pieces. A yard is much more than a workshop, which is what you're reducing to Navantia. The 4.0 yard is actually an Ikea yard, Mr. Tellado. That's what you're turning into the Greek shipyards. I want to give you a very important consideration. In Galicia, we may not have had a lot of pointed sectors, but in the naval, yes. Of course, we have to work on innovation, but our shipyards, the Greek shipyards, were the first shipyards in the world...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u105	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u106	...where you could make the boot of a big tonnage ship in step. Yes, and all the countries of the world have come here to learn. Yes, sir. So you – also being a conservative government – the first thing you had to keep is the technology and innovation that we already have, and that you sold the balance price, as in the case of Barreras in Vigo. That's the first thing they have to do if they're really conservative and patriotic, as they often boast. They therefore do not assume that role of peripheral economy which they reserve for our country, which they reserve for Galicia, being absolutely puppets of the interests of the countries of central Europe, France, the Netherlands, and the shipyards of these countries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u108	They act this way and defend Galicia's interests.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u109	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u110	And really, don't demagogy on such an important topic for Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u111	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u112	Thank you, President. Indeed, we have repeated a debate that we saw on two occasions this Friday in Commission 6a. And you bring here again an initiative that says: To continue to promote cooperation between public and private administrations and shipyards that make up the Welsh naval sector, in order to improve research and innovation in the sector. Look, I'm going to choose to read you exactly a document dated in January 2016, from the workers and workers of Navantia themselves, from the CIG union headquarters, which after a meeting we were left on the table for transfer to the Government. That's exactly how it says: The serious situation that crosses the naval sector of the Ferrol River follows, after more than three decades, in a process of progressive dismantling. It is acute crisis that are living the shipyards of Navantia, Fene and Ferrol, without new contracts that increase to date the virtually non-existent workload. Its consequences in the form of business destruction and employment in the auxiliary industry are alarming to economic and social agents and to society in general, which you know perfectly well because we have repeatedly talked about the unemployment rate suffered by the district of Ferrolterra. The evolution of shipbuilding worldwide and the opportunities offered by a complex like the shipyards in our creek. The capacity historically demonstrated, of which, in fact, they have already spoken on repeated occasions the spokesmen who preceded me. No government claiming such can remain as a spectator in front of what is happening. We call on institutions to commit themselves immediately, which we, as a parliamentary group, collect. One. Maintenance of the public ownership of all Navantia work centres in the Ferrol River. Two. Impulse of the integral complex for rail yards of Ferrol that approaches all areas of shipbuilding. All fields of shipbuilding. Three. Defend those activities as a strategic sector for Galicia. Four. Compliance with the Law of the Galician Naval Sector, adopted by the Greek Parliament, with the participation of the Board of Directors of Navantia. I remind you that this particular aspect has also been adopted in a non-law motion tabled by this parliamentary group and that it has counted on the vote in favour of the People's Party. Today, as we know, it didn't materialize. Five. Demand for a non-discriminatory distribution of the Navantia Group's workload that takes into account the skills of the rail yards once the veto has been completed. Six. Immediately equip the shipyards of the river, Fene and Ferrol, ensuring the construction of two oil tankers. Seven. Equip Navantia Fene of sufficient management, technical and productive personnel, which can immediately return to civil construction. Eight. Urgent execution command of the floating dike. It has already been commented on by Mr Losada, that file X which will simply be left in Parliament's logbooks in the form of pledges by Mr Feijóo and also by the Members of the People's Party, from amendments to budget laws and, subsequently, in budgets. But just there, like ink on paper, the floating dam today is not a reality. Nine. A plan for the future that ensures the sustainability of the company and its long-term strengthening. That's what Mr. Tellado calls. A future plan for industrialization. Ten. Incorporation of youth that guarantees continuity of all workplaces. We have recently commented on the aging problem with the Navantia template. Just say that in the center of Ferrol 70% of its workers and workers are over 60 years old. Eleven. Push collaborations to promote youth, both at FP and at university. Remind him he's not in the university scholarship program. Sweet. Self-contracting, as the rest of the administrations do. Eliminate precariousness in labour and wage conditions. Pass. Auxiliary industry as a complement to Navantia, not as a mechanism to reduce costs through the loss, as we know, of wages. Fourteen. Commitment by Navantia to the monitoring of the socio-work conditions of the auxiliary industry. Fifteen. Training and launching an investment plan that modernises shipyards. Sixteen. A new organisational structure for decentralization of management in decision-making, especially in strategic engineering areas and in purchasing, supply and commercial departments. These are the demands of those who are working every day, and here you tell us exactly that cooperation continues to promote. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Losada, please see if this government defies the naval sector that today's president of the Union is on the shipyards of Freire in Vigo, in the act of placing the keel for a school ship for the Indonesian Navy. Look if we unguard the naval! Let's totally turn it off! [[Applause]] Look, I am today of what I am glad is that you recognized the role of Zapatero and Mr. Almunia as enemies number one in the German naval sector, the public and the private sector one to the other. Now I'm going to try to convince you to recognize that the whole source of the problem in the naval sector is in that government of Felipe González, who made the first conversion and closed Astano. [[Murmurs.]] I hope I get it. Mr. Losada, it doesn't seem serious that you're talking to me about ignorance, and that to talk about the CIS Ferrol you're telling me about the website. I told him about what they're doing in innovation technicians, and his intervention, in that sense, seems to me to be an absolute lack of respect. You talk about credibility and I have to admit it was true: the fleets were lies; because they were not 2, they're finally going to be 3, Mr. Losada. You denied the work of the Galician Union in favour of the naval sector and this government was what put in boat contracts where you left the unemployed and the poor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] About the Galego Nationalist Block, Mrs. Carmele Adam, look, you come here to put other people's duties and you've been a government. You led the Industry Council for four years, from 2005 to 2009. What did you do for the naval sector? Nothing. They tried to privatize Astano, it's true. That's what they did. That's why the Galician Nationalist Block is remembered in its passage through the Council of Economics and Industry in the Ferrol River. Mr. Vázquez, the galley ship always had an enemy, which was the Socialist Party. And there was always soon after a People's Party government getting contracts and workloads where others left their misery. Which side are you on? You are the necessary accomplices of the Socialist Party. They're called, like United Left, like Podemos or the Tides, they're the necessary accomplices of the Socialist Party, or puppets, if I'm allowed to express myself. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Martínez, from the Joint Group, would you like me to tell you? You, in relation to the naval sector, I have to tell you – that it doesn't sound bad – that you don't know what you're talking about. Read what they write to him. You write it wrong and you read it worse. That's the only explanation I can tell you. You talk about the floating dam, and look, to the floating dam who said it wasn't the Socialist Government; and who said it wasn't the European Commissioner for Competition. [[Murmurs.]] By clarifying the debate, we propose in our initiative that we continue to invest in innovation. Mr. Beers, welcome to this plenary. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In innovation, in the German naval sector, in the public and in the private sector, we call for investments for innovation. And you vote against it, but you vote against not only the Galician Union, you vote against the Galician Union, you vote against the Greek shipyards...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u116	...vote against universities, vote against the technological innovation centres that are participating in these programmes, vote against the College of Naval Engineers... ultimately, you vote against the naval sector. [[Murmurs.]] So what do you want me to tell them? Keep it that way. We, of course, are going to continue working to get a load of work and get our shipyards to move forward... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u117	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u118	...in innovation to improve competitiveness, a term that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u119	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u120	...they don't know how to use. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u121	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the termination by the Galician Board of the contract signed with the UTE concessionaire of the new hospital of Vigo and the recovery of its public management
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u122	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mrs Acuña do Campo, through its spokesperson and the aberration of the provisions of Article 161.2 of the Chamber's Rules of Procedure, presented to this Bureau the following amendment to the Non-Legal Proposal in plenary of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galician Left, on the termination by the Galician Council of the contract signed with the concessionary UTE of the new Vigo hospital and the recovery of its public management (09/PNP-003227, doc. # 44375).Additional amendment The following must be added in the second line of the non-law motion:After: "... non-compliances, to be terminated..." add: "without additional economic compensation"The following content must be added in the third line of the non-law proposal: After: "... Concrete Target for the people,..." add: "his character as a public hospital.")]] For the defence of the proposal is not law, Mrs. Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u123	Thank you, President. We have taken this proposal to committee and to the full, and we have brought it back on a new opportunity for the People's Party, which I think will be the last one to have in this legislation and the last one to be granted to it in a non-legislative proposal. We doubt that they are going to make use of this opportunity because all the problems we have discussed since 2012 correspond to the change of the health model, a management model that up to now was a mixed model and is becoming a linear model. This is basic in health management models, as the honourable ladies who work in health care will know. A model that had exactly its culmination in the government Feijóo with this failed new Vigo hospital, which was the jewel of the government crown Feijóo, of the Feijóo Nuñez itself, and which is a huge failure now investigated by the European Commission. A failure of what we already warned in 2012. A failure warned of those dangers with the PFI model itself. And we will warn you even before we enter Parliament, not just us, of course, but the organizations themselves in defence of public health. The 10,000 million debt board said I chose this PFI because it wasn't calculated as a public debt. Indeed, since Maastricht, and according to Eurostat's criteria, in this Europe of markets which obviously is not to defend people, it is considered that the IFPs do not count as public debt because the risks of construction and availability, as well as the financial ones, are passed on to the private sector. However, at Vigo's new hospital he failed. It failed to enter because the contract was qualified as a public works contract and not as public-private collaboration. And it has failed because, instead of taking the risk to the concessionaire, as you already know, and I am going to repeat now I do not know whether for the tenth or twelfth time, the risk has finally been taken by the Public Administration, because instead of 20% of the financing of the companies and 80% of the finance, we now have EUR 110 million granted to the Board through the European Investment Bank, and EUR 30 million granted through the ICO of its company AXIS, plus EUR 110 million who put financial institutions rescued from public money. That's saying that at last 56% of the funds are public, when 100 percent of the funds had to be private funds. The terms of the terms of the terms of the contract are therefore breached, and that's why the contract is terminated. But precisely that missing report from Pricewaterhouse, which now seems to be resurrected, emphasized on its 11 page that it was important to stress that public-private collaboration formulae, and in particular the public work concession figure, require that the risks inherent to the project are transferred in most of them to the private sector. I mean, the consultant himself told them from the beginning that these risks had to be transferred to the private sector. Therefore, the prayers are breached, the recommendations are breached, and therefore it is a more than clear reason to terminate that contract. But besides, the result of these failures has been – as you know – delays have occurred, because the concessionaire does not get funding. We said that already in 2014, AGE brought an initiative to commission a month before the delivery deadline was over. Nothing happened at all, despite the fact that the bonds and the contract clearly stipulated that there was no extension. Article 37 also provides that the total or partial delay is the cause of a clear revocation of the contract. So there's not much more to say. They also failed to comply with the quality: open roofs, open doors, disabled interior and exterior accesses, poor quality materials, etc. They failed by making serious modifications to the initial project, 394 beds less, 11 surgeons less, 1,468 square meters less in the emergency room, 27 radiology rooms less. In short, more than 11,800 square meters less than useful surface; totally dysfunctional design, with areas without water points, with areas without bathrooms, with emergencies at one point and radiology at another point totally distant. So they failed to meet all the quality that was designed; they eliminated all the technical criteria of quality and all the criteria that were already working with the professionals themselves who had participated in the design of the center itself. Financial non-compliance, non-compliance with works, deadlines, surface and services, are sufficient reasons to terminate the contract, and in addition that termination should be compulsory for an administration, because the normal thing is that, when a public works is hired or when a service is contracted, it is the company's obligation to comply with the terms of the contract. But there are also several actors here. We have precisely this Pricewaterhouse report, which said on page 14 of its report, as far as funding was concerned, that it was presumed feasible for society to be able to obtain sufficient resources in the financial markets by using the project risk financing formula. That is, here the consultant herself said – and most of the time in the report itself – that the financial market was stable, was valid, as if to obtain funding, which was not true, and at no time did the Junta de Galicia claim to this consultant – that we know – no kind of responsibility on that board of trust in that financial market that was already collapsed. Furthermore, it also indicates the consultant's own report in the final conclusions, which can therefore be concluded that, subject to the quality of the hypotheses considered in the present study, the structure of the concession of construction and exploitation of public works is technically and economically viable, and there are adequate sources of private financing to apply such a scheme as the above. It was absolutely all a lie from the beginning, and the Galician Union did not claim any responsibility. Moreover, he hired the Technical Office for Follow-up to an ad hoc company, with a capital of 3,000 euros, on a social basis in the house of a woman named Ana Sánchez, former high office of the People's Party – a lady who lives in Pontevedra, there is that company – and that woman was hired, through Galaria, the Follow-up Technical Office. With a capital of 3,000 euros, he suddenly got 4 million euros that fell from heaven to follow up on the works of this failed project by Mr Feijóo. Not only works, but quality, and in addition quality for the two years after the hospital opened. That contract is therefore still valid. Political responsibilities, but also legal responsibilities, remain vigilant. And we're not going to stop until it becomes clear here what responsibilities are going to be imposed on this person, but also on the Board itself and the Gallery, of which Mrs Mosquera was the holder at that time, for making this contract. I agree that we have been asking since August and that the Union has denied this parliamentary group. It is important for citizens to know that the Galician Union is denying documentation to Members and Members of this House, as the Bureau of this Parliament has confirmed in its writing to this Member. But there is more, because the concessionaire, obviously, after all we have just told her, has responsibility for non-compliance, for the qualities, for the distribution of the hospital, and the Galician Union is the highest general responsibility and, therefore, she is obliged to demand that responsibility and, on the basis of all the articles contained in the terms of the terms and the contract itself, to revoke that contract immediately. It is intolerable that private companies are taking their own administration, the Galician Union and, therefore, the Greeks and the Greeks, for a cigarette. Here you can do with us what gives them absolutely the desire. The truth is, we understand that they won't accept this opportunity because it's all part of the same goal. That's why they've also deteriorated public services, so they've got all the public staff in the hospital standing, because there's no human resources to attend to that hospital. And so they have three closed rooms of the Mexoneiro, which are also derived from private patients, because the ultimate goal is to destroy the public system, transfer patients to private and implement the Povervisa these 3,600 new charters that you just signed. By the way, it seems like the company seems little and they ask for more. They're asking for "what's mine" to their friends, and therefore you're going to have to answer politically for these facts. I hope that they will continue today in the general tone, the truth, although really – I repeat – is probably of the few opportunities that remain, because soon you will no longer be in that government and we will do this regardless of who it is. Whoever's in the government...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u124	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u125	...this reversal will take place and the hospital will return where it should not go, to the people's hands.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u127	Thank you, President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it ended in 2015, it starts in 2016, and we're still talking about what's the clearest exponent of Mr. Feijó's ill-health management. Again we're talking about Vigo's new private hospital. Now even denounced in the European Union for the administrative irregularities, accountants and merchants of this project. We are not tired of repeating that this failed project today has already begun badly, because the construction of the new public hospital for Vigo area was going to be done through the Public Investment Society, the SEPI, but by the work and grace of Mr Feijóo, fresh to the board, became a private hospital made by the PFI system. By the way, through the back door, so as to avoid all controls and all relevant economic reports to use that system. It started wrong and went wrong, because the initial project has been modified. For what? To cut it, to vary the quality of the material used, to vary the design, changing the functionality, while, by the way, it multiplied by four the initial value, so, ladies and gentlemen, that PFI formula, in addition to the construction, privatize services. So that's where we get the result. The largest health infrastructure in Europe made in times of crisis, absolutely ineffective and also costly, because it is smaller, to be very ill-made, ill-designed, made of Chinese materials, but, ladies and gentlemen, the price of exclusive boutiques. And unfortunately for all of us, it continued to get worse, because they took over that hospital, with a very high point, to an ETU made up of construction and financial companies all of them broken, which paralysed the project for a year until they came to rescue, as Mrs. Solla made very clear the public money. Yes, Mr Solla, yes, all the risk to the public administration, nor to the PriceWaterhouse company – I think it is, or something – nor to the UTE companies. But now that the work is finished, it's when it's clearer that it's not worth it and that, in addition, the evils it suffers, gentlemen, I'm afraid they're irreversible. In fact, they break the sharks one day and the other, too. By the way, nothing to do with the opposing sides, despite what the Counselor has told us here. When a shirt hits the wall, it doesn't untie the wall like in all hospitals, it directly falls down the wall. Yes, yes, but there are things... yes, yes, go there, listen to the people who work there, listen, listen... There are far more serious things, gentlemen. Yes, now they'll have a chance to get nervous, they'll have a chance...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u128	Quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u129	Look, there's a lot more serious things, like design. Look, he's got so many corridors in that hospital that people lose. Professionals have to travel miles every day to do their job, and what is much more serious, even a person died in them without anyone finding out. I wonder what the former health spokesman would be saying, now President of this House, if this project were a two-party government project. Not to mention the hospital debut, ladies and gentlemen, the Aspergillus crochet, remember? Yes, yes, of the failure of sterilization, which has paralyzed all the surgeons, and of the impossibility, ladies, of communicating by telephone within that wonderful hospital because if you forgot to make the phone calls. And yet we also forget that the world's largest health infrastructure, according to Feijóo, has been walking around doing magnetic resonance imaging in a mobile unit. Look, here's her, here's the picture, here's the parking lot of the mobile unit, right next to that mega-hospital. By the way, that Feijóo had no regret at withdrawing the citizenship of Cee and the other comarcasal hospitals that served that mobile unit to resonate for half a year, to keep her surrounded by the private mega-hospital.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u130	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u131	I think Vigo's failure is all said, but the worst thing is, now we're going to have to pay for that defeat for the next 20 years. Pay, although the problem of health in the southern part of Galicia remains unresolved, as evidenced by this massive escape from satisfied citizenship to the Povervisa –6,380 people asked for change, but you only accepted the change to 3,000 –; as demonstrated by the emergencies, as well as by collapses before, and as evidenced by people dying in the corridors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u133	–Finished – while we hope Europe will read our paper for irregularities. Failure in capital letters, gentlemen, and at this point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u134	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u135	...only the reversal remains, and, of course, no cost. I hope you will support this initiative, which is what is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Time's up. Thank you. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u137	Thank you, President. We are going to support this non-law proposal because it coincides with the claim of the population of the health area of Vigo, because it coincides with the claims of the workers and workers of the CHUVI and because it also coincides with the non-law proposal registered by the Joint Group. The construction process of the new Vigo hospital, as the AGE spokesman explained very well, is surrounded from the beginning by scandal, controversy, social and professional confrontation. Conflicts of interest, insolvency and rescue with public money from concessionaire companies, the delay of more than three years, the cuts in the initial project and the overcost of the final project explain the huge social response. All around this new hospital is scandalous. The auction, the concession, the financing, the construction deadlines, the delivery of the work, including the outsourcing of the office of control of the work to Clinical Management, constituted ad hoc for the realization of this work and directed – as the AGE spokesman said – by Ana Sánchez, collaborator of Ana Pastor and expert in privatizing health. The result is a hospital without a laboratory, the reduction of the services promised, multiple deficiencies in the facilities, chaotic personnel transfer, microbiological contamination of the surgeons, lack of essential material for the attention and medication of the people entering and a pay parking lot that is a real theft. This is a robbery, a planned delivery of public resources to private companies that have so far only benefited the Povervisa hospital, which in the face of these deficiencies of the Cunqueiro Álvaro and the chaotic transfer of patients has already recovered over 6,000 people from the healthcare area, who have applied for Povervisa as a reference hospital. Perhaps this was the goal that the Galician Union was looking for when it made the planning for this hospital. Feijóo cancelled the project of the public hospital in Vigo, designed by the previous Government, to follow the health models of the PP governments, based on the privatization of health care. All the costs of public health resources, the health costs of the citizenship of the health area of Vigo, the cost of health and money from all the Greeks and the Greeks, as all the population of Galicia will have to bear the disproportionate costs of this new private hospital. It is necessary to stop this outcome of public health designed and executed by Feijóo and the People's Party. In the model chosen by the board for the center is the source of the problems: a public-private system, with another costume, but similar to Aguirre's. Vigo can become the model for the rest of Galicia, which is why the municipalities of the health area approved motions against the cuts and the privatized health model of the new hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, asking for equal access of conditions for citizenship. Vigo's health area needs to strengthen its entire structure, also primary care, and to make the high-resolution centers that were planned and discarded. It is unacceptable to privatize an activity that could be carried out by the Galician Health Service with its own technical resources, without having to pay to an external company at times that are cutting attention to the sectors that need it most, while lay off and precarious the health care staff. The Staff Board, the staff of the centre and the users continue to report serious deficiencies in the access, quality and equipment of the new centre, which should have been controlled by Clinical Efficiency Management company paid by the concessionaire. The last one that happened was last week, Tuesday. Tuesday night, at eleven and a half o'clock at night, the alarm of Álvaro Cunqueiro rang, saying, "We're on evacuation." Danger, evacuation. I think that in the cardio room -- I know it because a friend has a mother there -- they couldn't handle tachycardia. It's crazy to announce a night megaphony evacuation, because it seems that every time the alarm jumps – it's a problem in the kitchen – it's announced evacuation. I think it's necessary to solve this before people die from a heart attack because of the fear of Sergas. Finally, the concession... It was a joke, but a serious joke. Calling evacuation in a hospital, where people are immobilized, it's not a joke, it's a mistake to see how Sergas works. Finally, the concession of parking management, which is once again a new burden and an economic loss for public health. I've finished, but the only thing I can regret – besides supporting this initiative – is that the People's Party has converted the most wanted hospital by the population, claimed for years, into a hospital rejected by the entire population and a problem, rather than a solution, for people in the Vigo health area. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u139	Good morning. In fact, we are again talking about the new Vigo hospital; once again it is the subject of debate in this Parliament. A hospital that responds to the process of privatizing public health in which the People's Party is insistently engaged. A hospital that is a very clear example of the failure of the policies of the People's Party, with Nuñez Feijó to the head. A very clear example of this star proposal that is nothing more than a failure, a failure that hides favor treatment from friendly companies, that hides the embezzlement of public funds, the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks, to favor this business of friends. The position of the Galician Nationalist Block is well known. From the very first moment, we have manifested our radical opposition to privatization, which is the construction system of the new Vigo hospital. A construction system called euphemistically public-private collaboration, and I say euphemistically because it is actually a system that allows pure and hard privatization, and for example the Vigo hospital, we have it there clear. In case there was some doubt before its opening, it seems obvious that the outcome in which they have converted this hospital clearly shows what we had denounced as active and passive. A model where tax firms take no risks. The risks between the concessionaire and the administration are not shared, it has been shown that the only thing that takes risks is the Administration, that the only ones who take risks are the taxes of the Greeks and the Greeks, who have to pay, with the taxes they pay, the wrong things done. The increase in the final costs of building hospital infrastructures, above those built by the public system, has led to mortgage health budgets for a long time. What I have just said is that we have been repeating it for years here, in this Welsh Parliament, and in many other places, and the truth is the daughter of time, and to show the example of the health budgets for this year 2016, of the more than half of the 139 million euros of budget that theoretically increased the Health Council, nearly 70 million euros – 66.8 million euros –, they go to the new Vigo hospital, for privatized services: catering, laundry, maintenance, cleaning, and to pay the cannon. While spending on public health grows below average, the cost of public-private collaboration increases by 200%. We have already denounced him, and today I want to do it again. A hospital that lost some of its initial targets. A hospital that was born because of the demand in Vigo's health area, and which, after completion of the same, certainly does not respond to that demand and does not respond to the needs of that health area. A hospital that has lost the large area of research, has no services, cannot attend to the whole of citizenship, has no ability to solve the problems of waiting lists, which are increasing exponentially – all this last process has only made exponentially increase the situation of waiting lists in the health area –, decrease in existential resources, beds, surgical services, emergency services, radiology, laboratory... is infinite the ratio of discounts that this new hospital carries. What is clear is that it has higher cost, lower construction quality and less surface. It's obvious that he's caught up with a liar rather than a thigh. They sold that it was a public hospital, built with private funds, and the reality is that it's a private hospital built with public funds, that's the final baggage of this matter. What funding is the risk and adventure of the dealership, bah!, the People's Party gave it all back to the subject. And it's not that I had more than enough opportunities to rescue the concession, that I had them, starting because they were broken companies. Instead of doing that, what he did was look for funding and give them all kinds of facilities, with which, in BNG, we have very clear that recovery for public health is the only way to ensure universal and free public health for the neighbors and neighbors of the Vigo health area. There are mechanisms, there are more than enough arguments to rescue it, there are reasons, what you need is to want to do it. Just as the ideological decision to convert a public hospital in private with public money was made, the opposite decision can be made. The opposite decision...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u140	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u141	...to rescue that hospital from the private hands to make it what it always had to be: a public hospital, managed from the public and for the benefit of the public. We defend and will support this initiative. We need to recover Vigo's new hospital for public health, and, after it's recovered, it's necessary to reverse the outcome they have done with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Golden.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u143	Thank you, President. Good morning to all. I once again stand up for the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro and Galician public health, and I do it with great pride. I do it with great pride because we're defending the best hospital, in the field of innovation, from all over Spain. I do it with great pride because this is the work that the viguens and the viguens wanted and that today is a reality; a reality that has been built in the full economic crisis, a reality that has been built in spite of the tangles and the stones on the path that the Government of Galicia has found for its construction. It's the last time I have to do this part, the last time. It is the ultimate attack that is against the Alvaro Cunqueiro hospital in this Parliament. And it's going to be the worst, and it's gonna be the ones that are needed, the times this party defends Galicia's public health with the facts. We will not defend Galician public health with shouts, defend Galician public health with facts, and the facts are that, in the midst of economic crisis, this Government of Galician Union is creating new health centers, it is creating new hospitals... yes, health centers like Gondomar's, Oia's or Nigrán's, by setting an example of Vigo's health area. This is the Government that has invested most in health infrastructure with less budget every year for the economic crisis. Mrs. Acuña – the socialist spokesman – said that this hospital was going to be built with the funds of the Public Investment Society. Why wasn't it built with those funds? It wasn't built with these funds because when this government arrived at the Galician board, it found out that there was zero euros in that society for this hospital and 2,000 million euros in debts without paying cash in the drawers. That's why he didn't build himself with the Public Investment Society, Mrs. Acuña. [[Applause]] And that's why, Mrs. Acuña, you, who is the creator of "this hospital won't be done," after "this hospital will be small," after "this hospital will have to pay for going to the office," now you're the creator of a new motto, which is, "this hospital is created by Chinese material." Look, Mrs. Acuña, we had to disassemble each and every one of your lies, and we'll keep tearing them apart, there's no problem. We'll continue to disassemble them with investments, facts and realities. This week we have two very good news for this hospital. First, there's going to be a mother's milk bank, which is going to be from March. Oh, of course, of course it is. [[Protests.]] You don't give any importance to this, but this Government and this Parliamentary Group are working for new specialties and better hospital health care, while others keep throwing stones at that hospital. This defense of the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro is the defense that this group has to make and that it has to do for the responsibility of any public representative of Galicia and the health area of Vigo. Mrs. Solla, I am very surprised that you make this non-law proposal, which, by the way, has already been rejected in the commission. I'm not surprised, and I'm not saying it in view of the political trajectory of your group, but in view of the reality of the Cunqueiro Álvaro today. And the reality is, since September 2015, 3,165 surgical operations, 10,400 hospitalizations, 162,000 consultations, and 53,000 emergency care. Mrs. Solla, that's the reality. As long as you remain anchored in the past, trying to destroy the hospital, this hospital gives free and public health care to citizens in the Vigo area. Look, today, if we go to the press, we see a contrast between the Marea model and the People's Party model. This is what happens in the health of the Marea model: "Without medicines and without hospitals, Venezuelan health dies." [[Laughter]] Mrs. Solla, this is Venezuelan health, your model. Remember, right? Remember, Mrs. Solla? Chavez, I swear to you, I vote for Maduro. Mrs. Solla, this is a shelf of a pharmacy in Venezuela, of its model, of "Chávez, I swear, vote for Maduro", where 80% of basic medicines do not exist and are not available to Venezuelan citizens. [[Applause]] In contrast to this, Mrs Solla, this is what happens in Vigo. It is announced that a new microbiology laboratory will be created for the public hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro. Mrs Solla, I would like to discuss your constructive proposals here. Now that we have changed the presidency of the House, by the way, Mr President, I think it is a good opportunity for you to change your model of opposition. What we have to do in this Parliament, which would be most useful for the Greeks, who already have in their power health care at the Alvaro Cunqueiro hospital, is to rescue this Parliament's opposition to improve Galician public health and not to improve that health care, as they are doing every day in this House. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u144	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. Replica. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u145	Thank you, President. Well, Northern Cubazuela. What a great argument, uh, the truth. If you want, someday I'll explain to you how soft blows are done. You're not responsible for your party's not training you. But here we are now talking about Vigo's new hospital, and we're talking about, besides, a hospital where I've explained, and it's not a theme of AGE bringing this initiative here, if the conditions contained in the contract have not been fulfilled from the very beginning. An administration would be, which hires absolutely anything, when the contracting company fails, it has to terminate that contract. The truth is, you've already debated with me on other occasions this subject, and it's quite discouraging to see how it goes back to the same arguments, even saying that everything is absolutely fine, when professionals no longer stand this situation. And he said it was one of the last chances because you're probably not there anymore to carry out this reversal, but also one of the last ones before the mobilizations are reset, which will start now because people no longer stand. Look, you're telling me about the Cunqueiro Alvaro situation with that grandloquency, as if everything was all right... do you know that this is delaying the chemotherapy cycles? It's a very serious thing. I have family in that situation. You don't suffer, you're not there. I'd like you to be there to see how those cycles are delayed. Do you have any idea how people are working in emergencies? Do you have any idea that there are not enough matrons to attend to births and have to attend several at once, and women sometimes leave without the mistress, with an assistant or, you don't know, without her? Do you think this is normal in a 21st century hospital, in a health service that is theoretically public? The truth is, it's a barbarity to the things you say here. They have no idea how the hospital is. You have no absolute knowledge of this, and discussing this with you is like talking to a wall. The wall probably has a more productive dialogue than you do. But look, there are several things here: the contract has been breached, there's a pricewaterhouse report that recommended a number of terms, and you don't seem to be asking the consultant for anything either. There's a technical office hired by a lady of the People's Party, domicile in her house, which seems to have taken 4 million euros, and we're not going to claim anything at all. And, of course, there are a number of situations that are totally incomprehensible and that will bring back thousands of people out on the street. I don't know if the same ones as the other one, but of course, they went out on the street on the day that the votes of the autonomous elections were to be cast out to you because this situation is unbearable, it can't be supported by citizenship or by professionals. And it's good to laugh at people who are having a hard time! You mustn't step on those services. I am! I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u146	Thank you. Please, Mrs Solla, about the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u147	Yes, I'm sorry, president. We accept the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u148	Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Hippolyto Farínas Sobrino and six other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Union of Galicia to enhance the competence of readers through the network of libraries
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u149	The following amendments have been tabled, one from the Joint Parliamentary Group and the other from the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u150	For the defence of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fernández Gil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u151	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Galician Autonomy Statute states that it is up to the Autonomous Community to defend and promote the cultural values of the people of Galicia, and it also confers exclusive competence on libraries of interest of the community. In this framework, the Galician Library Law is inserted, which seeks to respond to the challenges of improving the best services of the Welsh library and the bibliographic heritage. According to this legislative document, libraries perform important functions in important constitutional mandates, such as the access of everyone to culture, the participation of citizenship in cultural life and the preservation of the cultural heritage of the people of Galicia, of which the bibliographic heritage is part. Undoubtedly, libraries consist of a space of literacy and learning, around the management of both textual and audiovisual information, without losing, of course, their role in promoting reading habits and improving the competences of reading comprehension. In view of this, the People's Parliamentary Group believes that the Galician Union, since its past legislation, has taken steps to advance the acquisition and improvement of public competence by citizens in general, and in particular by students of different educational levels. Over the past few years, the educational and cultural policies of the German Government, oriented towards overcoming the conception of libraries as mere bookstore, have worked to visualize these libraries as an important tool for promoting learning and cultural dynamization. In the search for this goal, libraries today are more than just physical spaces, as they consist of resources and opportunities for a better and more modern learning. We are immersed in a society of knowledge, in which the learning process must be an ongoing work. In this context, as I have already pointed out earlier, the policy of the Galician Union has made it possible to deepen the conception of libraries as tools with enormous potential for the development of society, both from an educational and cultural point of view. From the educational perspective, the school library is called to be a strategic element for pedagogical innovation; an element that helps to revitalize educational practices and the cultural life of the centers. The Council for Culture and Education is committed to strengthening and improving school libraries, and this is proof of this is the Plan for the Improvement of School Libraries, known as Plambe, and the LIA Plan for School Libraries, for reading, information and learning, two plans that have enabled libraries to be transformed into spaces where, on the one hand, the student can develop an autonomous use of all kinds of sources for the realization of academic work, teachers can put into practice active teaching methodologies, and the entire educational community can approach the cultural resources found in the library, thus achieving a triple objective, since, on the one hand, the autonomy of the student is allowed; the promotion of active teaching methodology is also permitted, and, on the other hand, the democratization of the school community's access to cultural resources. Plambe has made it possible to substantially improve the equipment, resources and services that school libraries offer to the entire educational community, and in this academic course 575 centers participate in this plan. Over the last ten years, the centres included in the Plambe have received support for updating the documentary funds, for the renovation of furniture and for the acquisition of equipment necessary for the library to perform its training functions, but also for management and dynamization, thus making the school libraries of the city of Galicia an example of the integration of print culture and digital culture, and always bearing in mind that it is the professor who is the great asset of the school libraries in Galicia. On the other hand, the LIA Plan, which includes actions such as the Plambe itself or the so-called Time to read, or the incorporation of digital reading into the student's reading experience, has allowed in the last period, 2010-2015, to improve the skills of reading, writing and researching skills and the use of information from the student in Galicia. The Council has already expressed its intention to renew the LIA Plan for the period 2016-2020, and therefore it seems appropriate that it is the German Parliament who supports this initiative and therefore also makes constructive approaches to the development of this new plan. It is ultimately a question of generalizing the school library model as a centre for reading, information and learning resources; a centre that leads and supports active methodologies, essential for the acquisition of key competences for 21st century students; and in particular comprehensive reading and skills for the use, processing and production of information. But, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, libraries are tools with enormous potential for the development of society, not only from an educational point of view, but also from a cultural point of view. In this sense, it is necessary to highlight the important work carried out from the network of public libraries in Galicia to the promotion of reading. From the People's Parliamentary Group we understand that the promotion of reading has to be conceived as a common task of society as a whole, joining the efforts of all actors responsible for cultural, social and educational policies with the support of the media and the involvement of the associations of the business private sector that are involved in the book's ecosystem. The consolidation of a read society must be the way to conceptualize reading as a basic tool in the exercise of citizenship. To move forward in this way, the dynamization of reading and the improvement of librarian services constitute the central axes of Galician cultural policy. The libraries are now centred on cultural action in towns and cities, and for this reason, in order to improve the services offered by the Galician public library network, the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order is promoting various activities. Aids for improving and renewing libraries' bibliographic collections and municipal reading agencies; aid that increased their staffing in these last years, reaching an amount of EUR 176,420, from which a total of 109 municipalities from the four provinces of Greece benefited. There is also the Reading Stimulation Program, which has been very busy in collaboration with the municipalities, and which in 2015 allowed a total of 711 activities to the 192 libraries and reading agencies that were part of this initiative; a program in which 14,220 people, especially children and children, participated this past year, were able to approach the book and read in a playful way through different activities. There are also Fridays in the bookstores, an activity that has allowed about 80 meetings with writers and writers to bring editorial news to the public and dynamize the book and reading. There is also the acquisition of editorial news, which, in addition to supporting the editorial sector, allows to keep up-to-date the funds of the book of the libraries of the public system. We also have other activities, such as the Galician Platform, for e-book lending in public libraries; a platform created in October 2014 and in which during its first year of operation the 5,678 users and users active in it could already make about 12,000 electronic loans, thus also bringing in a form of legal consumption of electronic resources available on the network. [[Applause]] Finally, the reading clubs or the actions of cultural volunteering, which make the library, throughout the year, a meeting, reading and dialogue space for all. Well, in the light of the above, it is clear the commitment of the Greek Government to the policies of dynamizing public libraries, both in the educational and cultural fields. But in the face of a task of such importance, since it is present as its ultimate objective the construction of a society with fundamental critical capacity, should never be in conformity with the fact, but, by applying the socratic formula, there is always much to be done. So today's presentation of this non-legislative proposal, with which we ask this House to support the call for the Government of Greece to deepen the design and planning of those measures that enable the training and literacy strategies of the Greek society to be enhanced by the reinforcement of the work carried out from the public library network and the school library network. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Gil. Intervention of parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u153	Mr. President, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, the PP brings to this Parliament a non-legislative proposal on public and school libraries, in which general objectives are marked, not concrete and without a prior analysis, as soon as possible, so that we can draw conclusions from the current situation in which the public libraries and the schools are located. With absolute certainty, the absence of these previous considerations that must accompany a non-law proposal is in line with what the party that supports the Government and the Government itself already has in common: the concealment of the reality of a country in desperate conditions and at the limit in the economic, social and cultural spheres. And on the latter, cultural, the conclusions made public by the Council of Europe on its linguistic policy is an irrefutable example. Ladies and gentlemen, these kinds of proposals made at the gates of an election are clearly electoralists. But I'm not going to abound in this argument, because the moment we're living is extraordinary and the next elections we can define them as historical. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u154	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u155	You're at the door to see how the citizen will send them to the opposition banks. End of cycle, gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Your non-law proposal is pure propaganda because it will not apply any of the alleged proposals that have been adopted. And it's pure propaganda because it hides the state of public and school libraries in this country. [[Murmurs.]] It's pure propaganda because we lack this X-ray. [[Murmurs.]] This situation opened me up to a brief exposition of the reality to which the PP and the Government took the libraries. Let's review the data provided by the INE. Number of libraries down. In 2008, 550; in 2010, 522; in 2012, 505; currently 497. The visits to our libraries also indicate a very serious decline in them. And let's go back to data for years: 2008, 11,890,775; in 2012, 10,709,770; and in 2014, 9,832,080. Books that are incorporated into funds are becoming scarce due to cuts, and staff has also been reduced. Cities neighborhoods and city parishes still lack libraries; not at all, the fact that more than one million citizens – and I say a 1.023.83, i.e., 38% of the population – are members of this kind of entity reflects the high interest of the citizenry, which contrasts with the reality of data that can be evaluated as very negative. And with this data, won't you have anything to say to the Government? Shouldn't any criticism or self-criticism come out of these benches? Ladies and gentlemen, this data reflects an absolute lack of commitment and involvement on the part of the Government which presides over Mr Feijóo, who is much more concerned about what happens in Madrid or the Spanish unit than about solving the problems that he himself causes. As a matter of fact, libraries in educational centres survive the spells they receive, coming from most of their own budgets of the centres, from European funds; and they lack specialized staff, when they should be attended by library specialists. In conclusion, we cannot support this non-police proposal because it doesn't say anything, it doesn't commit to anything and it doesn't make any concrete proposals. That's why we're presenting this replacement amendment, and I hope that the PP, if it's really concerned about improving public and school libraries, should add: "The Parliament calls on the Government of Greece to enhance the training and literacy strategies, strengthening a network of public and school libraries with at least the following actions: establishing an agreement with Fegamp to enhance the network of public libraries and Bibliobus; establishing an agreement with the University of Coruña, specifically with the Faculty of Humanities and specifically with the specialized library. Cooperation agreement with Italian companies abroad. The application of measures of positive discrimination to the benefit of the writers and writers of Greece, the printed and digital editions of the work in English and the translation into English of literary and scientific works in other languages. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u156	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Burgo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good already, almost late, gentlemen. The truth is that I was going to start my speech by saying that I was struck by the look of the People's Party in presenting this, but I'm going to give you a positive touch, because the truth that really impacts me is the courage that you have to present an initiative of this kind, as regards culture, which is the sector and the advice that most cuts have lived since 2009, with a consolidated global down of 56%, but above all, to present it on a sector like the one in libraries, the most vulnerable, and on what have been made the hardest and hardest cuts since the arrival of Mr Feijóo; some cuts that are about 70%, gentlemen. And you come here to talk about the importance of libraries -- no, we know that -- and what they did for libraries -- 70%. But it's more, I haven't calculated any more about 2009, I'm going to give you -- who don't know them, probably -- the cut-off figures about a year in which you ruled and made the budget, 2011. There was already a downhill earlier, but I'm going to tell you the love you have, the importance and the deep down on libraries. Municipal library equipment. There are currently 160,000 euros for two years – 80,000 each year. Do you know how long this game has been down since 2011? 70%. For foundational lots and acquisition of bibliographic funds there were 1,800,000 in 2011 before much more. Do you know how long there is now? 560,000 euros; a drop of 69%, another 70%. Promotion of the book, do you know the fall since 2011? 56%; since 2009, 68%. The promotion of reading, which we have to do is so important according to this initiative – which is important, of course – has fallen by 66% since 2011; and by 2009 by 81%. This is the love you have for libraries. This is how important it is. But the thing isn't there, because according to how important you are to libraries, you know that the most important for the public, for citizenship, are the municipal libraries, the ones closest to citizenship. You know they only give grants... better, let's turn the sentence around!: Do you know that 42% of Galician people in their libraries don't have a single grant? Because it turns out that grants for the acquisition of bibliographical funds are only given to municipalities libraries of less than 30,000 inhabitants. They therefore leave practically half the population. We could say what you say, we're going to... I don't know, a prize. It's the least money they have, the smallest municipalities, so we give them a lot of money. Yes, yes, I'll tell you how much money they get: the municipalities of less than 2,000 inhabitants receive 500 euros – you can buy many books! – between 2,000 and 5,000, 1,000 euros; from 5,000 to 10,000 inhabitants, 1,500 euros. Of course, with all this, what do you come to tell us about the libraries, when we had a 70% higher library budget than you? Moreover, the decision is such that the libraries, which you passed a library law, Law 5/2012, in 2012, and the additional second provision of that law commanded, ordered, that within six months we had here in Parliament the Map of libraries in Galicia. It entered into force on 27 June 2012. We're, if I'm not wrong, January 27, 2016. We don't have Galician Library Map, we don't have it. So what are you saying about the libraries?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u159	We have also made an amendment, which you know, that it is a very serious one: that they present an important plan, with budgets and timelines; that they increase the aid, subsidies and budgeting of libraries; and that at last four years later they bring to this Parliament the Map of libraries of Galicia. In the meantime, I don't know what we're going to sink. The well where to merge the Greek libraries, for nothing else to sink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Burgo. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u161	Good morning to all and to all. We are faced with an initiative that is representative of the People's Party's liquid, liquid and ethereal politics, and not because of the responsibility, certainly, of the person who brought it, but of the group that sustains that person, because we are facing a policy resulting from the battering of cuts. In the initiative, you're talking about pushing, that the Union has to push. No, the public administration has a responsibility not to push, but to guarantee a basic right as is the right of access to culture, and at the same time the right of access to education and training, because for that they must serve libraries, because they are a fundamental part of a democratic society. At his initiative, even at one point it seemed that libraries were like an abstract entity where there were no people. Here you spoke of the professor, but on the initiative it does not appear; as neither does the staff who carries the libraries of the public network, which are precisely the libraries who know this cannon that here defended the AGE that had to be eliminated, and exempting the libraries, museums, archives, hemerotheques, phonographs, and public libraries of the canon for loan or acquisition, and I want to remember that here you refused to support that exemption. You therefore supported something totally contradictory about this initiative here. When we talk about the regulatory bases of the multi-year grant to municipalities for the improvement of bibliographic conditions, we, the Alternative Gaga de Left, denounce that it was a discriminatory and unfair subsidy. And if we took both initiatives, that of the canon and that of the regulatory bases, it was an attack on libraries, it was an attack on the right of access to culture, it was a bibliocide. We can go on. We've already talked about budgets devoted to culture in general and libraries in particular. The libraries, both in the public network and in schools, through program 423A, only had cuts. In the year 2014 or the big cut. It then continued in 2015, frozen all items except for the acquisition of bibliographic funds, which was reduced to EUR 355,000. And this year, all frozen basically. And we're talking about school libraries. As for those economic cuts, we have to talk logically about the cuts that were made in the educational centres at the staff, that teacher who has to attend to the libraries. Because when cut into the teaching staff, the time possibilities for keeping that library dynamized, for keeping that library open, and for keeping it logically with all guarantees, are shortened. Because when you cut into staff, and you cut the time possibilities, the library, logically, remains less open hours. Therefore, your initiative – I repeat – is a successful initiative. Yeah, we're in favor of libraries, we believe in libraries and the task they do, but then reality is stubborn. The reality of economic data, the reality of the various initiatives that you have put down with your majority vote, clearly indicates that you are not in favour of libraries, whether in the public network or in the school libraries, because you can't do any more with less. That's a fallacy in which you're installed and they're still defending it day and day. And we have shown that since Núñez Feijóo ruled, what happened in Galicia has been a continuing attack on all the cultural possibilities of Galicia. And let's not say no more in the book sector in English, let's not say in the translation sector in German. In all these aspects that were defended in committee, and also in the plenary, you said no. So this initiative is understood as an initiative to want to praise a government that really does it is to dynamize the cultural possibilities of the Galician librarian system and also of the cultural system in general. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u162	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u163	Good day or good afternoon, I don't know very well anymore. In any case, as this is an initiative that goes from reading understanding, I wanted to read to you the literal content of the initiative, because I feel interested in knowing what we're going to vote for. It says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to deepen in the design and planning of those measures that enable the training and literacy strategies of the Greek society from the effort and development of the public library network and the school library network." I mean, we're on an initiative what you're going to tell us is that we have to deepen what's being done, and to deepen what's being done is to sink the book sector, sink the public libraries and school libraries in this country. The truth is, it's a little surprising that the lack of ability even to recognize the reality of the People's Group, and it wants us to do debates here that sacralize the idea that the German Government is the best government possible and that it does everything very well. Unfortunately this is not so, and the theme of libraries – as has already been said here – is a sample of how the programme of demolition of Greek culture has affected all areas, and significantly those that are also more important, not only because libraries are irradiating centres of culture, but also because libraries must be an important element of knowledge, of social dynamization and of bringing culture closer to our country. Unfortunately, none of this was like this. We have a Galician library law that is published in the DOG but that didn't happen, because it has already been said that the law has not been developed. They don't even have the Library Map they promised us in 2009 in this Parliament. They have no intention of expanding or improving the library network. They removed the aid they had established during the Bipartisan Government so that all public libraries in this country, including municipalities, would have help for their books. You have eliminated these kinds of actions that they did, precisely, to provide the necessary funds and resources for the entire network that allows them to be brought closer to these libraries. You've cut into staff, cut into training and training for that staff as well. We've checked how we maintain discrimination for news in the English language, not only because we've reduced the stakes for the purchase of books in English, and in general all support for our publishing sector, but also because it causes discrimination, because the news in the Greek language comes very late to the public librarian system and therefore is an important limitation on access to the book in the language of our country. We also see how many of the programs and activities that have been done in connection with the promotion of books and reading have been cut off. Today, indeed, in many libraries there is activity because there is a staff engaged in social work that often makes it impossible, but not because the Galician Union has designed a strategy and is really strengthening and supporting access to the book. We also want to say that it seems to us a little rocky, when we saw how recently that canon was applied from libraries, which severely discriminates against the public system in Galicia, who come here to tell us that what we have to do is to praise and bless what the Government of Greece is doing in public library matters. BNG will not support this initiative because we do not want to congratulate what the Government is doing, because we believe that the Government, in that policy of demolition it has done, has also destroyed a part of the structure below, both at the level of the school libraries and at the level of the public libraries in this country, which are more than the nodal libraries. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u165	Thank you, President. Mrs. Pontón, you were saying in your speech now that this group on occasion the only thing I came to do was say that the Government of the Union all the actions it carried out were correct, that it was all very well. Well, look, the opposition is careful, because maybe we'll turn this House into a manic debate, because for you everything is always wrong and they're unable to recognize the slightest thing the Government does right. They have a blindfold in their eyes so they can recognize absolutely nothing. [[Applause]] I'm saying, unfortunately, that's a bad thing or a constant in the interventions of all opposition groups in this House, and I hope that doesn't push this House away from citizenship. I say this because, in the end, the opposition is constantly pointing out that everything is wrong, as I said before, but of course, it turns out that, at the same time that one is abrogating representation and always speaking on behalf of the people, we say that everything is wrong, when we go down to consult with the community involved in this issue, as are the users of libraries, as is the school community, we see that these measures that are being implemented by the Galician Union are very well valued and even achieve very positive results for the educational community. So, many times, when we want to talk about representation, when we pride ourselves on being the only voice that represents citizenship in the Greek Parliament, maybe we have to first talk to the citizen to find out what his opinion is. In that sense, I would also like to say that before we talked about it as a fallacy the possibility of doing more with less. Well, I don't know, maybe it's a fallacy to do more with less, which is of course a reality that other governments have shown that they've done much less with more. And that's really serious and lack of commitment to Greek society. That's really serious. [[Applause]] I'm saying other governments have done less to have more, and there's data for that. For example, school library improvement plan, a plan implemented by the two-party government. In the four years of the two-party government, having more, an economic approach to this plan of EUR 3.586.000 has been reached. The same period of the People's Government, with less, what has come to this program was €5,744,000. You see how it's possible to do more with less, the same way that you've done much less with more? [[Applause]] Finally, I believe – as I said before – that we do little favor to the Greek society if we always fall into this manic debate of who are the good and who are the bad. I believe that those who are sitting here are all public representatives and we all have the duty and commitment to society to defend their interests. In that sense, I think you should be aware of the programs that are being implemented by the Galician Board for improvement of public libraries and for improvement of school libraries, and in that sense we would like them to support this initiative. Obviously, they announced that they will not do so. I just want to point out, with regard to the two amendments, that our group will not accept either. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u166	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Let's start with the votes. We start with the vote on the first non-legislative motion by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Yes, Mr. Núñez Centeno? What do you want the word for? We voted on the initiative of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. [[Murmurs.]] Let us repeat the vote. It's a new device and we're still not familiar with it. Let us repeat the vote. We voted on the first non-law proposal, which is number 2,881. We vote. Let's repeat. We are voting on hepatitis, in particular. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the entry into force of the National Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C in the National Health System and its application in the area of Galician prisons. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u167	Yes, Mr. Núñez Centeno, why do you want the word? [[Mr. Núñez Centeno utters words that are not perceived.]] Give your voice to the scene. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u168	The Galician People's Party has shown its commitment to public health and, above all, to the treatment of hepatitis C. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u169	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u170	Of course, as a public health professional, I'm not going to be given engagement lessons from the front desk.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u171	Quiet, please. Silence! It is explaining a change of vote, and also interesting change of vote. [[Murmurs.]] Go ahead, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u172	It is treated to the sick since before they have approved the new medicines. It's not an economic issue. The president spoke of 75 million, 3,000 sick people treated and without failing to meet the target of deficit. It's a competitive subject. The Health Council can't invade prisons...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u173	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u174	...and you can't decide what's done inside the prisons either. A few days ago, there was a sentence that changed and gave Sergas reason against prison institutions, and besides...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u175	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u176	...has modified the competency framework.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u177	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u178	I'm sorry. Let me finish, President, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u179	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u180	We continue to maintain our commitment to public health. The advisor contacted Penitentiary Institutions... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u181	Thank you, thank you. The explanation of vote is understood. Thank you. [[Applause]] Mrs Acuña, this is not appropriate; this is an explanation of vote because there has been a change in what the spokesperson announced yesterday, and as there is a change, it is in accordance with Article 93. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the word, Mrs. Acuña, you don't have the word. No, no, no. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Madam Now, you don't have the floor. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the floor. You know the regulation better than I do. No, no, I'm not falsifying anything. [[Murmurs.]] To this... No, no, sorry. Yesterday you weren't... but I told you it didn't work because there wasn't... You're not right. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, but it's not coming, Mr. Jorquera. No, it doesn't. On this issue it is closed. [[Murmurs.]] But what's the point of order? [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] But that's it... you explained it, you explained it, you know, Mr. Jorquera. No, no, no... the explanation of vote does not reopen debate. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] No, no, Mr. Jorquera, no, no. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] We are voting, and I am going to read it for you to know, the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group in Galicia on the development by the Greek Government and the referral to the Galician Parliament of an agenda for the strengthening of the industrial sector. We vote. Voting of the G.P.'s Non-Law Proposition: of the Galician Socialists, on the initiative of Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and three other Members, on the elaboration by the German Government and the referral to the Galician Parliament of an agenda for strengthening the industrial sector in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u182	We are voting on the non-law proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in the field of gender equality and violence and the demands to be made by the Central Government in this regard. You have already stated that the amendment of the Mixed Group is accepted. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Leave mental health for another time. Better. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of gender equality and violence and the demands to be made by the central government in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. This proposal is therefore adopted, not unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u183	We voted for the Non-Law Proposition of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government to guarantee the right to a decent housing. We vote. [[Murmurs.]] Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez and Ms. Anne Belén Pontón Mondelo, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government and the demands to be made by the Central Government to ensure the right to a decent housing, to avoid the consequences of the evictions and to prevent the cuts of basic supplies to vulnerable persons and family units in Galicia. The voting resulted in the following: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u184	We voted in favour of the non-legislative proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative on the submission by the Government of Greece of a comprehensive programme of actions covering the set of recommendations prepared by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the presentation by the Government of Greece of a comprehensive programme of actions covering the set of recommendations prepared by the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u185	We are voting on the proposal for a non-law of the People's Parliamentary Group on the action to be taken by the German Government in order to improve research and innovation in the shipbuilding sector. I made a mistake before and apologize. [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira asks for the floor.]] Mr. Tellado, about the amendments? [[Mr. Tellado Filgueira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] You don't accept the amendments. We therefore vote unless the amendments are accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira and seven other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in order to improve research and innovation in the shipbuilding sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 30. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u186	We voted the Non-Law Proposition of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left Alternative on the termination by the Galician Council of the contract signed with the concessionary UTE of the new Vigo hospital and the recovery of its public management. Mrs. Solla has already commented that she accepted the amendment. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the termination by the Galician Board of the contract signed with the UTE concessionaire of the new Vigo hospital and the recovery of its public management. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 30; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u187	Finally, we are voting on the proposal for a non-law of the People's Parliamentary Group on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in order to enhance the competence of readers through the network of libraries. The amendments were not accepted. We therefore vote the proposal not of law. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. The people of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Hippolyto Farínas Sobrino and six other Members, on the measures to be taken by the Union of Galicia to enhance literacy through the network of libraries. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 39; votes against, 29; abstentions, 1. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Institutional statement on the annual commemoration day in memory of the victims of the Holocaust.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u188	Before moving to the next item on the agenda, the parliamentary groups send me an institutional statement on the annual commemoration day in memory of the victims of the Holocaust. I'll read it. "On November 1, 2005" - please, I'm saying that all groups have passed an institutional statement on the annual commemoration day in memory of the victims of the Holocaust, I said that they read it - "the General Assembly of the United Nations, at its 42th plenary session, reaffirms that the Holocaust, which resulted in a third of the Jewish people and countless members of other minorities being killed, will always be a warning to the whole world of the dangers of hatred, fanaticism, racism and prejudice. And it also decided to appoint this assembly on January 27th as the International Day of Annual Commemoration in memory of the victims of the Holocaust, all of them victims of Nazism, among which are also Greek and Greek. The General Assembly has rejected, and this Parliament also does so, any denial, whether partial or total, of the Holocaust as a historical fact and has condemned without reservation—condemning that this Parliament also does—all manifestations of religious intolerance, incitement, harassment or violence against people or communities based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs take place wherever they take place. The Galician Parliament notes with the United Nations General Assembly that the ignorance and disregard of human rights give rise to acts of abhorrent barbarism for human consciousness. The Galician Parliament, one more year, and according to the letter and spirit of the declaration of November 1, 2005, of the 42nd General Assembly of the United Nations, calls upon the Government of the United Nations to work against the possible outbreaks of racism, xenophobia and discrimination based on ethnic origin or religious beliefs, and citizens and their organizations to remain ever vigilant so that no more such regime as the Holocaust has produced can even settle between us or anywhere in the world. Santiago de Compostela, January 27, 2016" This is the statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u189	We move on to the next item on the agenda, which corresponds to petitions, as was announced on the agenda yesterday. Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín and three other G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the need to modify state and autonomous legislation in order to achieve comprehensive prevention and protection against gender-based violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u190	Mrs. Adam has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u191	Thank you, President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Vice President. Today is a day when we feel anger, powerlessness. We got up this morning and we could see a new one, at least I was one of the first ones I saw, where a girl, almost a 17-month-old baby, because she died yesterday after being thrown out of the window and after her mother was murdered. This reality, which I certainly believe we all share as terrifying, and which leads us to think that we have to do, and that it actually goes far beyond a term, which goes far beyond a name, has to go to the very heart of the matter. What do we have to do in front of a macho society that also provokes macho violence? This is not just a debate on a nominal issue, Mr Vice-President, not only the question of what is feminicide, but indeed the whole problem of what is feminicide. Because tell me if this morning you didn't think if this murdered girl we should call it feminicide or not. You know that in 2015 in Galicia eight women were murdered and two girls. We hoped that once the normal sessions had been resumed in Parliament, this session, because the Secretary General of Equality, or you in this plenary session, would appear to go a little further than the convictions, go a little further than the minutes of silence we all share and put on the table to do in this situation. I almost stink when I get up here and say we're on a study committee, because we've been on a study committee for almost two years, and for us this is not to prepare an opposition or anything like that. We really want action to be taken. But in this study committee I think there are already some issues that you probably and the general secretary-general of equality would probably have looked at more often. Because the German Government is sure that after a murder it only does two things: one is to condemn and the other is to call the complaint, to encourage the complaint. And I want to put that second part in parenthesis, because we could see if we looked a little bit at the situation with women who are actually in a situation of violence, and for that we simply pick up the statement in that study committee, Mr. Vice President, both by Galician Psychology College, as well as by the Galician College of Workers and Social Workers, as by the Immelga itself, as by the directors of women's information centres, as well as by the directors of foster homes. By putting in interventions, being all very important, they showed an X-ray on the great problem we have in Galicia: that it is a lack of coordination of all services, a lot of bureaucracy for women who are in a psychologically very vulnerable situation – so they are living – and lack of real resources both in the councils, the information centers of women, workers and social workers, who are actually saturated with work, as in the judges themselves. And then the feeling that victims of deprotection have once they take that step. As you know very well, and I am sure that Members and Members of the House too, an average of fourteen women a day in Galicia report. Let's think about that number, look at it, see this House and think about how many women a day will file their complaint. This is a very small part of the women who suffer from violence, we're talking about between 30% and 40% of the women who suffer from that violence. So they'll probably ask, and why don't they report the others, what are they, even if they hear on repeated occasions? Well, look, according to the latest macro-enquisition of gender violence, published just by the ministry, because they don't give it enough importance, because they naturalized that way of living 44%, because they're really afraid of 26% and out of shame – because they find out about their loved ones, their relatives, the people around them, their neighbors, their coworkers and workmates – another 26%. So when you overcome that naturalization of that situation, when you overcome fear, and when you overcome shame and reach a center, a police station, or you warn from a hospital, what do you find? What many professionals call a true career of obstacles. In that situation, after overcoming fear, after overcoming naturalization and after shame, there is a career of obstacles, a career of obstacles and a lack of coordination, resources, and support, on many occasions, because there is no figure that accompanies or coordinates all these actions. And that leads to the fact that, on many occasions, Galicia's order of 20% in Galicia withdraws the complaint. It is true that there are times when there are promises by the aggressor that it will never happen again. We also take care of the surveys that about 30% believe they will change; of course, part of the psychological situation is another 28%; also again of fear, of the pressure on children, another important part, more than 20%; or by feeling threatened another 20%. I think, Mr Vice-President, that one third of the protection orders are denied. And we don't have any studies on why they are denied, which are the reasons why when a woman claims to feel unprotected and that she needs an order of protection – which on many occasions is a feeling after she has passed all these processes that I'm enunciating – she decides that this perception of that woman is not right and that she is denied that order of protection. That's also a problem that also leads many other women, in view of that possible scenario, to work to avoid taking that step, not to present the complaint and to enter into that entire career of obstacles to having to explain that situation. In fact, let me read a few words to him, many women withdraw their complaints because it's an agony to endure a process of which you never go out: "You have to go through a scanner to decide someone, who doesn't know what you're suffering, whether you lie or not; you have to breathe in front of a cold judge or a cold judge without any empathy, in front of a psychologist, in front of a police officer and a forensic officer, who in the second consultation doesn't have your record, doesn't know who you're talking to; in front of the friends, the family, the people you don't know, and yet put it in doubt." I can't anymore, says a woman who was a victim of gender-based violence in a letter before she committed suicide. This is the reality that lives every day, and in view of this, of the workers themselves who told us here, in this House: few resources, come late. We know that even today no woman can ask for the wages of freedom because the order is closed until it is published, we assume that in March, as is usual. There's no such resources, there's no such coordination, there's got to go out the Vigo Violence Court asking, asking for another psychosocial team, helping, really another judge, another judge, and we've seen it in the press, and you know it perfectly, Mr. Vice President. And that's the reality: the realities are that women are murdered, that coordination doesn't increase, that services don't increase, that resources don't increase, that we're a little bit in the situation too much. I already know that today an initiative has been approved, which we discussed here yesterday, proposed by the Socialist Party. That's why the question is, what do you think should be changed in the laws in force so that you can stop this massive murder of women that we call feminicide? And you ask me why we have this special interest in introducing this term, because we believe that the feminicide victim statute...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u192	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u193	...has nothing to do with the status of other victims. I just told you what a victim's perception and experience is. Would you not consider including social character in the law of 2004, by means of a feminicide victim statute, not improve the lives of women who suffer from gender-based violence? This debate is concrete, but in addition to concrete, it affects the lives of many women. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u194	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Adán, you did indeed make a storyteller of things that were told in that Commission, in which I am going to tell you, moreover, that I agree that it is now going for two years, in January 2014, that it began its journey, and it did as it had been closing its work, without putting more haste on it than necessary; but it is true that conclusions in order to start executing them are necessary to keep them from the Government, and that was the reason why that parliamentary commission was created, which is true that it was necessary for many people to listen to it, there were many witnesses who needed to be taken into account. But I agree, if that's what I understood – because I thought I understood that – that there is a time when it is necessary to close those jobs in order to start executing them, because I am aware, like you, and also an acquaintance, of the things that are being said in that Commission and of the need for action as well. It is not to be expected that you will tell the Commission, i.e. not to do anything until you tell the Commission, no, but it is also true that this Commission was created to have effective conclusions and to be able to start implementing them. Having said this, I don't think it's going to start again. Whenever a member of the Greek Government appears, I think it is obliged to do – of course you did – a recognition to those eight women and two girls who were murdered last year, and also a call, once again, and I think it's important and I'll always do it. You also do it as a political group, first a recognition, a public expression in front of society that there is an absolute rejection of violence, and then they continue to have a great deal of impact on the need to denounce. You know that of the deaths that occurred last year there was only one previous complaint, and still above it had been withdrawn, with which I think the complaint, to tell women that they don't hesitate to denounce if they think they have to, it's something that must always be done. You also know that it's not the only solution to complaints, because seven deaths didn't even have complaints, but of course you can avoid any situation by inciting complaints, I think it won't be too much, and you'll never be able to tell it again. You also know – as I was doing in your intervention, since it was especially in the judicial field – that the High Court itself of Justice with regard to the two specific judges of gender violence asked for reports, and the reports that were also provided by the judiciary say what they say: the competition is from the Council of Galicia. And in this, too, each one has to do his own skills, and among all of them, make his own global competition. And you know there's schedule of days in those judges. And you also know that these reports say that right now, by saving and considering that there are really very serious cases that are being dealt with in relation to the workload, that it is a burden of work that other judges have that do not treat something as important as macho violence, but in that regard and what was asked in Vigo was, in particular, a support judge. You know there's a report that says that, and you know that this is a competition that ultimately corresponds to the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, and I think you know it perfectly well. I agree, of course, I would miss more! – it is your right and my obligation – to appear and speak in plenary, not only in the Commission, and not only in the Committee on Equality, of Gender Violence, which follows there and sometimes manifests itself discarnatedly with death and murder, but that although there is no murder of gender violence there, and therefore we also speak in the House about all this I think it is good for everyone. I offer you the will of consensus, I will answer your questions in your inquiry, of course, but I believe that the first is the will of consensus, and for this reason the Commission was created. I think that desire for consensus must always be there, and from then on the Government of Greece will continue to have it. In any case, there has always been that desire for consensus, and you know that we support the state law of 2004, we approve the autonomous law of the year 2007, and you now want to introduce new measures, all that has to do with the recognition of feminicide. I'm going to talk about it now, I'm telling you now that if everything is based on consensus so that things can be executed, and everything is based on doing things with the speed of the usual, that we have to talk about doing things quickly when we're talking about this, talking about the two years that the Commission has been doing. I think what we have to do now is try to get everyone to agree on the measures to be taken, and also on the amendments, on the law of the year 2007, which is what we have to do, regardless of the political opinion we may have on the organic law of the year 2004, which is state. Ask me if you believe the Government of Greece that it is necessary to amend the state law of the year 2004. Yes, we believe that, for this reason, the Parliamentary Commission was doing what it was talking about at the beginning of the intervention, to see what needs to be changed in the law of 2004 and what needs to be amended in 2007. That's why we're listening to those who know best, to those who see everything that happens about macho violence in everyday life, and who can create their conclusions. So yes, they can be done and for that they are the conclusions, and for that I say it is necessary to have them in a reasonable time. Besides, I think it's the common feeling of all political forces, also at the national level about the law of 2004. The People's Party has just said it, the Socialist Party has just said it, the new groups that were formed, and we have just said it. We can also say it, that it is necessary for each – with different proposals – to deepen and make changes to the law of the year 2004. Of course that will also have to be transmitted to autonomous laws, in our case to the law of 2007. I think things have already been done, and it is that the recognition of the victims of gender-based violence of the sons and daughters who live with women victims of gender-based violence that did not exist until this year. That he had to exist long before? Probably, but look, the truth and truth is it was a legal change this year, as you know, to which you made that recognition, which was very necessary, and it simplifies and facilitates many other measures. You also ask me whether there is a need to modify, in the sense of broadening, various criteria for believing the situation of male violence, since a situation of masculine violence is now under way. Yes, I agree, too, of course they must be enlarged. I am also pleased that the law of 2007, which I insist that we support, allows other recognitions that are not possible in other autonomous communities. You know that in order to recognize a woman's situation of violence in other autonomous communities, it's either a judicial resolution or there's nothing to do about, for example, the possibility of getting economic aid for these women. Here are other situations, which are not only the strict legal recognition, which allow access to these aids and, therefore, give recognition and a principle and an exit path to all these women. But what's the point of expanding it even more? Of course, that's why I tell you it's important to have the conclusions of those committees as soon as possible. From the term feminicide, which is a debate we've had before in this House, if I'm not mistaken it was with Mrs Acuña, who has already proposed it too, I'm going to say the same thing again, first we're all going to agree, because it's true that there are many opinions that advocate introducing the term feminicide, with all that it means. It's actually a term, because all things have to have a name, but we're talking about a much broader situation, where the situation of the woman as the victim is vaster, and therefore the recognition is broadened; but you know that this is not peaceful, either. So let us listen, I think this is a good time, now that we are about – I hope – to finish the Commission's work, so that in this Commission all experts go and say, with the consequences you have, why not introduce – I insist – a word no more, not introduce a term, not introduce a series of situations, and therefore take a series of measures, see if the recognition of feminicide, as such and with all that it supposes, has happened or has not happened? I've already told you that my opinion is that, at least, if you argue and see the conclusions we come up with, because you know, like me, that it's not, at least, a peaceful discussion, and all those who argue about this matter are in favour of protecting women, the better, so that they don't suffer macho violence. I don't think it's coming out right now what makes reference to women's rights as to possible situations of international violence and treaties, and there's an open door for that recognition to be wider, but nothing happens to discuss whether this term should be considered; from the beginning there was no need to consider it. So let's get this into the Commission's work plan, and draw the conclusions as soon as possible. On the other hand, I'm telling you, there's little more to be done about what we've always been saying. Of course, Mrs. Adam, there are things to improve, of course coordination is always necessary, of course resources will never be enough; but I think that very important things have been done over these years, I believe that all the good of the laws that we all approve by consensus, by referring to the last two years, 2004 and 2007. And of course, if we keep moving without politicizing things, without arguing beyond what is to be discussed, which are a lot of things, but without thinking that no one is right about a problem that is everyone's, it's when we get results and when we can do things, and when we can finally say we can hope that we will end this problem that shames us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u196	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u197	Look, Vice President, it's not to blame the Equality Committee, which is not going to be a magic vein, that's impossible. You know exactly what the appearances there are there are, you can listen to them, you know you already know them, and you know perfectly well that, for example, social workers have already alerted in January 2015 – i.e. an exact year ago – to the secondary victimization of women victims of male violence. A year ago she went out in the papers and we talked about this here in this House, so you and the secretary-general of equality know perfectly well how the workers who are day-to-day with women who suffer from gender-based violence have warned that there is secondary victimization. So the question is, once you know that and without needing to have the Commission's opinion, do you have what mechanisms you put in place to avoid that secondary victimization? And here's the counsellor responsible for Social Services, and social workers themselves warned of this secondary victimization. Why? Because they come in and they have months of delay for that first date with the social workers, because they have problems with the housing plan, because they have trouble with the reports later, according to the Violence Act itself, they are able to find a job, because they have problems with the economic aid like the wage of freedom, which is closed for a few months a year, which could be operated twelve months. So, you know that, and you also know that in this committee there is a coordination problem when women file a complaint. The question is, what measures did you put in place during 2015 to improve this coordination once the complaint is initiated? Because you are responsible for justice, and although I understand the competence framework, you who are the Government of Greece, can also show that it is necessary to effectively extend justice services from judges to psychosocial teams. But you are responsible for the Immelga, and the director of the Immelga in that commission spoke of the shortage of workers and workers who had the Immelga. And then it came out collected in many reports about the need for the Immelga to speed up reports, so that in what is out of your competence you can act, and whatever is not strictly within your competence – as responsible for gender-based violence policies – if you can, surely, make a report, take a phone and show that it is necessary to redouble the workers of the gender-based violence courts in Galicia and also of mixed trials. Look, the complaint is indeed something that we have repeatedly put on the table, but the complaint has a fundamental problem, which is what we want to debate. It has not accompanied social mechanisms, of a social nature, that allow that woman to be accompanied psychologically and economically, if that was the case, in the matter of housing, and that she feels protected by the Forces and the Security Corps. And that is the problem that we reiterate, and that continues to happen, that is why this is a debate that we have begun with regard to changing the Statute of Victim of Fminicide and changing the laws, and including that social character, and understanding that it is a global problem, not only criminal, and that it will not be resolved by the scope of the complaint. But look, besides you're the vice president and you coordinate a government, in which, for example, in the area of education there is no such prevention, you're not included in all educational centers, like a cross-sectional subject, not even as much as talk. In health care, the other day they still told us how in many centers they didn't know about the protocols in gender-based violence the health professionals themselves. Not because of them, of course, but because of lack of training, lack of training for the staff of the judges, which you know is one of the most demanding issues. Today we are debating an initiative which referred to the United Nations report on the situation of equality in the Spanish State, and where there is a specific paragraph on violence against women,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u198	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u199	...which makes it very clear that there has been no progress, that we are at the very best of absolutely stagnant and stagnant cases, Mr. Vice President, and your department is an example. Neither a new application in front of this situation, nor a new line of work, no new resource, no new application, and no new coordination. In the best of stagnated and stagnated cases. At the worst, as I've heard in the end, making that allusion to which we can almost, we're going to see if there's consensus between us all. No, Vice President, you're in charge, you have that department, you have your department working in the fight against gender-based violence. And a humble recommendation, but at least when I talk about gender-based violence, I use inclusive language: not experts, even if it's a bit difficult for experts and experts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Closing time, Mr Vice-President, President-in-Office of the Council, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All right, Mrs. Adam, this is how you tell me not to speak of consensus on these issues, to get me to work. I'm working, I'm sorry I didn't have the consensus for you, it would be much easier! [[Applause]] But well, I see that I can't expect consensus, and we have to work on our part. Don't worry that we'll work, because it's a matter of concern to us, and very much. You tell me you haven't done anything at all, I suppose since you were responsible we haven't done anything, I suppose you'll tell us to repeat your programs. I, as I told you, we supported them; well, you said you didn't do anything at all. Since 2009, seven years have gone by, one of two, or so – I'm sorry to say to you in parliamentary terms – bad faith, or you're not very aware of what is being done, Mrs. Adam, one of the two things. Because if you tell me that in seven years you haven't moved forward thanks to everyone on this subject, even though now seven years later you tell us that we don't expect consensus on your part, that what the Government has to do is work, as if this was a subject that depends on political orientation and does not depend on what others propose. I didn't blame the Equality Committee, which I'm saying is that it's a useful tool, it's a tool that has to serve us. You said no, that what the Government has to do is do the things and the Commission that goes on their side and that ends when it's done. I understood that, at least, and I think you spoke quite clearly for everyone to understand, and I don't think I'm the only one who understood that, Mrs. Adam. I'm really sorry, I'm really sorry, because I still think that in consensus and non-politicization, and not to blame each other, it would be much of a solution to this problem. And, of course, and then it's having the data and really getting to know what's going on. Look, Mrs. Adam, you don't know, I have a list here – which could be much more extensive, but I have less than five minutes left in this interview – to tell you the things that have been done since 2009. I suppose you know something about the local network of entities against gender-based violence, which is supposed to be involved. So why didn't you do it if it's something as simple as involving municipalities, which are the first ones that often detect situations so they know what to do, how to guide women and put resources where they need at first? Why don't we talk about the local coordination tables, which is one more step towards this local network, so that we are all coordinated, the councils with the higher institutions? And why don't they take part in it? I thank many mayors and mayors of the BNG who – in return they are more aware than you – participate in all of this. Is it a trivial measure to be personified in cases of gender-based violence as a result of death? Why did you have to do this Galician joint? Why didn't you do it? That's very important, from the point of view of the symbolic which this implies by implication, and then because it's not the same as not being in a process of gender-based violence as a result of death. The comprehensive plan for training and gender-based violence is that it has to be a comprehensive plan, it has to be everyone involved. But, of course, if you tell me that training is of little value, that coordination is of little value and that consensus is of no use, then this comprehensive plan may not go anywhere. The Galego Observatory of Gender Violence created it for us, it would be necessary. You created a lot of observatories like this, but not an observatory, it must not be worth it. Economic aid. Look, look, you guys were also interrupting for a while, but it's just that after they took a lot more time to pay. They arrived late, Mrs. Adam, without budgetary problems – as if this government had them for years due to lack of resources, never for the aid, which has always been there –, they arrived late, just like the shift of duty, when women were cared for by gender violence, four, five and six months. Do you know what the average is now since the resolution? A month or a month or so. That's the difference, that you don't remember what they were doing, and I have to remind you here when you tell me that consensus is useless and that we get to rule. Well, we're also in charge of this, Mrs. Adam, I'm sorry you didn't do it. Tell me about the psychosocial teams, but don't you know that we've increased them in almost every city? You don't know, Mrs. Adam, and I can read you exactly the data: "Last year 2015 they were reinforced with two new teams in Coruña, two in Santiago, one in Lugo and one in Pontevedra. Psychosocial teams, precisely, because we knew they were insufficient, they weren't enough, and they're still unsealed, and we hope to continue doing so," but those we strengthened were us. In the trials of gender-based violence, all the judges – both specific and compatible – have daily extensions. The problem you know is that it's not so much about the staff as about the help that a judge claims, in particular about Vigo's. I'm saying it 'cause he went out in the press too. And there is a report – I told you in the first part of the intervention – where the High Court of Justice – that I at least think you sometimes accuse the judges and judges of lack of training, of lack of sensitivity, I think they act objectively on this issue – said that it was not necessary, at least at that moment, to strengthen. The Galician Union is doing reinforcements with prolongations of the day, and that's what the workers asked us to do. So, Mrs. Adam, if you insist again – and I really regret it – on saying that this is a question of government, that we are dedicated to ruling and that you don't have to agree with us, you're wrong. Even if that mistake pays the victims, the women, they don't have to! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u202	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Javier Dorado Soto and two other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Galician Union of the effective implementation process of the Vigo metropolitan area, as well as of the meetings held with the mayors of this body
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u203	To put the question, Mr. Dorado has the floor. Give a voice to Mr. Dorado's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u204	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Vice President. Four years ago, this House of Parliament in Galicia approved the Law of the Vigo metropolitan area, a law which had a citizen area – as is the case in the Vigo area – of more than 500,000 inhabitants in the same management framework that is extended throughout Europe, and which in this case was equal to other important areas of neighbouring European cities in Spain, but also other European countries. This law, passed in this House by an absolute majority, was a law that was not put in place by the simple blockade of the mayor of Vigo. A gentleman who wasn't interested in running the metropolitan area and who now, after the municipal elections, seems to be interested in him and now if he wants to collaborate. [[Murmurs.]] To this parliamentary group the Law of the Vigo metropolitan area, the launch of the Vigo metropolitan area, interested him before, now and then. He's always interested, because it's a law that's going to improve services for citizens and it's a law that's going to put in place new ways to coordinate and complement services between different municipalities, in this case in the Vigo area. [[Murmurs.]] It seems that in recent months there have been important contacts between the Galician Union and the mayors of the area. We would like to know, at what point is the establishment of this area right now? What conclusion does it draw from the contacts held with the municipalities over the past few months, and what conclusions does it also have from the meeting held last January 19 with all the mayors and what are the conclusions they have put in place of it? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u205	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Dorado, we've been talking in the metropolitan area since 1999. The Soutomajor Declaration began with a good idea, which came from the basis of a man-community that at that time worked, and therefore they thought that, for many reasons – and above all for what Vigo and the other thirteen municipalities that formed the metropolitan border – had to take one more step; that if it is now new, imagine what it was in 1999. Since then, many are the vicissitudes, many are the proposals. There is indeed a law passed in this Parliament after the introduction of more than one bill, depending on parliamentary periods. And, well, the truth and truth is that that law, being approved – I say because the fact that there is now a law makes things very easy – is not the same thing as reforming a law that has to make a new law. We have that law, I think it was a good idea and a good initiative to approve it, although it didn't start later. And it's also true that Vigo's mayor at the hearing he had with the president of the board last July proposed that, well, the same thing that he didn't agree to work at that time, he agreed to try again in July 2015. As usual, Junta agreed that there was the metropolitan area, he said yes and without any problems, and that we were willing to contemplate the changes that were necessary for that, so it would work, because what we were interested in, what we're interested in, and what we're going to keep interested in is that it works. From there you know which way you went. The Vigo Town Hall, by the hand of its mayor, presented two possible changes: one based on the Barcelona metropolitan area, with a more or less adaptation to what the Vigo area could be, and the other was an amendment to the law that already existed. And what he did to the Galician Union, what he announced he was going to do, was what he did and what we were doing, that he was taking the two texts, and that, by the way, they had two fundamental things; first, none of them spoke of an area larger than that of fourteen municipalities, neither of them – proposed by the mayor of Vigo – and they asked for greater representation for Vigo over those they considered to be, that is, they asked for twenty-four in the metropolitan assembly, which were those in the law that was passed. So what we told the mayor is that the Vigo Town Hall and that this representation, which didn't seem right to him and the one who aspired to the most, were already in the law. I'm saying that because it's significant because of the subject that I've then put forward the whole discussion about representativeness, that's what the mayor of Vigo was asking for from the beginning. From there we spoke to all the municipalities, all the municipalities made their contributions and arrived at the meeting of the past 19 – it seems to me that it was – with a series of themes that had to be set. And although some are unfixed, the main thing is transport, but you also have to talk about governance, you just have to complete funding, and you have to, above all, fix the transport issue. You know that the climate there was and the general agreement is that all this is superimposed, that of all that we can talk about and reach agreements. And what I'm waiting for now is that we go fast – there's a meeting next week – and that we're able to fulfill everyone's commitment and wish...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u208	...that there is the metropolitan area in this legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u209	Thank you, Vice President. Replica. Mr. Golden.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u210	Thank you, President. Well, given the proposal of the mayor of Vigo who so much complained about the representativeness of the city, which turns out to be the same as he proposes now, and since the two proposals that he makes maintain the initial proposal of the fourteen municipalities, and also considering that the law itself already includes the possibility of an extension of the territorial domain, we consider it appropriate that this law begin its processing and its implementation with the initial proposal of fourteen municipalities. Obviously, with the possibility that other municipalities may be added with the passage of time. As you said, it is true that the majority concern of citizens in the metropolitan area of Vigo focuses on the competence of transport. That doesn't mean that it's just the effort and the competitive transfer that the councils, the parliament and the Union should make, because there's a lot of competence and all must be done. But it's true that the issue of transport is focusing much of the concerns and much of the problems in its implementation. We believe it is essential that this transfer of competence also includes the urban transport of Vigo. Because, of course, without the urban transport of Vigo is missing one of the unique pieces of which can benefit all citizens moving through the different municipalities of the area. That's why we would like to pretend on this issue, to know that the member of this area, this law, is a very important member of what we can work on and what we can start up on in a few months this metropolitan area counts on the collaboration of all. And, of course, this group will collaborate. And ask you one last question, what is it, when it's going to be the next meeting with the mayors and what targets are there about it? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u211	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. Close. Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u212	Mr. Dorado, I said, next week there will be a monographic meeting on the subject of transport, because it is true that this was the most questionable meeting we held on the 19th. It is true that what I felt there is that municipal representatives have no doubt – and apart from what other sectoral representatives have already said that they were not politicians: people in the transport, trade and hospitality sector – transport has to be a medullar part of the metropolitan area. It's just that there's no idea that competition, where the most useful of a metropolitan area would be the competition that needs to be put out. Another thing is the terms, the scope and how this is defined; for that it will be the meeting, and the ones that need it, that we hope they're fast. That's why there's already the General Directorate of Mobility collecting data this week so we can get there with a plan from where we can get it. And I hope you follow that spirit of consensus on the basis that the Galician Union, the same as it is offering to the rest of the territory of Galicia, without any doubt, will offer it to Vigo and his metropolitan area. In addition, taking into account the special characteristics that the competition for transport would have been managed from a metropolitan area, which is not the same as managing it – we are aware – from the plans being made now. That's why we're going with all that data, that's what that meeting is for. And I hope that if we all agree that transport has to be the medullary line, that's more, what interests you specifically is almost exclusively. I'm sure it'll be more then, but some mayors and mayors there said what they were most interested in in the metropolitan area was transport. We are interested that there is the metropolitan area, so we will try to encourage that an agreement is closed, but in the end it will be the councils that have to close it; that it also closes the subject of governance, once Vigo is clear that he has to have a preposition preponderant, we never discuss it; that it is clear also the financing of the competences; and that among all of us we are able to feel proud that something which is not easy to do has been done among them all despite the fact that some do not seem to like it too much, or even now. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u213	Thank you, Vice President. Interpellation of G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar and two other Members, on the development in Galicia of the Law on the Promotion of Personal Autonomy and Care for Persons in Dependency
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u214	Mrs Gallego has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Social Policy Counsellor, as I'm sure you remember, in October last year – a few days after you took possession as Social Policy Adviser – I asked you about the situation of the dependency law in Galicia. And I think we both agree that the diagnosis was bad, the situation of the application of the dependency law in Galicia, of course, is not to assume, because we are from the autonomous communities with the highest waiting list, we are from the autonomous communities with the average cost per inhabitant below, we are from the autonomous communities that we have the largest dependents without paying attention. And all the ratios, with respect to dictates, with respect to applications and with respect to persons benefiting from the population, are below the state average. So we have a serious problem with the application of the dependency law in Galicia, which comes from two reasons, to our judgment. The first, that the Government of Greece does not exercise its powers properly and does not claim the Government of the State sufficient funding to carry out the effective compliance with the Dependency Act, surely fruit that both the People's Party in the Government of Galicia and the People's Party in the Government of Spain until the date do not believe in the full development of this law, and therefore they have halted its implementation even with drastic cuts that have ended, for example, with the contributions of the caregivers, or that have delayed the entry into the system of moderate dependents until June last year, as you know. On the one hand, I insist, in this lack of claim of what the powers are and what the rights of Galicia as a Autonomous Community are as regards the transfer of resources, we have assessed that the Central Government owes Galicia around EUR 111 million in compliance with the minimum levels agreed upon on its day, and that is not being claimed by the Government of Greece. And on the other hand, because of that political coincidence that I don't believe in the application of this law and that I'm going to tear it apart, because I don't dare politically to make the decision to derogate in your day. Well, these two political decisions, for example, gave fruit to that decree – which also spoke to you in that appearance – of reassessment of dependent people, those who had already granted a benefit, although many of them were not enjoying it, and what he introduced was greater cohesive to those users and that, in many cases, some of them had stopped being in the dependency system. The situation on December 30, 2015, and with Imserso's data, therefore official statistics, say that in Galicia we have 41,823 beneficiaries, far below – as I said – of the average state percentage. And persons entitled to benefits 65,495, i.e., a waiting list on December 31, 2015 of 23,672 people, and they only joined the system during 2015 2,819 people. We have the fourteenth position, we are awarded to social directors at the state level the fourteenth place in the development of the system, the third by the queue, by saying otherwise, and we have eleven, no less than eleven indicators under the state average in coverage of the care system, in waiting lists, in public residence squares, in home care, in homes and living centers, in residential squares, in diurnal and occupational centers, etc., etc., etc. This is the situation. In view of this, you made an announcement at that appearance, which President Feijóo had already done in the debate of the state of Autonomy, and which they reiterated in the debate of the budgets for 2016. And the announcement was that they were aware of the situation, that they were going to review some of the trees and that they would attend in 2016 10,000 new dependents. I denied him the biggest one, and I denied him today; I told him that it was impossible, mathematically, with the figures we already had on the table, the budgets for 2016, that you would attend 10,000 people in 2016, unless you accepted some of the amendments presented by the Socialist Group, among others, to increase the budgets devoted to compliance with the Dependency Law. I told him that it couldn't be if he kept the public spending per dependent person, that he was kept from the 8th year down here, and you said yes, that they were going to meet those 10,000 people. I warned you it was good not to make traps in this game. Well, since the 2016 budgets are already definitely approved. In fact, you did not accept a single amendment from the opposition groups, none of the Socialist Group related to the Dependency Act. We have found today – as I told you before – that last year only 2,819 people have joined the system and we have found today that numerically, and taking into account the level of cost of the system of dependency per person attended so far, it is impossible to meet the more, making a great deal of haste, of 3,500 new people in 2016. Except, Counselor, if you cheat. And this is what we just discovered. You have been carrying out since mid-December an instruction from the General Secretariat for Social Policy, dated December 16, an instruction from the entire staff of the Social Policy Council, in which everything is said to be changed. And that everything is changed means that when the law of dependence and all the legislation that develops afterwards this law said that the libraries were a non-principal resource, but rather accessory to others, and that what was to dominate above all was the public services, that is to say, to create squares in residential centres, in day centers, teleassisted, etc., etc., when it was said that the services had to dominate above the libraries, and you in the 2012 decree only restrict the libraries that were already granted before, or to persons under the age of age, or to persons over 90 – you will not let me lie, it is in the 2012 decree – now the Social Policy Council changes the criteria that are rejecting in the development of the law of the dependency from its implementation both in the state and in Galicia and choose to grant massive libracies, for what? To actually get 10,000 people off the waiting list. But what is the count of these bills, Mr Social Policy Counsellor, which are granted?, what is that count?, 50, 60 euros a month for pensions of 600 or 700 euros?, at a maximum of 90 euros a month? Are those the accounts that you're going to invest in the next few years so that those 23,672 people who are still on the waiting list today in Galicia are coming out of that waiting list? Of course, so next year you can remove from that waiting list 10,000 people, even more, because curiously since 2010 it has been gradually decreasing in budget the counties dedicated to books. And if in 2010 the counties dedicated to books were 96.9 million euros, in 2011 of 92, in 2012 of 98, in 2013 of 76, in 2014 of 73 and in 2015 of 57, curiously this year there is a small increase for books of 3.36 million euros giving around 336 euros per person, and for those 10,000 people you want to get out of the system. So, Counsellor, the trap is discovered, 10,000 people in the system at 50 or 60 euros a month, is this the application of the Dependency Law that you want to implement in Galicia?, is this your bet on public services, Counsellor? You remember that every time you create a public square to care for dependent people, you were also creating employment opportunities for the third sector, employment opportunities that were provided for in the spirit and philosophy of the Law of Personal Self-Government, that for that, among other things, was created, to guarantee rights to people with little personal autonomy or with difficulties of autonomy, but also to create an opportunity for employment, precisely in that sector. And you're what you're doing with this resolution is, firstly, radically changing the criteria and objectives of the Dependency Act, returning to a system of libraries, instead of continuing to create public squares...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u216	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u217	...and giving poor help, 50 or 60 euros a month, to people who need someone to pay attention to them and to guarantee them their rights. By the way, they're still solving books today that were requested in 2009, nothing less!, in 2009, this is compliance with the Dependency Law...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u218	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u219	...of the People's Party. I'm waiting for your answer, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u220	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the establishment of the Social Policy Council over three months ago, we have been working on the objective that the largest budgetary margin currently exists in the Council of Galicia is reflected in the attention of people who need our support the most, as is the case that motivates this inquiry on our dependents. In short, our aspiration is only to contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of those people. At the moment, with data already closed by the state, data which has made Mrs. Gallego express, almost two thirds, specifically 63% of the population recognized with dependence on Galicia, has the help she needs and can enjoy her right. But, of course, it's not about coming here to twist statistics, looking at where we're going a little under the average, where we're going a little above, about congratulating on the improvements to what existed in 2009, which is something I've also heard on many occasions. We're talking here about a third of the people who should have the right and who don't have it right now, don't enjoy it. The important thing, therefore, is not that we have in Galicia 63% of people who have a right to enjoy that right, but that the important thing is what we have ahead of us and what we have left to do. The objective is clear, and once it is clear that the objective has to have budgetary reflection, because otherwise we would be doing free social policy, which is to announce things that we will not then pay. Within the budgetary objective, Mrs Gallego, there are not only the budgets, but also the financial policy itself and the way to manage the budget, this year's and subsequent years. So I'm just saying I'm not going to go into the number drum – if you want us to do that too – but the big numbers are already known. We care about 42,000 people, 63%. The target marked at parliamentary headquarters is 50,000, so the ratio of attention this year to 75% is increased. And, therefore, not to be in the queue of communities, but to be above all communities in care of dependence. That's the Government's goal, and that's the objective of the Social Policy Council. Improvements are fundamental from the point of view of the functioning of the system: a new computer tool that allows the integral management of the whole dependency process; a simplified process map for all professionals working in the recognition and assessment of the right to specific training actions for our workers, for caregivers and for professionals; a specific regulation of the most advanced people in the state; the extranet module for municipalities, which allows to share information on the state of administrative processing of files, of requests for assessment and recognition; the resource allocation program; the telephone number, 012; the new portfolio of care services to people in the situation of the dependency; the strategy for the prevention and early detention of the dependency in Galicia along with the 2020 horizon; and the improvement of coordination with the councils and improved coordination with the sector entities, to together make this target parliamentaryly fixed to reach all families. So, answering the questions that are clearly posed in the interpellation, we want, as we said, to increase the ratio of attention to 75%, to exceed the average of the state in Galicia. We want to overcome most autonomous communities in terms of dependence. As for whether we're going to claim the Central Government more investments, the question is quite simple: yes. We'll never stop doing that, we'll do it with the Central Government of the People's Party and we'll do it with any kind of Government. Look, the purpose of the law was 50% State funding and 50% community funding. I'm also going to tell you something else, because I haven't changed the behavior of governments and governments. I'll give you the data. I'll give you the data. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I've already said that the Socialist Party's Government didn't meet, the central, nor the central People's Party's Government. But I'm going to give you the data so you won't magnify it. See, in 2011, with much less resources spent by the Central Government and by the autonomous communities, there was 25-75. You, you see, don't twist this data to me, which I use very few. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] 2015, 22% the Government of the State, 78% the Government of the Autonomous Community. So he didn't do the former Government or do this government. Therefore, all the provision from Galicia to require the financial compliance of the State to pay attention to the dependency. [[Applause]] But said this, there's something much more important. Look, with these things you can do two things, to be demanding, to be talking, to do great words in Madrid, but here we also have a responsibility, and the responsibility we have here, besides claiming, is to allocate more resources, which is what we are doing. Therefore, if the percentage of funding of the Autonomous Community of the dependency in 2011 was 75%, it is now 78%. And if that funding isn't enough, what we have to do is shield the funding of dependence for the future, which is what we're doing. On the question of revaluations of the profession. Look, just tell him they don't exist. There are no reassessments in this community. I think this question has been explained on other occasions. And with regard to the waiting lists, how are we going to reduce the waiting lists? You haven't discovered the powder, really, or discovered any traps, but when using data you need to use global data. Look, we want to move from a 41% waiting list to a 25% waiting list this year. And we're going to use all the budgetary and extra-budgetary mechanisms needed to do so, because our goal is to shield people's rights, which is what's behind the statistics and behind the files. How are we gonna do that? Through the instruments that have the law. With more squares in day-care centres, with more residential squares, with more hours of home-help service, with more bookcases linked to services and more libraries of family care: through all the instruments that we have within our reach. Look, with regard to the subject of books, which was that great discovery of what he talks to us. He's not the general. When we talk about 10,000 new dependents, we're not talking about 10,000 books. I'm telling you, the distribution of care will be in day-to-day centers, in residences, home-help, in libraries linked to services and in family-care libraries.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u222	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u223	And look, how are we going to use the budget? With all we can this year, because it's a very important commitment to this council and committing, too, future exercises. Or won't it be good to shield rights from future exercises? I know that sometimes you demand it, in this case we're going to listen to you, we're going to shield future joint exercises in Galicia to ensure more attention to people and families this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u224	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u225	Counsellor, a document, I want a document in which the Galician board has claimed to the Central Government the 111 million euros that owe us so far; it will not be that now, as you are thinking they won't be in the Government, they are in the middle of the claim fever. They always claim, but I want a document from when Mr. Rajoy was president of the Government, not in function, claiming to you the 111 million euros he owes us. [[Applause]] By the way, I also want a document, because we have been asking for it since the beginning of the legislation, which percentages are going to be granted for care around the family environment, libraries linked to services or where the percentage is going to be granted services, services and non-economic benefits. Because words take the wind, and you say a lot of things here and then when we go to numbers... I don't come to twist the numbers, I give you the numbers that are published in the official statistics of the Imserso, and they're the only ones I can have to evaluate which are your policies, because you come and tell us to shield people's rights, to get out of the waiting list, to get to 75%, that you're going to allocate more resources. The speeches are very good, but then we're going to reality, and the reality tells me the statistics, the reality is that we have these 23,672 people still on a waiting list in Galicia, and the reality is that it tells me that with the scarce increase in budget for 2016 you're not going to grant quality benefits as we want, but you're going to use the trap; yes, Counsellor, the cheating. Because look, the circular of his counseling is changing the criteria for awarding books, which until now are only granted exceptionally for children and for people over 90. And what you do with this setting of new criteria to determine the exceptionality of the release of care in the family environment is to interpret an order, from the Government of Mr Feijóo of January 2012, in which it was said that to grant a bill, besides giving them only to minors under 25 or over 90, if you had to prove, believe in the file, the impossibility of recognition of a service due to the lack of public or private resources accredited. This was the only way to access a libretto until now. And now what you're doing is you're opening up the spit and forgetting whether or not these resources exist, because they look, there's empty squares, you know? You know what's going on? That people can't mate, because you've increased the trees. How do you tell me there were no reassessments on your own? Listen, but if there were people who had rights recognized by the Dependency Law and who suddenly stopped having them. But if there are people, and I have here Members and Members sitting in this House who have a family, we can believe it with documents; if there are people who have recognised a 300-euro benefit and now have a 50-euro allowance with those reassessments made by the former Labour and Wellness Adviser. How do you tell me there were no reassessments? And how can you come here to assume when it turns out that you are massively notifying people who have been waiting since the year 2009 for having the right, actually, borrowed and not only the recognized right, without having borrowed it, and are giving letters like this that I have here that they recognize that they owe a person since the year 2011 3,400 euros and that they are now going to pay them in deferred until the year 2023, the reason of 430 euros a year? Is this the way to comply with the Dependency Act? And the answer of the board when they ask him is: Well, those who die we pay him all together. Listen, Mr. Social Policy Advisor, do you think that this is how the rights of dependent people are being implemented? Do you really think this is the policy to be done? Look, you know what they're doing with this situation? They're not only giving ridiculous benefits, they're lending them differently, which is something that the People's Party likes so much. Then they say they don't want to make it easy to pay the debt, but to pay the people you owe them, they're going to make it more flexible. What you're doing is you're returning to women, which in the end we're the ones who always bear the burden of being caregivers, at home, to the role of caregivers. Yes, without assuming the contributions to social security that Mr. Rajoy has suppressed, and therefore precarious work. That's what you're doing. Instead of creating public squares and public services and thus contributing to the recovery of employment in our autonomous community, what you are doing is an attack on the Dependency Act in every rule. You never dared to overthrow her, but you never wanted her to be implanted as she was designed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u226	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u227	And look, don't talk to me about central government funding, eh! Because the average funding for that government Zapatero was 40% and the average funding for Mr. Rajoy's government is 19%, and I have the figures for contrasting them whenever you want, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u228	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Gallego, whenever you want to contrast those figures, I have no problem. Those figures will believe that they were not enough to meet the central government at that time, nor are they enough now. We'll see if they're enough or not in the future. Look, take me out here with a specific file, tell me about a specific file. You can talk to me here about the file you want, without names, of course. But I'm going to tell you about that specific file. This is like when you remove the query numeracy, in this case you have failed. No, I'll tell you. Look, this is a person who's assigned, the person he's talking about, a book. Well, you'll know who it is because it brings me here an economic amount, it teaches me a file here, but I know all the case studies, all the typologies, I can explain to you who it is, not the person, but the typology that it is. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This person has been granted a right since 2009 with an allocation of resources according to the regulatory functioning that existed at that time through a librency. This is the service to which you are entitled according to existing regulations and which you have recognized for several years, which accumulates a debt, as a result, precisely, of the waiting list, of several years of waiting, of 3,400 euros. What's this government doing a few months ago? Take all the specifications that exist and start working to clear the waiting list. And that's why there are situations of many people who have been waiting for years, unfortunately. I mean, I'm not going to go into statistics, I'm not going to rule one another, I'm not going to rule another. They've been waiting for years, they don't know anything about the administration, and suddenly the Administration recognizes them years later a right of delay, indeed, of delay. That means that delays aren't able, because if they don't come out, as you say, to pay them in a year, and what we're doing is to pay them in several years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I also agree with you that it doesn't seem reasonable to divide so many years, but I'm also telling you the following, it's best to divide several years that these people die without being cared for and die without receiving a single euro that they have the right to. So what we're doing is answering a lot of people after many years, acknowledging their right and paying them. And we're also working, I'm telling you, to reduce the number of years we're going to pay the debt with all those dependents. But you'll allow me not to announce, like others, what can't be fulfilled. For now that person you're talking about, that family has something more than before, has a recognized right, has an economic amount as a result of the allocation of the resource that was made on their day and has some resources that you know will charge. Actually fractionated, yes, it's true, but it's got us and before it didn't have them. With regard to the different services. Look, I just went up to the gallery the statistics you use, and here it's detailed according to the service you receive and by autonomous communities. Is that true? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, I tell you, you can see – that's the commitment – that's the year 2016. And you'll see that there'll be more family libraries, that there'll be more utilities linked to services, that there'll be more residential care, that there'll be more percentages in day centers and that there'll be more percentages in home help. So I'm telling you that we're working intensively in all the areas of resources that are currently being assigned, that's our goal; giving many people who have been waiting for a right to which they have rights, economic funds, shielding future budget. If we should be congratulated for doing so, because often they tell us that the deficit, the deficit, the deficit; what we're doing is compromise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u231	... budgets this year and years after so that people can enjoy from the very first of a law-based right that we don't want to derogate, but we want to comply, which is the law of dependency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u232	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until sixteen and thirty minutes. [[The session is suspended at 3:20 p.m. and resumed at 4:30 p.m.]] Question by Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the concrete measures taken by the Government of Greece to alleviate the effects caused by climate change in December 2015 and January 2016 on services and productive sectors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u233	To put the question, Mrs. Soneira Tajes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u234	Thank you, President. For the purposes of which I am also present in the Minutes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u235	Sorry, sorry, that doesn't work well. Give her the services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u236	I don't know if this one's going better. This one's better. We're going to have to look at the condition of the equipment, Mr President, because it seems that some trouble is giving us. He also said that for me to record, I wanted to congratulate him and wish him success by his appointment. You know, besides, I'm especially glad. Let's see, I'm surprised because I suspect you're going to be the environmental advisor to whom you come to answer this question. And that only confirms what we have seen from mid-December to mid-January with a whole sequence of adverse climate events that have caused damage, both to the productive sectors and to social equipment in various municipalities, which shows that the emergency advisor continues to be absent, just as he has been in all episodes, and as he has been today. Because, in any case, if he had other obligations, I would also be willing to ask him in the morning, because this is a case of the environment, I recognize it, and I also accept that the Government responds through any of its members. But it gives the feeling that Mr. Wheel of these things doesn't want to know anything, because for the German Government it's like they didn't exist. We know through the media that in Caldas, in Cuntis, in Neda, in Ponteceso, elsewhere, there were severe floods, and the German Government, Counsellor, of hearing. Because the only thing we heard was, in a press round after a board of assembly, Mr. President made a report on the incidences he had. That's what we could do by just calling 112, or entering your website. But the German Government got to see how things were going, and then he just made a narrative of the incidences that happened and nothing else. In that Board of Trustees, which we know, no action was taken to alleviate the effects. It is true that Mr. Núñez went out in the media saying, "Núñez Feijóo urges the Board to approve a rapid temporary aid plan." And on another occasion he said, "The PP calls on the Permanent Deputy to explain to the Board why the Union left those affected in God's hands."Ah, but this was in 2009!, this was in 2009, when there were floods, when the Government was there, when the emergency counsellor was near the floods, and there they were called for measures, right now it seems not. We are considering this initiative, Counselor, with great clarity. From mid-December to mid-January, sailors and mariners could not leave. That's income. And there are some sectors still very affected, like I'm looking for them. In rural areas, floods, crop damage, winter forage seeds, which directly affects, as the branch advisor says, the profitability of farms. And then there's the local equipment and infrastructure that's severely damaged by the floods. And in view of this, Counsellor, our question is: what measures will it take to implement, because we know so far that it has taken none, to seek solutions and support for the productive sectors and damaged equipment? Nothing else at the moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u238	Good afternoon. Your Honor, as you well know, responds to the Government, and therefore from the Government the Environmental Council comes to answer your question, which in particular, in addition, is raised about what concrete measures the Government has taken – hence they are already taken – to address the pernicious effects of climate science on – you spoke about – services and affected productive sectors; ultimately, about society as a whole. And, of course, the measures we have taken are measures in the past, those measures that correspond to this Environment Council, all that comes to the prevention of the consequences of possible floods that may arise due to adverse climate effects. You speak in particular and mention a particular situation that took place in 2009. We could also go back to 2006. Indeed, in 2009 there was a special climate situation with a cyclone, which was Klaus, where there were obviously consequences for this cyclone that were much more adverse than what happened these days. In these days, which was still recently, and over the first 12 days of the year, it rained more than usual in January; in fact, even in those 12 days it surpassed throughout Galicia the usual rain this January. Even, speaking of another significant fact, especially given that 2015 was a particularly dry year compared to the history we have of the past years, it is true that in those days it fell about 25% of all that rained in 2015 and that there was indeed a series of overflows in concentrated areas of our community, as was the southwest of the province of Coruña, the interior of Pontevedra, the area of Manzaneda, and even the Lower Limitia, which is where there were the biggest incidents vested directly with the increase in the volume of the water, with the overflow that occurred in the rivers and in the floods. Obviously, since the Council of which I am now responsible, through the department of Waters of Galicia, we have activated the flood protocol, especially in order to be able to alert all the competent administrations of the magnitude that could have the climatic circumstances over the rivers in the municipalities where they pass, and even other departments that could have something to do with. The existence of cheers in affected areas, such as the area of the Umia River and the Verdugo River, because they avoided major ills, but of course, lordship, what we had to do and what we continue to do is bet on prevention, that is, by cleaning the banks and rivers of our rivers. During 2015, we invested €1.1 million precisely in this cleanup, in the municipalities you were talking about, such as Caldas, where we actually tried to prevent situations. But beyond predicting, this year, in 2016, we will again increase the budget, and beyond predicting we also repair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u239	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u240	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor, you know from there, it's hard for me to distinguish this, then I'll leave it to see it. This is theoretically the channel of a river from a town where older people had to be pulled out in unspoiled boots, because for fifteen days they continuously caused flooding that entered the houses and caused damage. I'll give it to you later. The grave is not that, because you're sure you're not guilty, no government, of weather. What is serious is that I have here a letter from this council, which is dated August 17, 2005, addressed to something that is of its competence, which is Galician Waters, which accompanies a report from the municipal technical services and which literally says – and it is from the area from which I will then leave the photographs – that, "from not cleaning these channels" – and there comes the one to predict –, "it will produce at least severe floods in the housing and neighboring properties, even with affection for the autonomic road and the bridge itself, which develops in a land that is adjacent to the rubber saying." And he's still giving a series of circumstances that could happen if he didn't clean up. And circumstances have been given, people have seen their possessions ruined, and in some cases not all people have their possessions secured. Because, even if you have a home – and you know it like me, or you have an obligation to know it – there are many older people who have their only income are pretty thin pensions in Galicia, and every month there are a lot of receipts like to add two or three more to cover certain continences. This council asked Galician Waters to clear the caucet, Caldas's asked him to take action, Cuntis's asked him the same, Ponticeso's still waiting for a pump of achique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u241	Finish it, Mrs. Soneira. Counselor, that's not preventable. For more than six months now, the waters of Galicia have received a written warning of the consequences, Mr. President, and you have done nothing through the waters of Galicia. Therefore, Counselor, you are responsible for the damage you have caused.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Replica, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u243	Probably, Your Honor, for you I will be responsible for all the climate effects that arise from here forward, I am absolutely convinced, but what if I can tell you is that it is not true that we did nothing, since there were 127 actions that with this million euros in 2015 we could do precisely to prevent in many of these municipalities of what you were talking about, without really concretely concrete writing about that particular demand you made... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] All right, because I have to confirm that Neda, in fact, also had a preventive action on the list, but it would waste time to explain what I want to explain now about the commitment of the Government of Galicia, which is actually to increase not only the areas to work in prevention – and that is what we have to do with 1,800,000 euros, that is, with an increase of almost 60% about what we had last year – to act on the channels and, of course, to act on the banks. But beyond that action, Mrs Soneira, you have to know that we have already approved the first flood risk zone plan in our community, in which, in fact, we have identified 207 areas, classified in addition to different flood risk severity, where after doing that classification, in which we also count, of course, with the municipalities, now we also have to make a specific plan for each of them with different actions where all administrations and even society as a whole will be contemplated in order to take measures not only preventive, but also palliative every time they occur. But aside from this, Your Honor, please don't use older people to try to play with something that really isn't fair. They don't use the older people to say they're leaving their homes, because you know very well that the state, through the Compensation and Insurance Consortium, will cover all those damage suffered by individuals and even businesses, where there's a insurance policy, even if it's not classified as a catastrophic zone. And, therefore, beyond that image – which I obviously share with you, which is regrettable, and as you will understand I still have no power over the sky – for obviously using the older people I think is not the right one. For our part we will continue to work, not only on prevention, I insist, to make those clean-ups that are necessary and that this year we increase to give cover to the banks of the rivers, and even to palliate and repair, where the forest guards along with the city council's requests bring us their requests, the damages that have been the cause of these floods these years. And, of course, working together with the State also through this flood risk zone plan so that, through the Compensation and Insurance Consortium, we can approach all those individuals and companies who suffer damage. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u244	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the judgment concerning the tax regime of wind farms
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u245	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u246	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. Look, Galicia was a power, the first in the Spanish state, producing wind energy. At this moment we are the fourth, behind Castela-A Mancha, Castela-León and Andalusia. We have been losing jobs in wind production, and we are actually now large energy producers, as we discussed yesterday, but we could still be more. Interestingly, Feijóo announced that Galicia's major industrial plan would be the wind competition, so announced, with 14,000 million euros mobilized and 6,000 jobs. What do we have right now? That in the last five years only 15 parks were authorized, approved in 2010, which is 374 megawatts, only 16% of what was understood to be that wind competition. So where is the big industrial plan for Galicia that assumed the wind competition? Today he speaks of a newspaper of the total and absolute paralysis that exists in the wind sector, fruit, of course in the case of Galicia, of Feijóo's political revenge, when for an ongoing wind competition to change it, also of all the regulations that the People's Party has brought forward with the new Law of the electric sector, also of the legal insecurity that they have lived and that they have lived in Galicia that sector and of course also – which is the question we are talking about – about fiscal policy, which we can consider was not the most appropriate fiscal policy. However, as you accumulate judgments, they are stacked up, they have a number of issues related to the wind sector, the question is clear about the last sentence that comes together with the previous eleven: what will the Government do? It's a simple proof of Feijóo's failure in the field of wind. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u247	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. The councilman of Fairy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u248	Thank you very much, Madam President. The first thing to point out is that in your question you no longer identify the recent judgment you referred to. What I can tell you is that the first judgment of this court in connection with this matter is already on January 22, 2014; that, by the way, it is appealed to the Supreme Court by the Council. But we cannot cover this subject without taking into account the origin of its problem, which I must clarify to you that it is not focused, in particular, on the wind sector, but on taxation of concessions or administrative authorizations. Administrative concessions and equivalent acts are a taxable fact of the transmission tax where, as a result of the granting of public service management powers or the allocation of private use or special use of goods of domain or public use, property displacement in favour of individuals arises. In addition, this is a very important taxable fact from the point of view of collection; therefore, all concessions and authorizations that assume the taxable act of taxation are subject to verification. But we must not forget that we are facing a very heterogeneous object because of the different activities that are subject to concession or authorization by different public administrations. This heterogeneity has caused diversity of views in the different courts focused on determining what is the taxable basis of these acts. But there was no discussion in any way if they were tax objects. The Central Economic Court, in a resolution since 2011, changed its initial approach and pointed out that the provision of services – for example, a concession on the collection of waste – did not meet the requirements to be subject to transmission tax. From that moment on, both the Regional Administrative Court of Galicia and our High Court have also changed their view. In view of this disparity of criteria, the Board has promoted timely remedies before the Supreme Court. The high court ruled several cars in November 2013 in favor of taxation of this type of administrative concessions confirming the criterion maintained by our administration. This, at the same time, led to a change of opinion in the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia. The tax administration's verification proceedings also included the authorizations of the wind farms to which you have just referred. His taxation in principle was a peaceful matter and clarified by the Supreme Court with the former Law of the electric sector. However, the underlying problem is currently limited to determining whether or not a public service is still a public service with the new Law of the wind sector. Ladies and gentlemen, up to five resolutions other than the Central Economic Court have endorsed the action of the Union. However, in February 2013, that court amended its criterion of application of the tax, and Junta decided, by responsibility, to go to the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia. This body came to the conclusion that the authorizations were not taxed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u249	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u250	If, in his sentence, he expressly acknowledges – and thus makes it manifest – doubts of right that exist about the situation of a litigious character. We therefore decided to go to the Supreme Court at Galicia to clarify definitively the application of this tax to bring the maximum legal certainty to the wind sector.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u252	We therefore await the judgment in the coming months and, as it could not be otherwise, we will be at his disposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u253	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Adam has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u254	Yes, I understand your answer then that the question is to wait, as the whole wind sector is waiting for, that one can actually get out of this paron to which the People's Party has led to this sector of renewable energy. Indeed, these seven years of Mr. Feijóo's government will go through many disasters, but in the wind sector it is clear: the loss of competitiveness, being in the fourth position, not having executed all the megawatts that were promised and that so many times went out in the press, I think, with that holder of the major industrial plan for Galicia, 14,000 million euros mobilized – said the Industry Adviser at that time – and 6,000 jobs. And today we're talking here that the exact amount of what is being handled, of what has been mobilized for seven years, is 400 million euros. I mean, a total and absolute paralysis of the sector. And that must be added to the legal insecurity, the judgments – as they say – that they fall in love. And most importantly, you have changed a concept of public participation in the sector by a concept of wind cannon. Theirs can now be evaluated, because we can already evaluate it, and what they have achieved was to paralyze the sector and accumulate judgments. From the Galego Nationalist Block we value that the policy in Mr Feijóo's wind field can qualify it as absolute suspension. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Replica from the Government. Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u256	Your Honor, it is up to the Tax Administration, as it cannot be otherwise, to defend the interests of Galicia, always fulfilling the constitutional and statutory mandate on this matter. And that's why we understand that it must be submitted to the Supreme Court for jurisprudence to be established, which, as you well know, is the only court that can do so. In addition, we must take into account the shift from the rest of the related resources, as previously anticipated, to the concessions brought by the Board, which also originated in the discrepancy between the Central Economic Court and the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, and which caused that change of approach to what I had previously referred to. But let me point it out and think again at a point that was advancing in my first intervention, which is that what we're doing is an exercise of responsibility in tax matters. Since inactivity on our part, if the Supreme Court was then detached by the taxation of wind farms, it would be a collection loss rather than a small one, not a child, for finding these taxable facts prescribed. I suppose you, as well as the rest of the members of this House, will agree that we develop the tax actions that enable us to maintain public services to citizenship. That's why the Board continues to raise resources in those cases where it's possible. As long as we're waiting for that Supreme Court ruling, there's no doubt about it, we'll always take care of what's available, as I said before. But I must also tell you that on a prudent basis, as long as this juridical scenario is not clarified to what it was trying to answer, we're not planning these incomes that come from this kind of act. I believe it is an act of prudence, of normality, because checks related to these authorizations of wind farms, apart from being very complex and quantitatively very important, but they will allow at the time – or not, depending on that judgment – to be able to meet a little better, as we are doing, to properly finance public services. We must not forget that since the first of January 2014 the Union – as you referred in general to the wind sector – has maintained a deduction on the rate of 92,5 % of this tax in the first concession or authorization. And it aims precisely to promote the development of renewable energies, which has already been approved by us in Law 11 in 2013, of general assumptions – as I said – for 2014. So – and I conclude – our performance, I think it is summed up, firstly, in the defence of Galicia's general interests – it cannot be otherwise – and in the responsibility for making decisions – as I said to you – for his involvement so important that he may have income. But with the utmost prudence, too, and always respecting what justice can say, we will therefore be to what is resolved. We estimate that within a few months we should know to act accordingly and always in defence of general interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u257	Thank you, Counselor. Next question. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and four other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the position of the German Government in relation to the employment regulation file of Tragsa companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u258	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Maria Remedios Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u259	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The question, registered, I think on January 18th, was what the German Government was planning to do about the ERE of Tragsa. It's true that Tragsa makes a not very well-justified ERE, justifying losses between 2013 and 2019; an ERE that affects 1,336 people, 117 people in Galicia. And after important mobilizations by the unions, this ERE has been paralysed for days. This ERE costs Tragsa 12 million euros, the triple of the benefits for those who closed the 2015 exercise by firing – who has already fired – to 555 workers; therefore 43% of the layoffs. These workers are curiously fixed workers over 50 years old, many of them with a job about to retire. In Galicia that ERE affected 117 workers; 77 were fired, only 40 were able to save their jobs. Curiously that ERE, although authorized, was not obliged to execute it, and secondly, lay off on December 31st, on the end of the year, and on the first days of January. In fact, many workers don't know it's the dismissal they get in the payroll until human resources inform them when they get to work. The question is whether the German Government will work on the readmission of these workers who have already been fired and to reconvene the negotiating table for a Tragsa viability plan that the unions have proposed. Because the reality is that 77 employees in Galicia go to the street. The reality is that Tragsa is a 100 percent public company, Tragsa has a number of orders that he will have to fulfill, many of them from the State Government, other Europeans. And he justifies those layoffs, but he's, however, hiring people. So what happens here is an application of labour reform, an application of the policies of the People's Party, of making a stable job into four precarious jobs. That's why tomorrow I announced the minister in office of the Government of Spain who would be the most wonderful results of the EPA in the history of the world. I don't know if they're still campaigning, if they're going to campaign for the next autonomics, if they're going to campaign in Spain or what's going on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u261	But the German Government, for a 100 percent public company...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u262	Finish it, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u263	...a company that has orders of service, what are the actions that will be carried out for these workers to be readmitted?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u265	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u266	Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quintas, look, as much as you're trying to mess up, the position of the German Government in this matter is from the very first clear moment. First of all, logically the greatest concern for Tragsa and Tragsatec workers, and the total predisposition that this government had to act together. You ask me this afternoon what the Government will do, as if the Government has been stopped for all these weeks. You know it's not true, and from the very first moment that we've been aware of the decision of this ERE we've promoted meetings, we've established contacts with the company's management in Galicia, with the management of the company in Madrid and with the union representation. And indeed, Your Honor, this government worked to paralyze the ERE, as happened, as you reflected, last Thursday. So it's not just that we're going to work, because if we keep working, we've been doing it all these weeks. In fact, we will continue to work so that the parties can sit down, dialogue, so that the situation of those affected in Galicia can be reviewed and we can work on alternative solutions to the reported redundancies. Of course, that's our roadmap, keep working so that, in fact, we can do everything in our hands to maintain economic activity and keep these jobs in Galicia. And more so, because we agree that we are talking about a public company in which the Galician Union actually has important contracts, and for that very reason, Your Honor, this government has already urged both the president of Sepi and the president of Tragsa to reconsider admission and put any solution to the table for the dismissed workers; above all, Your Honor, because the causes that justified the ERE can now be very different. And also, Your Honor, we're reviewing all the contracts and we're reviewing all the work forecasts with the group to maintain the quality of services and ensure the conditions of employment. We'll review all the performances, all the contracts and all the work forecasts that Tragsa and Tragsatec have. And all that, Your Honor, let's do it, logically, with regard to the legality and autonomy of trade unions and businesses, because we must remember that the ERE applied by Tragsa is adjusted by law, according to the judgement of the Supreme Court itself. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat to you that there is no doubt in this House nor, nor, more importantly, in the workers of Tragsa and Tragsatec, that we will continue to assume our commitments with realistic action and also respecting the rules so that, in fact, we can find a solution to the future for the fired workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u268	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u269	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Counselor, neither this group nor I lie down. I don't like the word, besides, hey! I don't know if the German Government is messed up, if the People's Party is messed up, the Members of the People's Party. I give data that I got from the unions, we're giving data. And this question was taken to the committee and the representative of his own group all he could say was that the Supreme Court authorized the ERE. To authorize ERE does not mean that it is justified to do so, simply that the company can do so. If on December 31st, the end of the year, the company sent the sack cards, on January 19th, I don't know what happened. On the other hand, if the Government acts, congratulations on its discretion, because we don't know anyone, neither the workers nor the unions, and of course not this political group. But if you act with discretion, I congratulate you. Look, you know what's going on? In Tragsa, Tragsatec, a public company, it turns out that 11,497 workers, 4,330 are temporary. These, without discretion, are over there on the table. That's how you work for a job that's medium enough to be converted to four unworthy, poor jobs. Meanwhile, the managers of this company have a hundred percent public pay higher than the President of the Government. They have a bond of millions of euros, and they have 500 executives. There was a 2015-2019 plan, and it was a feasibility plan. The company refused to sit down and keep working on that viability plan. So that's the reality. In the meantime, 80 workers in the autonomous community of Galicia are on the street. While – as I say – these management orders are not met....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u270	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u271	...and workers will be hired who have been fired from the back door with worse wages.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. Replica from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see Mrs. Quintas doesn't like the semantics of this government. I'm going to change semantics, now I'm going to talk to you about effectiveness. Indeed, effectiveness often consists in working, defending the interests of workers and with concrete results, as it was actually possible to stop the ERE of Tragsa and Tragsatec. In any case, Your Honor, our position I've already told you is very clear. First of all, this government does not share, under any concept, nor the ways in which Tragsa's leadership has been used in communicating dismissals, nor does it share either, Mrs. Quintas, the moment it was made. Of course we did not share the shapes that were used. Nor do we share the situation that Tragsa created in Galicia with the ERE application, nor do we share it. And that's why we're acting, and we're acting from the very first moment. And, of course, we'll be working at the moment, once we've been able to paralyze the ERE, so that we can resume that dialogue and look at the alternatives to keep the job of the staff affected. In your tone of voice I see a certain rhetoric, but when you talk about Tragsa being a public company, actually, it's a public company. And you know that Galician Union also participates in Tragsa. We have an action that accounts for 0.003% of the capital, 0.003%. And you also know that the Galician Union is not in the Tragsa councils nor is it in the Tragsatec councils. And when you talk to me about wages, because soon if you fill your voice to talk about wages, I have to remind you, Your Honor, that the agreement you are applying Tragsa was adopted in 2011, and that was the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Madrid that approved the agreement that is being applied in Tragsa. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u274	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u275	I'm surprised, I'm so surprised that now you're surprised at the wages in Tragsa when you were, Your Honor, who approved the agreement that is being applied.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u276	Quiet, quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u277	This government – although they do not like it – has set an example of how public resources are actually managed. We do not have to receive lessons from the Socialist Party. In any case, Your Honor, I don't think we have to confuse the workers either. This government will continue to work and defend Tragsa's workers. We're perfectly sensitive to their situation. We'll continue, as I've already told you, working, and keep in touch with the company committee and management. And we will demand the Tragsa, Your Honor, that, in fact, respect labour policy, which gives a realistic solution to the situation that workers have.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u278	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u279	And just as we don't accept Tragsa's ways of acting, ladies and gentlemen, we won't take any step back in defending jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u280	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Da Carmen Iglesias Sueiro, G.P. Mixto, on the complaint lodged by the Prosecutor's Office against Sergas regarding the death of three patients with hepatitis C
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u281	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u282	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. There is a complaint, in March 2015, brought by the collective "White Batas Galicia", which is a collective of medical professionals, against the Councilloría de Sanidad da Junta de Galicia, after finding delitious clues regarding the death of three patients with hepatitis C as a result of the delay or denial of treatment with Sovaldi, the last-generation treatment. The treatment was prescribed by the specialist doctor, by the hepatologist, but, after being prescribed by a specialist, it had to go through a good visa and it had to be approved by the pharmacy commission in the Greek hospitals and by the Autonomic and Central Pharmacy and Therapy Commission. This advisory body consists of three pharmacists and seven doctors appointed by Sergas Health Care Director General. Among its functions is not that of annulment or confirmation of treatment if it is not compassionate, so its interference in this matter is not understood, its need. After months of investigation after the complaint filed – I repeat – in March 2015, the Prosecutor's Office saw signs of crime in the restrictions imposed by the Government of the Union, and filed a complaint in the Compostela courts. And, of course, it's suspicious, probably also for the Prosecutor's Office, all this procedure that seems nothing more than a Galician Union strategy to delay or cancel the therapies indicated by hepatologists. It is even prevented from delaying treatment as a result of missing files. Surely these three deaths are the tip of the iceberg of a lot more deaths. The last one has just happened in a prison, in a prison, also for lack of treatment. That is why I would like to ask you, Counsellor, the following question: How does the Council of Galicia value the complaint filed by the Prosecutor's Office? And do you think, in the face of this complaint, and without waiting for the judgment, to assume political responsibilities in the face of the gravity of the facts, with the result – I repeat – of the death of people? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u283	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. He's answered by the Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u284	Good afternoon. Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your appointment, and also to welcome the new Members who I believe have taken possession of these last days. Mrs. Churches, first of all, I think it is important to say that today, at this moment, of course, we have no official notification of the complaint that he comments, and, of course, of his content. We also do not see, therefore, whether the complaint was filed against Sergas or nominally against the management positions of that organization. You, of course, have more data, so you say, than we have. But logically, I think it's a good time to talk a little bit about the theme of hepatitis C, which is a matter that worries and occupies the Galician Health Service for quite a long time. As you will know, hepatitis C virus infection is one of the main causes of chronic hepatitis worldwide, not only in Spain. The C virus is a positive chain RNA virus, characterized by a high sequence heterogeneity. Spanish patients with chronic hepatitis C were mostly infected with blood transfusions, intravenous drug use, or during medical or surgical hospitalization. The progression of hepatitis C virus infection is not by chance either, but it is influenced by risk factors, such as continued use of intravenous drugs, alcohol abuse, obesity or steatosis, advanced age, genetic factors or co-infection with HIV, which increases the possibility of progression. The main objective of the treatment of hepatitis C virus is the healing of infection, which is generally associated with the resolution of hepatopathy in patients without cirrhosis. In patients, unfortunately, who already have cirrhosis at the time of initiating antiviral treatment, virological healing of infection is not equivalent to cure of disease, and therefore, by this fact, deaths may be present at this stage, as I say, advanced disease. In any case, as regards the treatment of patients affected by hepatitis C, in the Galego Health Service, we work as established by the Strategic Plan to Approach Hepatitis C in the National Health System, developed by a group of experts designated by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Services and Equality. The plan is a general framework that we provide to achieve the main objective, which is to reduce the morbidity and mortality caused by hepatitis C virus in the Spanish population by addressing comprehensive prevention, diagnosis, treatment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u285	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u286	...and follow-up of patients.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u287	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u288	Thank you, President. I'm absolutely puzzled. Thank you very much, Counselor, for the kind of medicine you just imparted to us here explaining to us what is the disease of hepatitis C, as it is contracted, what is its evolution and its terrible final outcome. We knew that. I above all, who am an affected, Counselor. How am I not gonna know what hepatitis C is? Anyway, thank you very much for the class. I'm very surprised that they don't know the complaint, that it's already been run, and that I, in my ingenuity, don't have a photocopy here, but I can provide it when you ask for it. I hand in hand and so you will know first hand, or third hand or fourth hand, to which I am referring. You're talking about the strategic plan. I want to tell you that I did bring a data, because I thought I was going to say the number of patients treated, but I didn't even say that. Well, the fact that I'm going to give you, Counselor, is that, from patients, from the number, that number that you manipulate almost whenever you give a number to justify your political action, that number that you say around, is half since the strategic plan started. Half of that number refers to before the strategic plan, and I also give you the testimony of many and very much affected by what I'm dealing with, and of those I don't want to name here, who are waiting for treatment. And if you please, in your reply, I would ask you to answer the specific question of what the complaint seems to you, what justification the Government you represent on this subject. And the second part of the question, which I ask you again, is whether you think you take on political responsibilities. I know it's not a democratic custom that you practice very much, but, well, as we're in times of change, I have a little hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u289	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Replica, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u290	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see. I think you're in a phase that doesn't fit. He says it's due to the judgment on hepatitis C... There's no judgment, what you're saying, is a complaint from the prosecutor's office that is now entering a trial in Santiago, and from there there will be prior proceedings, whether they consider it appropriate or not. But we're in an initial phase. What if I had to tell him, so he could have data... he said he had no data. I think he's got data too, but we're going to give him data, since the new hepatitis C treatments came up, we've been talking about new treatments, what specialists and what you probably know about his illness. Interferon was one of the treatments that was used, but it caused a lot of side effects. And from that date we can say, from the treaties, that until December 31, 2015, until a few days ago, if we exceeded the figure of 3,400 patients treated with hepatitis C virus. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Strategic Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C dates April 1, but we talked about it long before that. We spoke from 2012 until December 31, 2015. And in 2012, 160 patients were treated; 264 in 2013; 339 in 2014; and in 2015, 374 patients, until April 2015, and from there some 2,000 patients more to the end of this year. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think the activity in Sergas this time is a very, very important activity. And, of course, that we're worried, like we're not gonna be worried about hepatitis C! As I said before, because of his mortal character in the final phases above all. So let's keep working that way to do it. But I must also tell you something, Mrs. Churches. To accuse, as you do, that committee made up of ten professionals, between pharmacists and faculty, of saying that they could condemn patients, it's not. They did a great job, and thanks to him we can select and try to give equality to that treatment. In treatment, equality and equity is one thing that we have fundamental to us in the health system, so that we can give all our patients, all of us. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in conclusion, I'm saying, I believe that the work done in that sense throughout the healthcare system put in relation to the treatment of hepatitis C I think it was important and it follows. We're starting to see the first results and they're magnificent, magnificent results. We're all happy for the performance that the great healthcare professionals in Galicia have just given.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u291	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u292	And I just wanted to tell you – allow me, President – four points which sum up a little bit of the action in that period that the honourable Member says, that in all the beginnings of treatment with new antivirals of direct action in the Galician Health Service, a special effort was made to adjust to the criteria of use of these medicinal products set out in the therapeutic positioning reports and the prioritization strategy established within the framework of the National Health System Interterritorial Council. Secondly, to ensure this homogeneity and the equitable access of the users of the Galician Health Service...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u293	It's an important subject. Quiet, please. It's an important subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u294	...all applications for initiation of treatment performed by their prescribers were submitted to an evaluation to verify that they met the initiation criteria...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u295	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u296	...out with those start criteria. Evaluations of the [...] of hepatitis C were carried out anonymously from the clinical documentation of the patient presenting the optional with the request and verifying whether the established criteria of treatment in the National Health System are met. And the fourth and last point...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u297	Yes, it's over now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u298	... once the request for treatment submitted by the address of the corresponding centre is evaluated, it is sent to that address to the Directorate General for Health Care that the criteria for initiating therapy, in the light of the documentation submitted, and with the advice of the sub-commission for the treatment of hepatitis C, are either met or not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u299	Thank you very much, Counselor. The question of Da Terreixa Paz Franco, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the impact of the decision of the Rural Middle Council to exclude from the aid of the Common Agricultural Policy parcels of less than 0.3 acres of shrubs or under tree
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u300	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u301	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor of the Rural Environment, allow me to have a previous character and to define what we're talking about, ask you a previous question that doesn't appear in writing. I suppose that for the Government of Galician Union, the extensive increase, mainly in the mountainous and most disadvantaged areas of our country, will be a priority, both in terms of territorial value and in terms of social, demographic, forest fire prevention and also in terms of the production of food of differentiated quality. Because if that is so, of course, incomprehensible, the attitude of the Galician Union in relation to the application of the CAP in our country. On a previous basis and so that discussions, as discussed in previous questions, are not diverted, the current and current CAP regulations have been adopted all after 2011 and 2012. I mean, there's no government of any different color to blame for. And in the CAP regulations, there has already been an overrun in relation to the extensive livestock market, which is that in the coefficients of eligibility of pasture, forests, woodland and high mountain areas have been eliminated, which in our country are very important and in which mainly neighboring mountains are settled in common hands, and which could have a very important role in the prevention of fires and the preservation of our territory. But in case that was little, and although the regulations on the eligibility of pasture allow accounting for plots of more than 100 square meters, the Galician Union has just made an unheard-of decision in December, which decides to exclude and therefore count as zero the plots of less than 3,000 square meters, that in our country – it has to say – are approximately 100,000 plots. This causes most of the plots that are using many livestock livestock, mainly sheep and goat production, to be excluded from the accounting for certain CAP aids. It will impact on all those agri-environmental aids that have to do with the gainful burden, such as mountain ICs and disadvantaged areas. It will possibly result in a loss of income, with respect to those who had recognized in 2015, more than 30% for these large owners. And all of this, Counsellor, for an administrative decision that has taken by your department, to which no one has forced you, the European Commission or the regulation of the CAP...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u302	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u303	...not the State Government. It was you, Counselor. And we're asking you to explain why you make this decision so hurtful and if you're planning to do something to back it up and not to prejudice the gain in extent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u305	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Peace, of course it is a priority for this government to gain it extensively. Among the measures required by the European Commission for the pasture, both in Spain and in other countries, was the implementation of the pasture eligibility coefficient, the so-called CAP 2015, as well as quality control, by pretending that in general small pastures of less than 3,000 square metres did not meet the requirements for that eligibility. The decision to exclude from the CAP aid all parcels of less than 0.3 hectares of shrub or tree grassland grassland shall be set within the framework of the 2015 CAP. In Galicia, in particular, the practice of all these enclosures of less than 3,000 square meters of shrubs or trees usually be plot edges, i.e., wild, wild, beautiful, which do not meet the eligibility requirements. You are asking, as you are saying, to revoke the instruction by which all parcels of less than 0.3 hectares are excluded as beneficiaries of the CAP aid. Look, the area of shrubs and trees has caused very important problems to the European Commission throughout Spain – also in other members in recent years. For this reason, the Commission has obliged to take corrective measures to avoid undue payments on these areas. It must also be remembered, Mr Díaz, that the current regulations of these aids require that in pasture enclosures there is a predominance of herbaceous vegetation and an annual agricultural activity. In Spain, all this demand from the Commission has led to the implementation of the pasture action plan, which is being pursued continuously by the Commission itself. The decision... better, the instruction to which they refer, i.e., not to consider the plots of shrubs and trees less than 0.3 hectares, is only an average reduction per beneficiary of only 0.2 hectares. This reduction in the declared area is considered to be a correction of the Administration not attributable to the beneficiary, so it does not cause penalties on the rest of the area. Moreover, and as the new basic payment entitlements are assigned to the area resulting from the controls, this decision will not diminish the total amount. Finally, with the small mean reduction of the area per beneficiary indicated, of 0.2 hectares, the effect on the gain load will be very limited, or we can say that even null. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u306	Thank you, Counselor. [[Murmurs.]] You answered Mrs. Peace. Replica, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u307	Thank you, Mr. President, for returning my identity, which I already thought had an identity disorder here. I'm not going to say which, because since you forbid the use of DSM terms in this plenary session, I'm not going to say what kind of disorder I thought I was suffering. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Counsellor, indeed, it is true that in the basic payment the incidence may be irrelevant. But you can't tell me, and, above all, I'm sure you won't dare to do it in front of the gainful, who won't impact on the agri-environmental aids that are linked to the gainful burden, because that's not so. Because if you take away all those plots of less than 3,000 square meters that were counted for the purpose of justifying that they would meet the requirements of gainful cargo, they would cease to meet those requirements. Look, there are actually problems of checking that payments are made not unduly on many surfaces of this kind, but what is being discovered, Counselor, is their inability to manage; and what is being discovered is that Fogga does not have the ability to manage, among other things because you, as they said you could continue doing the job without officials and without public employees and without technicians in rural areas, now it turns out that, as we do not have any technicians to go to check that the conditions laid down in the CAP are actually met, we just prioritise say: oh! because we have already excluded them directly before any other management. And could you explain to me why this measure was not applied in Andalusia and in Castela-Leon, even though I suppose European legislation is the same? And finally, Counsellor, the People's Party – this cannot be attributed directly to you – is an expert in losing European funds from the common agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u308	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u309	You dropped 60 million euros in the past period.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u310	It's over now, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u311	How much are you willing to lose in this new period?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u312	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Replica, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u313	Thank you, Mr. President. Excuse me, Mrs. Paz, for changing your identity, I'm returning you now. Among the concrete measures for the practice of pastoral care and extensive farming in high mountain areas and of special difficulties, since the Greek Government we have already taken various measures, and you should know that. The following are examples: sustainable pasture management aids or the extension aid of the milk cow, included within the Galician agri-environmental measure in the RDP 2014-2020, ecological farming aid, which is also included in the RDP and which has already been convened in 2015 – will know the beneficiaries of their resolution next week–. With these aids, the practice of pastoral care and extensive farming is defended. These measures complement the new payment for mountain areas and with natural limitations, which replaces the previous compensatory compensation, which will be convened in 2016, and in which we can point out that there will be no maximum gainload, which especially favours the cow, and will also have an amount per hectare. That's why this aid will count this year on an budget of EUR 20 million compared to 11.1 million in recent years. In Galicia, pastures that are truly used by an adequate pastoral care will continue to be eligible for direct assistance. You say a lot of things, some of them aren't true. And within that, I tell you, in PDR 2014-2020, the agri-environment, climate and ecological agriculture aids are the equivalent of the 2007-2013 sustainable exploitation contract, with a remarkable simplification. Apart from all this, the aid to the indigenous races, within the measure of agroenvironment and climate of the 2014-2020 RDP, amounts to 175 euros/UGM, while in the 2007-2013 RDP it was 150; that is, 25 euros plus each. They say this decision is derived from a mismanagement of Fogga and the proof of justification for the CAP. This decision shall be governed by the requirements laid down by the European Commission in relation to permanent pasture. People who make statements like this are evident that they are little aware of the problem we can give Galicia and its owners in case we fail to comply with the measures we have to implement. We are accused of basing this on the adoption to avoid sanctions from the European Union. CAP Quality Control Decisions are taken after review of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u314	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u315	... recent photographs, field checks and statistical analyses that support the decisions taken. And once again we have to say that, within the regulation we're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u316	Finish. Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u317	...and of the good work being done by officials and Fogga, this reduction in the declared area – I repeat again – is considered a correction of the administration not attributable to the beneficiary...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u318	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u319	...so that does not penalize the rest of the surface. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u320	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, from G.P. of the Left Galicia alternative, on the implications for the primary production sector of the free trade treaty which the European Union is negotiating with the United States of America
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u321	To put the question you have the word Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u322	The truth is, you're not having a good day, because I did not speak anything on that question. The question has to do with how the TTIP, the Free Trade Treaty, is affected by the aquaculture law. But after this morning's news from Mr Feijóo announcing that he was paralyzing the Aquaculture Law, I want to turn the question into reality: what does it mean to paralyze the Aquaculture Law? You know that the sector, standing up, is not asking to paralyze but to remove this aquaculture law because it is understood that it is unamendable, that it does not serve any of the articles of that law and that it has to be transformed into a new law consensual with the sector and that it serves to advance the sector, and not like this, which is designed simply to annihilate the sector. What do you call consensus, with whom will you consent? Because the sector is telling you that those who pushed a rule that has a hundred percent of the seamen, that even an important part of the People's Party is opposed to this rule – as happened in municipalities like Vilanova's, The Grove, Ribeira's, the Deputy of Pontevedra –, those who pushed it are not legitimized to promote a new norm or to negotiate this one. And, therefore, those whom the People's Party itself recognises that they cannot defend this rule, and those whom the president himself tells them they will have to park it, should absolutely leave their responsibilities. So both the advisor and his general director should resign after this failure with a rule that proves to be contrary to interests. But, above all, today, we have talked about some of the amendments that the People's Party intended to introduce into the rule that is proposed but that are not the fundamental ones, because in no case are they talking about the occupation of the environment, how these concessions will be granted, which will be by means of a method of competition, publicity, merits and propaganda that allows anyone to access a resource; that is, a multinational or even a confrerery that is far from where that exploitation is, which may be in the territory of another one would be confused, so we would return to that moment of confrontation between the sector. But in addition, we ask him a specific question. You cannot tell me this morning that certain areas of industrial fish farming will be excluded when we know that by this standard we will allow the introduction of products and exotic species, all of them carnivorous, and that, in addition, once the Free Trade Treaty with the United States is approved, they can be even transgenic and therefore only one species of these escaped in a stream of this country can mean an irreparable environmental damage that will directly attack the seafood production of fish from our entire country.’ Those are the big questions they have today in the sector. And, above all, the sector is wondering why he had to stand up for war, why he had to do crowds to explain what the Council didn't want to explain, that he was still cheating on himself. But after that announcement, which seems to be a trap of Mr Feijó in electoral terms, because he knows that this law can end with the only possibilities he might have to repeat in his office, he said that the future that this law intended – and so he said – was the aquaculture of Norway and Alaska. What do Norway and Alaska have to do with our aquaculture? What you're considering is an aquaculture that can end with our sea, and therefore what I ask you is a question: what is paralysing? We and the whole sector want the withdrawal and those responsible for getting it out ahead of the Council. Therefore, leave the Council, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u323	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u324	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fajardo, look, in the light of your free assertions, the first thing I think I should ask you is that you have a little bit more measure, a little more scientific rigor and a little more normative knowledge in dealing with such important issues as the field of aquaculture, an activity of which many people live in our community. It must be said that nothing you just said is true. Nothing changes from what there is today, except one thing. Nothing changes as to what multinational companies could already use. They've always had that chance, and they haven't. It must be said that today, with the current regulations in force, it is possible to install fish and other intensive aquaculture facilities, as was done with other governments in 2008 when a temporary authorization was granted for the experimental cultivation of salmon in the Arousa River. If one thing is changed, Mr Fajardo: the conditions laid down in the bill of law are important and rigorous to prevent certain legal voids that exist today from allowing demonstrations in production. Precisely, this search for an exhaustive barrier to the demons that have been provoked in other places is a constant in this text, and you must value it and avoid confusions in terms. Because sometimes they want to confuse what they say with "genetic selection" and "lack of abundance," which leads them to think it's wrong to cultivate Atlantic salmon, which has been in our waters for thousands of years, or the Japanese plum, who well know all our seamstresses. Since then, we aim to prevent deregulation or submission to different regulations from creating gaps between them and from making errors in the cultivation of molluscs, fish or plants similar to some that have occurred in other regions. We want to be, as the President said today, yes, Norway, Scotland or Alaska, where the compatibility between fishing and aquaculture is a fact, where the quality of the waters and the tourist attraction has not diminished despite developing a large aquaculture industry. However, despite the coincidence in its positivity, we want to reiterate our desire never to do anything that would harm the marine sector, the fishing sector and the coastal sector. And that's why we want to stop this process, open up working groups with the sector, to, on the basis of their proposal or ours, improve the text and consensus. I just hope that in that process, if you read the text of the proposal, you can show us in which titles, in which chapters, in which articles or in which provision all these negative or catastrophic issues are marked out of which you are making yourselves manifest. I expect maturity and responsibility for your part, I expect rigor and wisdom, I wait for arguments, Mr. Fajardo, I expect solid arguments that go beyond "not because I don't like it." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u325	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u326	The truth is that I am much more concerned, because you have just failed Mr. President. What does it mean to pause? They won't remove the law, they're setting up working groups. With whom? Who are you going to sit with? Will you choose that magic formula that always has to choose certain species of the sector that are related to your ideas to get a consensus on who? What you're saying right now is not the same as Mr. Feijóo said. But I'll explain something to you. Look, we haven't invented anything. You know this document, right, working paper by the Director-General for Foreign Relations with the European Union of Galicia, presented at the European Committee of Regions, where the Galician Union asks the European Union to legislate in aquaculture. And you know what he says? That a system of licensing may be established by means of a public tender or auction. What do you mean by paralyzing the rule? That will paralyze the norm for the European Union to bring forward this proposal from the Galician Union that says that maritime authorizations can be made for auction so that it will then be the European Union which determines what the auction is and say, "Ah!, I can't do anything because it says so to the European Union." And, therefore, the Galician Aquaculture Act will mean that, by that method of forcing us to the European Union after what the Galician Union itself calls for and the Maneiro itself at a meeting in Portugal, the method of granting the auction. Is that the legal security we were talking about this morning? Is that the mechanism you're going to make for everyone to have equal opportunities to access a resource? Or does a Norwegian, Canadian or Japanese multinational auction have the same possibilities as seafarers in the Arousa River? Tell the truth, Counselor, don't deceive people, tell them what they intend to do. And now they're taking a step back from the pressure of the sector, which tells them this is a barbarity. And don't tell me we're not scientifically correct when we set up a question that's a danger. How can they not be dangerous transgenic salmon in our creeks? And another thing you don't say and we'll have to be clear: you've determined that this is strategic and also supra-municipal. I mean, no council can say that you can't do a fishhouse on its coast, because it's going to be Junta, with a sectoral report, whoever gives the reason or doesn't. So we're talking about taking away even the ability of the municipalities to decide on their territory.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u327	Finish. This law is a barbarity, I ask you to withdraw it, and I ask you to leave the Council because you're disgruntled to negotiate with the sector, which asks you to scream at you to leave your council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u328	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fajardo, I, when I ask for rigour, ask for it from the heart. You this morning, when the president talked about all the steps that were taken until you came to this pre-project development, which I think is how to work with the sector, preparing a draft and telling him: these are our ends and now you have the opportunity to speak and improve it, you said that they made allegations to the Esga. Not one! In six years, when we arrived at the Government in 2009, we said that we would work for legal certainty and seek to speed up administrative procedures so that aquaculture could develop in this country. You say it took six years to make this draft law. We have been lying in these six years, first of all, we have made a Welsh strategy of aquaculture that has only been to the public exhibition – allow me to look at it so as not to be wrong – from February 2, 2012 until October 3, 2012, small space of time for nobody to know it. Not a single claim has been made, Mr. Fajardo, not a single one! And this morning the president would deny it when you said they would introduce it. It's wrong when it confuses the Greek strategy of aquaculture, to which I repeat that no one has made a single claim, only administrations. And you did submit an allegation to the Coastal Aquaculture Director Plan, an allegation at the beginning of the Coastal Aquaculture Director Plan. [[Murmurs.]] And you, who are saying that in want of multitrophic aquaculture, it turns out that the claim presented to the Coastal Aquaculture Director Plan says quite clearly: "Setting a coastal aquaculture director plan requires defining a clear aquaculture production model, which is based on sustainability, based on herbivore species, molluscs and algae, with a multitrophic integrated approach and with labelling and strict environmental control measures." Exactly what comes up with the draft law we introduced. Mr. Fajardo, the public domain in this country will be managed through concessions and authorizations, whether in the public domain of the sea, in the maritime-terrestrial or in the land, and these concessions and authorizations have a regulated pattern of how to access them. Since 2011 more than 500 bats have been sold in this country, which have changed hand-on-hand from drummer to drummer, no multinationals have come to buy them. I could do it, of course! But we, to avoid these slots, to avoid all these things that you are scaring and misleading people, are why we put this draft bill, to avoid discretionaryness to the representatives of the administration, and to avoid discretionaryness in the representative bodies of the sector. Mr. Fajardo, I, when I refer to representatives of the sector, refer to those people who choose the sector itself to come and negotiate with the administrations. I'll never insult them, as you just did, calling them specimens. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u330	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and six other Members of the G.P. People in Galicia, on the assessment of the Council of the Sea in relation to the agreement reached at the Council of Ministers for Fisheries of the European Union on TACs and catch quotas for major commercial interest species for 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u331	To put the question, Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u332	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Counsellor, as you well know, every year, at the end of December, there is a new meeting of the Council of Fisheries Ministers of the European Union, convened to discuss the allocation of fishing opportunities for most species of major commercial interest to our fleet. They're known as TACs and quotas, they're the fishing limits they'll set over the year we're in, the year 2016. As you know, Counselor, you're better than anyone, the popular Greeks always defend a distribution model than there is. Those who negotiated our entry into the European Union accepted a manifestly insufficient key of distribution in relation to the capacity of our fleet, with the capacity of the Welsh fleet. And we're still working to change it, either directly or indirectly, but now it's up to us to negotiate in that frame the best interests our fleet can have and the best interests it can have in the fishing sector our autonomous community. So far we have made this commitment that in the last years of the People's Party's government there is a more successful negotiation and the supply of scientific reports that point to our requests, which has resulted in a significant increase in fishing opportunities for our fleet, that is, for the Galician fleet. The people and the Union always agree on the importance of greater fishing opportunities, we are the group that has most claimed more fishing opportunities in this House, with the vote against the opposition. Well, we'd like to give our fleet more opportunities, and we know that on that line you come to work, Counselor. And today to have a more accurate X-ray of what happened in the negotiation this year, we want you to carry out a timely evaluation. And the question that this honourable Member is asking you, the question put to you by the majority group of the House, the group that supports the Government's action and the group that most initiatives have brought to this Parliament to change that system of distribution which harms our fleet because others have put us there and have not been able to get us out – and now they don't even support us the initiatives that we are presenting to get out of there – is: what are you, Counsellor, on the TACs and quotas for 2016? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u334	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Balsairo, as you will well understand, since the Council of the Sea, and as the main associations of the Greek and Spanish fisheries sector have done, we must regard as moderately positive the agreement reached at the Council of Fisheries Ministers last December 15 on TACs and quotas for 2016. In order to achieve that assessment, I think it must be taken into account that the starting point proposed by the European Commission was initially very harmful, and that the work of the sector and the Administration contributed to cushioning the impact of the proposed drop on certain species of high interest, such as the downside of more than 60% in the case of southern fish. We understand, therefore, that we are starting from a very complicated picture, and that the Ministry has achieved the best possible agreement. Together we achieved 6,000 tonnes more than last year, which means an increase of almost 2.5 % overall of Spanish quotas this year, which accumulates to 13% of the increase in quotas earned in the period 2012-2014. In this sense, we believe that the work carried out by Galicia is important and satisfactory by transferring reports and documentation on the socio-economic impact that would have the originally proposed cuts on the lirium, so that the work carried out by the General Fisheries Secretariat, which addressed the fish, rap and cock. With this, and deepening on the data obtained, we understand clearly positive results achieved for the fleet of the Great Sun, which benefits with increases in the quota of the fish, of the cock and of the cock, and a continuity in the toad fish, in the strips and in the abbex. In addition, in the case of the Cantabrian, we see that the siege is also benefited, with the increase in the interest rate by 27% in the Cantabrian, and by 15% in the area 9A, from Fistra to Portugal, which compensate for the fall of the yard, which will probably remain in the same figures as last year. In this same area, it must also be pointed out that it was possible to curb the free fall that was taking place for the fish, moving from 62% to an actual 21% drop, as stated at the beginning. Similarly, the proposal to cut cock, rap and lire, abbot and stripe has also been further slowed down. And with these figures we must also say that we know that there are certain fleets and fishing vessels, especially the fixed arts in the national barn, for which the result is not desirable, although we managed to substantially improve the point of departure. Finally, it must be said that Galicia has been awaiting negotiations at all times through the Director-General for Fisheries, Aquaculture and Technological Innovation, who has travelled to Brussels to follow progress closely. And he's been in constant contact with the Minister and with the Greek representatives of the sector moved to this negotiation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u335	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u336	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor for your answer. We agree with you and agree with the sector as well, because that is what you have expressed, and we agree that the evaluation of these results is significantly positive, within the difficulty of what we have discussed earlier. The result of the negotiation is clearly favourable in view of the starting situation of which we have left and the situation in which it ended. We consider in these negotiations the different segments of the fleet, and seeing the results of the most relevant commercial species for the Galician fleet, which is the important thing. It's not like having a big quota in the fish, which is the main species, that have a big quota in the garden, by setting an example, or another kind of species. But the truth is, you explained it here, and you said we've grown in the global calculation by 2.5 percent and said there was an added increase of 13% accumulated in recent years. As you will understand, we are not going to ask you, after giving this data, to leave. We can't tell you that if you go, we have to tell you to stay and keep working just as you've been working for the past seven years, because you've been able to reverse this data. [[Applause]] We used to have 13% less, and now we have 13% more. For something it will be! That's why telling you that if you go away would be to tell the Greeks that we don't want the best for them, and that we don't want the best for the fishing industry. That's why we don't tell him if he goes away, we tell him to stay a long time and keep working on this board on the same line he's been working on in the last few years so that the Greek fishermen have more quota, so they have more quota. [[Applause]] You can only tell him that if you leave those who have just come to Parliament and have no idea what was going on in this Parliament before this legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u337	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u338	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Balsairo, thank you very much for your words of support. As you well know me, even though it causes a certain riot in the opposition ranks, from the moment I thank you for the work being done in the administration since April 20, 2009. When we arrived we said what our roadmap was going to be, which was to work on defending the fishing sector, working in defense of the seafood sector, working in defense of the aquaculture sector, and so we saw it, that he didn't have the slightest doubt. We won't lose a single minute in the country to which others want to lead us and deceive us, we always tell the truth to the sector, we work with them in their defense. Today we've been accused of a lot of things, but, look, it's not just that 13% more that was achieved from 2012 to 2014, is that today the search sector has 52% more fishing opportunities than it had in 2009. That's the truth, and that's the figures, and on that line we're going to keep working. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] I am very proud today to see that in the Commission's own studies, in the document proposed by the Commission for the analysis of TACs and quotas, one can see that none of the objective species in which our fleet works, none of the species in our national quay, are at risk of collapse, as is the case with species that are exploiting other fleets from other member countries. That's why, Mr. Balsairo, you don't have the slightest doubt that I won't dilapidate a minute to continue working on this line, in defense of our fishing sector, the seafood sector and the aquaculture sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-01-27-DSPG139.u339	Thank you, Counselor. Solved the agenda items, aborting session.
