ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u1	Good morning, ladies and public. Let's start the session. Thank you. Before starting with point 6, which corresponds to questions with an oral response to the President of the Galician Union, I would like to apologize for Mr. Beiras' assistance, who came in contact with me this morning and cannot attend this session. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the extension of the stay of Cence in the river Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u2	To put the question, Mr. Jorquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Feijóo, I propose a new motto for your party, the title of a Spanish comedy of the 1990s: All for the pasta. For the pasta, a government in function delivers the river from Pontevedra to Ence for 60 years. For the money, Mr Feijóo, the paper and the other, because, in exchange for investment commitments of €61 million, they privatize the public domain to secure a private company profits of $2,000 million. An unfair and cowardly decision, Mr. Feijóo. Coward because they didn't do it before the end of the state legislature for fear of political cost. And they're doing it now because they're afraid they won't continue ruling in the state. Coward because you proposed that the decisions of a government should be limited to matters of procedure, and now they intend to present this decision to us as if it were the culmination of a simple administrative procedure. Coward because the same Government that dispatched our fleet representatives to the siege saying that a government being in functions could not modify fishing quotas, now gives the stream of Pontevedra to a private company. Look, that's all an example of who you rule over. To the sailors in the siege, with the doors in the nose, and to the Ence, turning doors. Because that's what lies behind this decision, Mr. Feijóo, subjecting the general interest to the interests of a board of directors. Counsel – I would miss more! – where Mrs. Isabel Tocino, Mr. Carlos del Alamo are placed and a long payroll of friends. You can't speak out in reply as President of the Board, Mr. Feijóo. You can't speak for answers because your government is responsible. He's responsible, first, for betraying his electoral commitments. Second, it is responsible for issuing a favorable report. Third, he's responsible for allowing a change to the Back Law that invaded our powers. A change of the Law of Back which extended concessions in public domain for another 75 years. And he's ultimately responsible because the extension of Ence is supported by the Galician Union, which accepted the blackmail imposed by the company. That's why, Mr. Feijóo, are you willing to rectify? Are you willing to hear the immensely majority cry of Pontevedra society? Will you finally take any measures before the 60-year extension for Ence to stay in Pontevedra? Lots of bitches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u4	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the location of the stationery Ence in the stream of Pontevedra we don't like everyone we're here. [[Murmurs.]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to reiterate that neither the Government nor the majority group nor the opposition seats like the location of the Ence trash can be found in the Pontevedra stream, and that's not new, because the party I belong to proposed to evaluate and study a possible transfer from that trash can. Your Honor, about a year ago you asked me about Ence. About a year ago he answered in the same way. The Greeks have the right to know that in Ence there are two options: close it and, consequently, hundreds of people unemployed and thousands of families decreasing their income by selling wood, or either facilitate it to remain open by always, in fact, meeting two conditions. First, that it always complies with Spanish and European environmental legislation. I always say. And secondly, look for economic certainty, employment and concrete investments in that company. Your Honor, you and I know there is no alternative but these two: either close it, or make it easier, by complying with environmental regulations, the current location. And I say it, ladies and gentlemen, because you've been in Galicia for as long as we have and never proposed an alternative location; you never spoke where you could go. Why? Because the Greeks know that to have a trash can like that of Ence we need a daily stream of water similar to the consumption of 200,000 people. We know that to locate a trash can we need the proximity of a river or the sea. We know we need the proximity of an international port of silence. And we also know that we need an electric force of 30 megawatts, similar to the consumption of half the city of Vigo, daily. So, ladies and gentlemen, we were in a dilemma and we followed in that dilemma; and that's why you've been ruling for a long time in Pontevedra and never proposed an alternative to Ence, except to shut down and go to unemployment hundreds of families, and thousands of families who see their income diminished by selling wood. Your Honor, what did you do to Galician Union? The same as the Bipartite Union, exactly the same: see if the environmental commitments are met. You believed in the 2008 environmental impact statement that signed your government. And we believe it again now, signed by this government. Your Honor, what you have done to the Bipartite Union and today's Union is exactly the same: whether or not you meet the rules. Now, Your Honor, you're asking me something else. What will the current Meeting do? Look, Your Honor, we know that Ence has just assumed a great debt to Pontevedra, Pontevedra comarca and Galicia as a whole. And that's why we're going to demand that you pay for the planned investments, keep the planned employment, and keep the existing environmental regulations year by year and month. And I would add, and we will also demand something more: that we continue to comply above the legal limits with European environmental legislation. Two. Make investments in the forest sector. And, three, that brings new industrial projects to Pontevedra...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u7	...and Galicia. Your Honor, we are not going to lie to the Greeks. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u9	Mr. Feijóo, it was too late, because you lied to the Greeks when the popular party electoral program featured the relocation of Ence. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Feijóo, who rules in Galicia, for now, it's you. You're the one who has to decide where to relocate Ence, because Pontevedra is not a good placement for Ence. Secondly, Mr Feijóo, stop using the job as an alibi. Look, Ence is only sector number 20, in the generation of jobs in Pontevedra. It destroys more employment than it creates, in Pontevedra and Galicia, Mr. Feijóo, because it imposes a model of forest monoculture, a predatory model of public resources, natural resources and predatory jobs as well. Look, Mr. Feijóo, if you're so worried about jobs, you might be worried that Galicia's leading in the destruction of employment, that we've been growing unemployment for five consecutive months, Mr. Feijóo. But you don't defend jobs, that's the problem, Mr. Feijóo! You're defending the interests of a friendly company. Can you explain to me why the Galician Board has signed an agreement that lowers up to 60% the rate it pays Ence for using the port of Ribadeo? Look, to do a favor to Ence, we stop getting half a million euros in the year. You justified the signing of this agreement so that the trade in goods was not lost, and it turns out that even in the convention they do not support the signing of this agreement to the maintenance of that traffic. Look what the agreement says, Mr. Feijóo, I'm going to read textually: "Business obligations. Movements necessary until the operational implementation of the project Ence has agreed with FEVE and the port of Gijón." Look, but I'm still saying, "For rail transport with origin or destination in our Navia factory." In our factory of Navia, Mr Feijóo. Can you tell me who made this agreement? Look, let me tell you something. He did it, Ence, the board just signed what happened to Ence. That's what you've reduced to Galician Union, Mr. Feijóo; that's the misfortune of this country, that you've reduced Galician Union to a scam that just signs what your friendly companies and large multinationals say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u10	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Close, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u11	Your Honor, when you talk to me about employment, I'm sorry, because this rostrum comes a lot of people from other companies every time there are questions, and it's surprising that no workers from Once come to this rostrum, Mr. Jorquera. Is it because the entire company committee in Ence is against BNG's proposals for unemployment in connection with this paperwork, Your Honor? Do the Ence workers not agree with your proposal at all? [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, of course we're concerned about employment, it's the biggest concern, and that's why today's job in Galicia is better than last year and than the previous year, and the previous year and the previous one. But that's what we're going to discuss. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, the job in the district of Pontevedra de Ence is around 800, plus the truckers, plus half the port of Marín, plus 75,000 owners, 75,000 families, who sell the wood to Ence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's the BNG proposal for them, Your Honor? Selling the wood to Ence, yes, but to Navia. In other words, the costs of transporting the wood of the provinces of Coruña and Lugo are charged to families to pay for the transport of the wood that is taken to Ence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, the number of wood produced in Galicia rose by 30%, and the volume with cortex by 45%. The volume of leafy trees in Galicia, of wood, rose by 42%. Your Honor, we've got enough wood not for a pulp office, no, for two or three. Yes, Your Honor, we have wood installed and we have a trained country to produce wood and put it in value. [[Murmurs.]] I'm sorry, Your Honor, that you don't agree with the industrialization of Galicia. Every time we try, you're against it. Your Honor, what left-wing movement do you belong to? Look, when Ence closed the factory in Huelva, there was a whole movement of the left-wing Town Councils in favor of the stay of Ence in Huelva; motions from the councils of the Socialist Party suggesting that Ence remained in Huelva. [[Murmurs.]] And what you're asking is that Ence expand its facilities in Asturias and we're left without any wood treatment industry in Galicia. That's why, Your Honor, your proposal is surprising. [[Murmurs.]] But look, Your Honor, I understand that from the seats it's very easy to talk about families that are out of work. From the boots of this Parliament it's easy to talk to the families who work and the families who sell wood that just spoils our paperwork. You and I are being spoiled by the paperwork, which does not disturb us are the thousands of families that live in the wood sector in Galicia, Your Honor. Those don't bother us. [[Applause]] That's why, Your Honor, when you ask me the question be honest. Say, look, Mr. Feijóo, we want you to close Ence and therefore families to look for a job wherever they can. Is that the BNG proposal? Your Honor, our proposal is that Ence continue to comply with environmental legislation, that Ence continue to make more investments than he does in the Greek forest, that Ence brings more industrial projects to Galicia... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u13	...and while I'm president, I'll fight for it, gentlemen. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now he says that it's up to me to point out the placement of Ence. Look, Mr. Jorquera, they've been ruling in Pontevedra for 17 years, what's the placement you proposed? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You've been in the Bipartite for four years, Your Honor, and here's the Bipartite document...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u14	Finish. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u15	...the environmental statement in favour of Ence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u17	... bears the Government's signature of what you were part of. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the guarantee for the economic policy of the Union of Galicia from the exit of the crisis
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u19	Mr. Feijóo, last week I asked him again about the scandal of the influence of a person in his private circle. As always, he avoided answering me, as if he didn't understand or it wasn't relevant. That you don't know anything about anything is a classic. He did not understand himself as a member of the leadership of both PP and Gürtell and Bárcenas or the large-scale robbery of his party in Valencia. Today you don't know, but recently you shared scenarios and decisions, and here they are all well portrayed: you, Acebes, Rita Barbera, Camps and Mariano Rajoy. Most of them are already charged with matters you should know, but they haven't found out. So today I'm not going to ask you, I'm going to give you some information for your knowledge. Your old friend Martial Dorado, who is in prison for drug trafficking, has just been convicted again for bleaching – said the sentence – huge amounts of money precisely in the years of friendship with you. You probably weren't talking about minor issues like drugs or bleaching, they probably just talked about insubstantial issues like snow and others. Mr President, in these days you multiply the speeches about the other parties, it unceasingly feeds speculation about their future and avoids addressing the great problems of the country. They announce targets for 2020, which in many cases involve returning to the 2009 data. I mean, a decade lost. The latest employment data are terrible: in the EPA, in the unemployment register, in the number of unemployed, in the number of unemployed, and sum up in two digits. Since you rule, we've lost 138,000 busy and won 60,000 unemployed. Besides, with you we lost 52,000 indefinite contracts, 37,000 temporary contracts and 150,000 full-time contracts. Wages are falling free and the third part of the population at risk of poverty. Here's the balance: more unemployment, galloping poverty, extreme inequality. You've been at your starting-up attitude for many months, messing up and not ruling, and your economic policy is a failure. They can only deny that those adultulants who are subsidised. Or are you good at these figures?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u20	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, if you want to talk about economics, we'll talk about it. If you want to talk about anything else, too. I am not Mr. Beaster's spokesman, I am the spokesman of myself. So, Your Honor, as I think you're more interested in talking about economics, we're going to talk about economics. You tell me about EPA, I appreciate it. EPA just came out and measured the 2015 job. He says three things. First of all, the creation of jobs. Second, let the unemployment decrease. And third, that both employment and unemployment have better behavior than in the middle of Spain. The EPA says exactly that the increase in occupation in Galicia in 2015 was 32.100; that is, 3.2, and in Spain 3.9. EPA says the unemployment rate is 41,100; 15.6; and 12.4 in Spain. He says, Your Honor, therefore EPA that since 2007 we didn't have an EPA better than this year 2015. There are more indicators, Your Honor. The unemployed are registered. In Galicia unemployment is lower than in Spain; 8.7 in Galicia, 8.3 in Spain. We have just known the industrial production index, in Galicia above Spain; in Galicia 4.1 and Spain 3.2. We're done or we're about to know the exports. The record year of exports from the Greek economy is 2015 and rises more than Spain, Spain being the country of the European Union where exports increase the most. Another data. The retail sales index. In Galicia it rises more than in Spain, the fourth largest community. Business confidence in Galicia rises more than in Spain; and consumer confidence in Galicia is better than the rest of Spain. Your Honor, do you think all these are adulations? INE is an adulation?, is EPA an adulation?, is registered unemployment an adulation?, is the price index and the industrial production index paid by the People's Party of Galicia? Look, Your Honor, we've had the highest growth in the economy since the year 2008, when you ruled. We have a lower unemployment rate than the year 2015, the year 2014, the year 2013, the year 2012 and the year 2011, and we have more memberships to Social Security than in 2015, 2014 and 2013. Your Honor, this is what we were thinking, and we have just brought to the House a strategic plan that you are invited, as is natural, at least to read it, would be good. And if they want to propose, we're very interested in listening to them. Yes, Your Honor, if the problems that have just appeared in the international economy and political instability in Spain – increasingly growing – do not diminish our economic capacities, we believe that Galicia will continue to grow an average of 2.5 % in the coming years, up to 2020, and that we can create 100,000 new jobs. Your Honor, we believe Galicia can improve economically even more than we're improving. Now, Your Honor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u22	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u23	...I'm sorry but I don't belong to the Socialist Party. There are over 220,000 people in Galicia who are still in the economic crisis, which is the economic crisis of unemployment. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u25	Mr. Feijóo, this group is bound to read the strategic plan. You just read from your plan the introduction, and you'll see the dramatic figures that are reflected there, which are those of the official statistics. Now you turn it around. I'm going to summarize the data because I didn't hear you tell it clearly. Since you've been there, 138,000 are less busy and 60,000 are more unemployed. Do you mean we're growing up as Spain is growing, or haven't you found out that there's 33% difference? Or are the investors getting here running, day after day? Or are qualified people coming here to join this new El Dorado? Be humble, Mr. Feijó, because the data, unfortunately, do not accompany him. Look, to talk about your inconsistencies, just read the Chamber Session Diary. I'll remind you of some rhetorical pearls you said here. You said to the previous President: We have a problem, we have been without economic policy for three years. We have no economic policy in aquaculture, we have paralysed the sector; we have no economic policy in the dairy sector, in the wind and in the forest sector. And I'd say more to the previous president. He said, "For fishing purposes, Galicia has no government." For fishing purposes, Galicia has no president. Hey, Mr. Feijóo, at least look in the mirror! Those are your phrases in 2008. What did you do eight years later? If you were worried, how could you not do anything? Or was he talking about talking then? A falsamrate? You told the German president, moreover, rhetorical and forcefully: You talk to people, you talk to those who have trouble reaching the end of the month, you talk to those who have to leave Galicia because they can't afford the mortgage and they don't have work. Mr. President, if you were really worried and wasn't a pose, what did you do for those people? Put them down definitely? Breaking up with all hope? Despair your training? Turn them into cheap labor? You invite them to emigrate? You're stripping them of social rights? Mr. Feijóo, how can you be so inconsequential, so disciplined by the powerful...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u26	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u27	...and such an exploiter with the weak?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u29	Mr. Méndez Romeo, what I told the Government that you were part of was what the Greeks told him in the March 2009 elections. Therefore, most of the Greeks agreed with us when they told their government that they had stopped ruling and given us most of them enough to be here for two continued legislations, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Now, I'm glad you quote the previous president because there's not enough difference between the former president of the Socialist Party and the current one. But, finally, those are things of the Socialist Party. Mr. Méndez Romeo, you were a member of Mr. Zapatero's Government, then you were a member of the Bipartisan Government and now you are one of the leading socialist leaders of Mr. Besterio's team. Of course, he needs to be brave to talk about economic politics with his curriculum. Look, Your Honor, there are fewer busy people. We have less active population, indeed. Why? Because there's an alarming ageing of the population. But what EPA says... do you remember when they always talked about EPA? What EPA says is we have 32,000 more busy, and that's 3.2% more; that's to say we've grown up in more occupation than Spain. What EPA says is that unemployment has dropped 41,100 people, 15.6%; more than the average of Spain, which did 12.4%. That's what EPA says, Your Honor. What EPA says is that the Greek economy is growing in 2015 more than it has grown since 2008. What says the registered unemployment is that today we have less unemployment than in 2015, than in 2014, than in 2013, than in 2012 and in 2011. What social security membership says is that today we have more social security membership than in 2015, than in 2014 and 2013. And if you ask me if we're satisfied, I say no. What do we have to keep improving? No doubt. But, taking the Socialist Party's recipes, you'll understand that what we're trying to do is solve the economic recession in which the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party put us. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, what we're doing. Mr. Méndez Romeo, please point. Let me make this impossible decade of a socialist government: the economy is growing, unemployment is falling, membership is rising, exports are rising, industrial production is rising, trade is being sold, business confidence rises, consumer confidence is rising, taxes are falling, and the Greeks are not paying for the right of successions since 1 January this year. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Méndez Romeo, this is the decalogue to which you could never point. Thank you very much, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of the Galga de Left Alternative, on the management of the Government of Galicia in relation to the productive sectors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u31	Good morning, Mr. Feijó. He doesn't want to talk about Martial Dorado or Pachi de Lucas or Baltar. No wonder! Tell me who you're going with and tell me who you are. I don't know if he called Mr. Martial Dorado to give his support as a friend after the last sentence for money-laundering in the years he was with you through Estoril, London, Andorra, Picos de Europa – where there was snow – or if he at least sent you an SMS saying, "if you're strong, Martial." But we're going to talk about the management phase, what you assumed before you got to the government. We have recently known the data of the Ministry of Agriculture from the closure of dairy farms in the Spanish State. Of the 600 dairy farms that were closed in the Spanish State, Mr Feijóo, 425 were Welsh. A success! 70% of the farms that they close in the state are Welsh, Mr. Feijóo, and it's not an isolated data nor is it a coincidence. Systematicly and constantly, the yellow gloves perceive the lowest prices in the state; in two years, a decrease of 26.91%. They've known for too long a price that doesn't cost, which brings the sheep to ruin. It is the continuation, Mr. Feijóo, of the destruction of the primary sectors caused by their policies. There's a demolition and revealing data. Shortly after you arrived in the Government, in the third quarter of 2009, there were in the agricultural, livestock, forestry and in the 71,600 occupied hunting. In the last quarter of 2015, there were 45,000, Mr. Feijóo. It's 25,000 jobs in the agricultural and forest sector that have been destroyed since you ruled. More than 35% of the job destroyed, Mr. Feijóo; another success as manager, Mr. Feijóo. A brutal silent conversion, even above the already serious industrial sector, with the loss of 20% of employment, or 14% of the jobs destroyed in the sea sector. Your step through the Government, Mr. Feijóo, is a real failure. A failure in the milk, where you let the moneywinners get away. In the face of a dramatic situation that they suffer, a government that has disappeared, irresponsible, incapable, and which above all has the shame of taking responsibility for the owners of their situation. Indignant! The failure in fishing and shellfish, where it has the whole sector against and forces it to paralyze the Aquaculture Law. And the absolute failure in the wind sector, where you don't have a megawatt of your contest, Mr. Feijóo, and where you stopped the sector when you could be creating jobs and wealth. And while people were suffering, while they were being challenged, while they were losing their jobs, while they were losing their unemployment benefit, you've become addicted to stealing, cheating, avoiding taxes, using public administrations to their advantage, making friends. And now, you only have the ability to try to cover up corruption scandals that day and day also come out of the People's Party; and you, personally, to protect corrupt people like Mr. Baltar, who has been using the Customer Service for years, and captivatingly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u33	...with your protection and your defense, Mr. Feijóo. Shame! Will they be able to provide solutions to the productive sectors of Galicia, or are they just trying to cover up corruption and protect the corrupt?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u34	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It's curious that you are exactly what you are asking today for by the production sectors of Greece. After what happened here yesterday, it's very surprising that you ask about the productive sectors and how the Greek workers are doing. Look, we have made it clear that our political commitment is to try to improve the productive sectors of Galicia. I mean, we want them to be able to generate jobs and generate wealth. You don't know what you want, or, in other words, whenever you think about something, it's always against the productive sectors. We just checked it out. Indeed, you had a great opportunity. Since they pose the right to decide in Spain, here we can't even debate an amendment. You, now that you have arrived in Madrid – although you don't paint anything at the moment – say you want the right to decide, and yet yesterday in Parliament we have been denied the opportunity to discuss. You are, without a doubt, the new Democrats, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, reading your resume, I understand you're an entrepreneur in the field of ecological horticulture. It's hard to understand, Your Honor, that if you're an entrepreneur, you're always standing against the productive sectors. If you had a company in the automotive sector, you'd occupy a plot, and all you'd ask is to be able to expand your facilities without extending to anything the boundaries of the plot, without harming the captors, without waving any neighbors, would you think it would be nice not to be left? Look, we belong to an administration that is trying to remove obstacles. What you are trying, Your Honor, is that the families of PSA-Peugeot-Citroën and the automotive sector... there they are, Your Honor! You are so rich in your seat in Parliament. Your Honor, if you were an entrepreneur in the naval sector, I suppose what you would try to have would be a government that supported you in the complaint of the tax liability socialist commissioner. We did, and you criticized us for that and all we did in the naval sector. Today there is work in the naval sector in Galicia. If you, Your Honor, were an entrepreneur in the aquaculture sector, I suppose what you would like would be a law; a law to give you legal security. What we want is a law, just with the sector, to give you legal security. That's why we're not going to fool the shipbuilding industry or the automotive sector or the aquaculture sector, and that's why, Your Honor, we're not going to fool the dairy sector, for nothing, Your Honor! Why? Because we're with him, exactly because we're with him. Look, Your Honor, what we did was put zero taxes on the countryside, you're against it. [[Murmurs.]] Are you, who is a rural entrepreneur, in favour of or against which plots can be transmitted, permutate plots, acquire plots, without taxes? Look, Mr. Sánchez, the two facts of our commitments to the industrial sector are not data from the Government, it's data from the Industrial Production Index. We've increased more than the average of Spain; and the second data, Your Honor, is that we're exporting more than the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u37	And the dairy sector is one of the strategic sectors of the Greek economy. [[Murmurs.]] With the dairy sector we'll be, I'm sorry you're not with anyone except yourself. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u39	Mr. Feijó, yes, I'm a worker in the vegetable sector. Look, you don't care about the Citroën workers at all, Mr. Feijóo. On the contrary, use them irresponsibly as shields to try to impose a rule that is prejudicial to Vigo and to the remaining 313 municipalities. I myself spoke to the address of Citroën and the workers, Mr Feijóo. Tell me the workers told you. I know what they told me. And what both the workers and the management of Citroën want is to be in a country where urbanism gives them the legal security needed to be able to do their industrial plans without having to be like now, in the insecurity that jobs can be lost because of their shady way of doing urbanism. And the most obvious proof of the head of urbanism is that you couldn't approve the amendment to article 144 because you submitted it out of time. They were not even able, with 41 Members and having an absolute majority, to get him forward! [[Laughter]] Hatter, improvisation, irresponsibility and a curtain of smoke to carry forward other plans that you don't mean. They shield the workers irresponsibly. Incapacity, inactivity. How could a peasant lord, a vegetable businessman, block a law that wants to get the majority out of the People's Party? It's only possible if you're incapacitated, understand, Mr. Feijóo? You're endangering Citroën's workers, you're harming Vigo and you've harmed Galician by their chaotic way of urbanizing. The data is there, Mr. Feijóo, and he didn't answer me. You in the industrial sector have lost 40,000 jobs since you arrived. You paralyze the wind sector; zero megawatts installed in your contest. You unlawfully cancelled the Bipartite contest, Mr. Feijóo. Galicia was the leader in the megawatt facility when you arrived and now it's gone, it's already lost jobs, we've lost jobs, we've lost wealth, Mr. Feijóo. The gangsters have been receiving a price under production costs for two years. And of course, you've been very quiet here for 30 years living in the public administration and you don't have to live with the drama of gain when you can't afford the costs, Mr. Feijóo. It's very quiet here, and surely when you leave step, because you're past, you have no credibility anymore, you'll have a good job too...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u40	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u41	...and you won't have to fight every day, like you've got to fight the gain, so you can survive.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u42	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Close, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u43	Look, Your Honor, for now the People's Party of Galicia maintains its autonomy to elect its representatives. Here the caste of Podemos de Madrid does not come to dissolve the People's Party of Galicia as it dissolves its political formation No, Your Honor, we have autonomy for this. [[Applause]] I know, Your Honor, that some of those who are there agree, because even though they are in the same group are enemies to each other; there is no more to see how the House is prepared. [[Laughter]] Look, of course I spoke to the representatives of Citroën! You know what they told me? I'm sure you can agree with AGE. And I said, I think you're very optimistic, but I'm located every day to see if AGE... I don't ask you to vote for it anymore, but at least let us decide. Let us decide on the area of the German automobile. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, if you mind me calling him an entrepreneur, I'll take it back. But you, who is an entrepreneur, surprise me with your proposals. You're an entrepreneur and you're against the aircraft sector in Galicia. Yes, it's against the aeronautical sector and the investment we're about to conquer in Rozas, Lugo. You, who are an entrepreneur, are against the German gas sector. Yeah, he's against Reganosa and he wants us to close Reganosa so he doesn't have gas in Galicia. You, who are an entrepreneur, are against Ence. Yes. Why? Just because it bothers you. Me too, Your Honor. What happens, Your Honor, is that I'm a face-to-face person, and those who don't agree with Ence, I take their criticisms, Your Honor, which I'm not going to assume in any case are the economic and productive jokes you're talking about. Your Honor, two weeks ago you were talking to me about social policy, and I told you that this government was turning a thousand round to social policy that you were implementing in cities. Now he talks to me about economic policy, and I remind him that this government is giving him as many changes as in social policy or more. Protesting knows enough to protest, but ruling, Your Honor, you don't rule anywhere. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, that you vote against Vigo's automobile makes you irresponsible. But now that you're talking to me about the productive sectors in Galicia today, the next day, you call them to a maximum political disgrace. Your Honor, don't play games with people, don't use shame to play games with people and their families. [[Protests.]] Look, Your Honor, I understand that you have discussions with the mayor of Vigo, it's easy, but that's not what we're dealing with. We're dealing with the automotive sector, we're working on one of the key sectors of our country. Your Honor, you've been ruling for nine months in the cities, are there any known job proposals in the cities where they rule? What have you contributed in economic matters to Galicia's problems? Your Honor, get out of your seats and start ruling and start working, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u45	They start working for Galicia. Do it, work for the country, and not only protest and breach the sector's commitments. [[Applause]] They're working on something, Your Honor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Please, let's not start. Don't start, please don't start. I said we would resume the agenda with the point of non-legislative proposals. Quiet, please, to find out what we're going to discuss. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the Royal Decree 900/2015 of 9 October, so the self-consumption of electricity is regulated
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u47	No amendments were tabled. Mr Vázquez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u48	Good morning. Good morning to say something, after the President's intervention we just heard.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u49	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u50	An intervention in which the President made personal references to the initiative... They're not interested, president. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u51	Join the microphones, if possible, yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u52	He said the president made personal references to initiatives to boost ecological agriculture in our country. [[Murmurs.]] They're cutting the microphones while the president is. It's a tactic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u53	House services, see if you can fix the topic of rostrum microphones. Time's up, calm down. Try now, please. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u54	Yes, testing. Okay. Now that the president doesn't listen to us, we can say that, despite his personal references to the projects of boosting ecological agriculture, we already know that he is more supportive of other types of crops, more related to alkaloids, right? And that's why he supports businessmen in the sector, no doubt taking pictures of him. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But, well, so what happens, so what happens, that really... I don't know if it's something... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u55	Quiet, please. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u56	I don't know if I said anything that might disturb your lords... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u57	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u58	Well, I say that's why this happens, and that's why the European Commission has been obliged on repeated occasions to draw attention to the governments of the People's Party for their frequent negligence. In this case, last November we met a report from the European Commission which found the brutal energy dependence on fossil fuels – gas and oil fundamentally – of the Spanish State. In fact, this unit is 17 points above the average of the European Union countries in the Spanish case. In that same report, the European Commission was very critical of the energy dependence of our country, but also of the fulfilment of the targets set for renewable energy, especially electricity prices. That's what the European Commission was saying. Literally, it was established, ditamined this report, which Spain needs to assess whether its policies are effective enough to materialize its objectives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u59	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u60	...in the field of renewable energy. We must remember in this regard that the objective of 2020 is that our country produces or has a gross consumption of 20% based on clean energy. Well, we are too far from fulfilling that 2020 goal when it is obviously not enough time to reach that date. The great energy dependence on imported fossil fuels is therefore very large and therefore a problem of economic dimensions, but also – and above all – a problem of serious environmental and ecological dimensions, which has consequences not only for our country, but, as we all know, for the whole planet. In the face of the past celebration of the Paris climate summit, scientists from all over the world warned that fighting climate change and reducing polluting emissions to the atmosphere were much more than an objective of ecological romantics, but rather an obligation to the survival of the planet. But the case is that the consequences of an energy model like the one in our country are not only environmental, they are not only macroeconomic, but they also have dramatic consequences for families and individuals. In Galicia there are 100,000 families who suffer from energy poverty and it is estimated that 800 Welsh and Welsh die each year because of this problem. There are half a million Welsh and Welsh people who spend more than 10% of all their annual revenues on energy spending. This is the reality that people live on the street. What's going on? What's happening while all this is happening? For while the rest of Europe is developing regulations according to European directives that advocate the promotion of self-consumption as a means of realising this momentum of renewable energy, energy efficiency, the reduction of greenhouse gases, the improvement of the economy of people, small and medium-sized enterprises, while all this is happening in the European environment, the Spanish State, the People's Party, has initiated a real, genuine hunt, a true crusade against the type of production of renewable energy, against the production of clean energy. And this crusade is realized in a royal decree, the Royal Decree of Self-Consumption, passed last October, and which in practice has as its only objective – we cannot understand it otherwise – to close any door to the realization of self-consumption projects, establishing economic barriers, but also administrative barriers, which block any real possibility of the future for this sector. The real decree prevents private users from covering for energy surpluses; more importantly, the owners of a self-consumption facility are obliged in practice to give away their surpluses. And it turns out that the Spanish State is practically the only one in our environment that doesn't compensate for the energy poured into the network. The royal decree keeps the known as "the sun tax", which is nothing other than a revolutionary tax for renewed and self-consumed energy, without it ever coming to be poured into the network at any time. It also establishes the royal decree charges associated with the maintenance of the electrical system. Sets very important sanctions for not registering your installations to the Consumer Log. The real decree actually violates the European Internal Market Directive by not considering the benefits for the system of self-consumption installations. Not only are these benefits considered here, but the benefits for the system set are penalized in practice. I want the European Renewables Directive, which obliges states to apply non-discriminatory and simplified standards to favour small projects and distributed generation, which now need in addition to important, costly and truly far-sighted procedures. I wanted the European Energy Efficiency Directive, which requires the abolition of incentives for tariffs that undermine energy efficiency and prevent consumers from participating in demand management. In this same directive it is urgent not to allow the abuse of dominant position in distributors, which, of course, is a more obvious fact in our country, where there is a position of real domination and true oligopolie of distributors and energy companies. We are ultimately – and summarizing – in the face of a real decree that is absolutely irrational – it does not benefit anyone – it is absolutely antidemocratic, it is truly confiscatery, absolutely arbitrary, but, above all, it is a real decree that is deeply unfair and abusive. And in this context it is being insisted on in this House – also in Parliamentary committee – on the obligation of the German Government not to remain impatient in the face of this obviously unjust fact, in the face of a real absolutely abusive decree. It cannot be a passive viewer of the destruction of a sector which, in addition, has a very important potential for the creation of wealth and employment and with as many benefits as possible, of developing, in social and environmental matters. That's what any sensible government should do, not turn its back on renewable energies, and of course enable self-consumption. That's why we put forward this non-law proposal. We present it for the German Government to exaggerate the Government of the State from the Royal Decree of Self-Consumption. But that's not enough. We believe that there must be a new regulatory framework and therefore an alternative, a regulatory alternative which ensures that simplified administrative procedures are established for self-consumption facilities and also for small productions, which ensures the elimination of back-up fees, which provides for different compensation mechanisms in time between production and consumption, and which promotes the realization of an independent audit that determines the actual cost for net-balance-based production-consumption cases. We believe that these initiatives – this initiative, in particular – and these measures are to be complied with by the Government of Greece if there remains a minimum of criterion and a minimum of rationality. We therefore hope that it will be supported by the House's groups, but above all by the majority group. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Vázquez. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u62	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The Royal Decree of Self-Consumption, what we can assert, is that it has not disappointed anyone, giving and content – as expected – the electric oligopolie, betting for an energy policy totally opposed to a more just and socially responsible society on which the future is based on environmental sustainability. This royal decree does not drive renewable energies. From the point of view of industry professionals and potential consumers, this royal decree does not in any way encourage the use of renewable energy. The royal decree applies to all modes of self-consumption; in Article 2 it makes it clear: "The provisions of this royal decree apply to installations connected inside a network, although they do not display energy to the transport and distribution network at any moment." The immediate derivative is that from now on the process of legalization will be more expensive and above all much more bureaucratic. In addition, for self-consumption installations up to a maximum of 100 kilowatts, it must have the same supply point as all generation installations. This is one of the most controversial aspects of the royal decree, as it blocks the possibility of having, for example, a photovoltaic installation of self-consumption in a community of neighbors that feeds the homes of each neighbor. In order to begin the processing procedure, it is necessary to request a point of connection to the electrical company, even if no surplus of electrical production will be poured into it. And, of course – as the AGE spokesman said – the sun tax. All self-consumption facilities must pay the revolutionary tax for generated and self-consumed energy, without this being carried out at any time by the power distribution network. The sun tax is actually the sum of two concepts that must be paid for self-consumed energy, that is, by the energy that you yourself generate in your own installation and which you consume without going out at any time of the same. These charges with charges associated with the costs of the electrical system, which appear in Article 17, which shall bear the costs of the electrical system which are not transport and distribution of energy. That is, among others – according to Article 13 of Law 24/2013, of the remuneration of renewable energies – the over-cost of electricity production in Balearic Islands and Canary Islands, payments to pay for thermal power plants that support the system when there are points of demand, nuclear waste management, nuclear moratorium, remuneration to FNMOC, etc., etc. And other charges for other services of the system collected in Article 18 as paid for by the support function that the electrical system set performs to enable the application of self-consumption, which is already included in the support that gives thermal power plants – capacity payments – and which is charged again in this concept. In addition, Article 9 of Law 24/2013, which provides that all consumers will be obliged to contribute to the costs and services of the system for self-consuming energy and will be obliged to pay the same fees for access to networks, associated charges and system costs for the provision of support services as well as all others, although they are not covered by the same self-consumption scheme. It's obvious: for the consumer he's not paying the same charges associated with the cost of the system, since the royal decree obliges consumers to pay for the energy not bought from the electricity company, some charges that in no case should the rest of the consumers pay. It's not normal that if there's no consumption, if you pay for consumption, it's not logical, it's a robbery, a real robbery, to prevent and put all possible obstacles to energy generation by consumers themselves. Finally, a royal decree that goes against the sustainable and healthy future and only favours the interests of the electric oligopolie, which will pay the favors by activating the rotating door that allows comfortable and well paid retreats from public political life. Let us hope that a change of government in the state will allow the radical modification of this energy policy and end with the turning doors. I will therefore vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal of the Glaga Alternative. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u64	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative is indeed the withdrawal of the real decree, which has been debated in this House and also in the 6th Commission of Industry, which regulates the supply of electricity with self-consumption and the production of self-consumption. Indeed, it is a real decree that has been adopted with 200,000 signatures against, 40,000 claims, all sectors linked to the field of self-consumption and energy production, energy saving, environmental associations and consumers against. This real decree is what it deprives of is the possibility of that self-consumption which means energy saving, efficiency in the bigger networks and a reduction in prices on the market. All the opposite, indeed, of what they say or what the big electricians say, who were the promoters justly that the net balance had not been approved and that this so-called "sun tax" had been introduced, which, as it is well called in the initiative, is called "background fee". Indeed, we believe that regulation would be necessary, even regulation as is done in other autonomous communities, from the autonomous community itself. We have an opportunity within the deadline of amendments, in which the ILP is already being taken into account with regard to the electricity tariff in Greece and energy poverty. I think it will be a time for the rapporteurs in that law to be able to also include and debate about the self-consumption or regulation that we must make of it, even of possible subsidies to self-consumption. I would like to remind you that both the Balearic Islands and the Valencian Community, as well as Navarre, and Guipúscoa's own Deputies, or even in Andalusia, Aragon, at a lower level, there are aids to promote self-consumption, so that we can find ourselves in Galicia assuming it acritically, without putting any grip on this real decree. Even in all areas of the process of this royal decree Galicia remained silent and said nothing about it. There is no promotion of self-consumption, and every time we bring the debate to this House an initiative on self-consumption, because the People's Party votes against. We will indeed support this initiative from the Nationalist Block in Wales. We believe that it is necessary to repeal this royal decree. We believe it is necessary to establish a net balance regime in relation to people, to self-consumption clusters, to those people who are promoting this more efficient, more ecological and more democratic way of energy production, but we also believe that it is necessary for Galicia to establish its own regulation and also for a system of subsidies to promote self-consumption. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u65	Thank you very much, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I want to start, after the President's intervention, saying that I'm not an entrepreneur of any sector, I'm a public officer in an opposition called up at the BOE, I don't need to make a yellow union that I then dissolved once I was an official, and therefore I think I'm perfectly qualified to talk about practically any subject affecting public interest in this Parliament. [[Applause]] It's true that I'm also emotionally recovering from the change in economic paradigm. The industry was good, the primary sector launched and the occupation, the membership of Social Security, everything was better than Spain. Official data say we grow by 33% less than the Spanish set. I would really like someone to be able to explain here – the president, the relevant advisors or the spokespersons in the economic sphere of the People's Group – how this can be explained, because I insist that my limited economic knowledge prevents me from understanding what are the mechanisms at the bottom of this issue. I know what the mechanism is: first-order political lie. Neither the German industry is better than the Spanish industry, nor the labour market is better than the Spanish labour market, nor the Greek primary sector is better than the Spanish primary sector, and therefore we follow exactly in the PP: advertising and propaganda. That is exactly where we are, ladies and gentlemen. With regard to this initiative, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will support it, among other things, because we were carrying in our electoral programme in our last general elections a topic, a wording very similar to that proposed by the Alternative Left Galicia and, above all, because at this time of political negotiations at the level of the Government of Spain, in the proposal of government presented by the Socialist Party to the rest of the left-wing groups in the Congress of Deputies, there is a paragraph that says exactly – and I want to transfer it to what it is in the act –: "Reform" – has translated on the march – "the Royal Decree 900/2015, which regulates the modalities of supply of electricity with self-consumption and self-production, including the so-called "Sunset", and adopt instead a stable regulatory framework for electrical self-consumption and small-scale generation in the net-balance mode." So we're all talking about it. I really hope that this group will be receptive to this in the Greek Parliament, and I hope other groups at the state level. In fact, this real self-consumption decree, well, because it is the last step in the energy reform of the People's Party, an energy reform that defended the interests we all know, the interests of UNESA, of the large power-producing companies. By the way, the Socialist Party doesn't say it, they said all the economic agents who participate in the generation, distribution and consumption of energy, except the big power companies and the People's Party. I insist and wish to repeat this: everyone, absolutely all the economic agents who participate in the entire process of production, distribution and energy consumption, except the members of UNESA and the People's Party. It's also true that it was difficult to expect something else. What is regrettable, since the Greek Parliament, is the complicit, absolutely detestable silence of the German Government in the face of this attack. Because this attack, essentially on renewables, beyond the second step that was exactly self-consumption, was an attack on a strategic sector in the economy of Galicia. As has already been said here, the wind sector has actually been dismantled, not only in terms of energy production, which is also – it is an objective and statistical fact – but also in an industrial fabric with a high level of research and innovation, in which we had a very consolidated leading position, not only in Spain, but in Europe as a whole. All of this is in the process of disappearance. Mr. Conde says nothing, Mr. President of the Board says nothing, and unfortunately we continue to move in this absolute indefinition. That's right, advertising and propaganda continue. In the last response to this parliamentary group given in relation to the investments envisaged in the Juncker Plan, it is said – it is written – that, without cutting anything at all, that one of the four areas – four, define four priority areas and one of them for Galicia in the investments of the Juncker Plan – are renewable energies. I'd like someone to tell me – and I'll ask you in Commission 6th at the time – that someone told me exactly that these priority lines of action are being implemented, because we're losing positions in Spain as a whole in terms of wind power production, they're losing jobs in the mechanical metal sector linked to renewables constantly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u67	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u68	... –Fixed, Mr President – and, therefore, I don't know exactly where those priorities are. I know where other priorities are: the priorities of the 25% increase in the dividends of large electricity companies and the increase in the profits of large electricity companies in 2015, above 5%, in a zero inflation scenario. This is where the priorities of those that they say to govern for all and for all are those that support, with an accomplice silence, – I insist – this self-consumption decree. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u69	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Losada, after working twenty-three years in the private company as an employee, I hope you do not consider me unauthorized to speak also from this rostrum. [[Murmurs.]] I wanted to say that for the first time a government of the state establishes a regulatory regulation of the generation, distributed of necessity, the so-called self-consumption, which was previously in an alleged situation. It is true that this regulation has already been promised by other governments before, but it is also true that they have been dorks and have never been able to develop it. So from an administrative point of view, we have a rule that eliminates uncertainties, indefinitions and legal insecurity. In the economic aspect we have to say that this is a prudent decree, that a market is needed in the current context of the electricity sector, in which it is essential to maintain environmental sustainability, but also a security of supply and also to be competitive. And in that sense, the decisions made by the Ministry in the last legislation seem to have been quite appropriate. You see, at the beginning of the year 12, the structural tariff deficit that was planned for that year was EUR 7 billion. The really obtained at the end of the year, 5,600 million euros. By 2013, 10.500 million deficits were planned, and the result was 3,400. By 2014 other 10,500 were planned again, and the real result was 600 million euros of surplus. If he's not worth the tariff deficit, let's go to the bill. See, between 2008 and 2011 the electricity bill increased by 67%. And between 2013 and 2014 it dropped by 8.5%. This is the result. Yes, yes, it is published in Spanish Electric Network. But by focusing on self-consumption, we have to distinguish clearly two types: a self-consumer, which generates the electricity he consumes, and which is not connected to the power grid; it only has to pay the cost of the investment, it has to pay for nothing else; it does not pay the energy cost, it does not pay the electricity tax, it does not pay fees, it does not pay transportation or distribution, nor does it pay any other kind of costs. Another thing is the high consumer, which is connected to the network, that is, he's using the electrical system, and therefore he must pay like any other consumer by the power hired. For this modality, it is curious that a new "sun tax" is spoken of. That remains very well said in other forums, but here, in the House, I believe that we must be more rigorous and precise in our words. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Royal Decree 900/2015 does not create any new taxes at all. They are given exactly the same treatment to the rest of the consumers. I'll explain. See, in the electrical system there are two large cost groups: variable costs, mainly derived from the energy consumed, and fixed costs, mainly from the fees and transport networks. You are asking for this initiative to eliminate part of these fixed costs to self-consumption, even knowing that behind renewable energies there has to be a backup technology in case at any time the system falls because it does not blow up the wind or it does not warm up the sun. And who then pays these system costs? Well, no doubt the rest of the self-consumers, sorry, the rest of the consumer. The rest of the consumers without self-consumption would be subsidizing the consumption facilities. We would undoubtedly fall back into the mistakes of the past. Do you remember when the more the wind blew or the more the sun warmed the more the electricity was fueled by the system of premiums that there was? Well, with this measure, how much more electricity is produced by the highest self-consumption method would be the price of electricity for the rest of consumers in general. So we can't share a measure that requires a transfer of income from one consumer to another.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u71	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u72	That's not what the electrical system is for, ladies, but what the tax system is for. As I have already said, this is a prudent decree, by the current situation of the electric bubble, with much more supply than demand. And, of course, we consider that it is likely to improve, as it has already manifested to them the Council of Galicia in commission. But this improvement we think you have to go on your way to compensate for the energy consumed with the energy poured into the net, the known net balance. So this decree must be a starting point, and it must be to improve, we can't admit it is to derogate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u73	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u74	...that that would mean a return to a situation of authenticity and uncertainty in the sector. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. Santos. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u76	Well, by trying not to lose the ability to surprise, we're going to tell you, Mr. Santos, that when you say that self-consumption projects have to have the same treatment as the rest of the consumers have to deal with, I disagree deeply, because if what you're trying to push these kinds of projects, they can't have the same treatment, they'll have to have some incentive mechanism, they'll have to have a policy framework that favors them to develop. But I do not say so, that is what the European regulations say; they are binding on the Spanish State. And secondly, you say that the system is not to favor the transfer of resources from one consumer to another. No, no, no, no. The system is to favor the transfer of user resources to large power plants, which is what the current system is for. Because what is obvious, what is obvious, what cannot be denied, is that self-consumption is good for our country's accounts and balance, the trade balance in a country that is absolutely dependent on fossil fuels: oil and gas. It's good for users, in an economic crisis where many people can't afford to pay their electric bill. 10% of the wages of many Greeks, half a million Greeks, goes for energy expenditure; self-consumption would obviously benefit many families, with clean and sustainable energy. It's good for the environment. This is obvious. It's good, therefore, for the general interest, not to harm anyone. I'm self-adjusted, yes, it harms someone. It harms the big electrics, those electrics where the boards of administration are enlarged by the charges of the People's Party. We have former President Aznar as advisor in Endesa; we have former Minister Acebes at the Iberdrola Board of Directors; we have the husband of the Secretary General of the PP, Mrs. Cospedal, in Iberdrola; we have Antonio Hernández Mancha in Enagas; we have Rodolfo Martín Villa in Endesa; we have Marcelino Oreja, son of a European Energy Commissioner in Enagas; Ana Palacio in Enagas; Isabel Tocino in Enagas... Finally, the list is absolutely endless. It's not that there are spin door cases in the People's Party, that the People's Party is in itself a spin door. It is, as the song of Xil Ríos said, it is like a milling stone, which rolls and rolls, but crushes, not only the citizenry, of course, that goes wrong, but it crushes the economy of our country. Yes, because this has dramatic consequences for Galicia too, where, as clearly stated here, renewable energies are potentially, they could be a truly strategic sector that would soon improve the field of innovation and technology, which is very much in need of investment in our country. There are dates – and with this ending – that went to Galicia from all over the U.S. who were embezzled by photovoltaic energy, which were damaged by this normative change of the People's Party. There are approximately 2,500 families affected by this issue, where, with a predictable regulatory framework and on the basis of EU directives, they have invested a lot of resources and they will now be lost. And all this, as in the case of the preference, with the complicity of the People's Party. Nothing else. I appreciate the support of the rest of the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u77	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and seven other Members, on the launching by the Government of Galicia of a market program in the Way of Santiago
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u78	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u79	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you, ladies and gentlemen. Well, once again the People's Parliamentary Group is presenting in this House a bill that has to do with tourism and trade, precisely to take advantage of the synergies between these two economic sectors of our economy, the tourism sector and the commercial sector, but focused on local trade. Galicia's latest tourist data consolidate this sector as strategic and as one of the drivers of economic recovery. Thus, in 2015 we reached a maximum history in housed travellers, generating half a million new travellers in relation to 2014, 12% more. If we talk about international tourists, we get back to historic peaks, both in travellers and overnights, overcoming these, the overnights, the barrier of 2 million. And if we talk about the national market, we've reached the highest figure of the last five years, with 3.3 million national tourists, accumulating three consecutive years of growth. The Way of Santiago is the oldest route of pilgrimage in Europe, as well as the most competitive route, with an unquestionable historical and cultural value, in the same way as the capacity that it has to contribute to socio-economic growth in the places it goes through. If we look at the figures of pilgrims and pilgrims approaching Santiago de Compostela in these years of this last legislation – as there is no Holy Year, I took these, which can distort the figures, in this last legislation – we see that they increase over 12% in 2013 and more than 10% in the years 14 and 15, and at the total count of the legislation the arrival of pilgrims increased by more than 36%, reaching 262.515 in the last year. And the trend follows, ladies and gentlemen, because during the past January we received 1,304 more pilgrims, that is, 7% more than in January 15 and 12% more than in the previous Holy Year of 2010. These figures can be found by all of you at the Pilgrim's Reception Office. So, having analyzed these figures, taking advantage of the synergies that this important arrival of pilgrims, of both national and international tourists, is essential for the economic sectors in general and for local trade in particular. In fact, many rural nuclei and many municipalities through the road benefit directly or indirectly from their impact on aspects such as population fixation, creation of new companies, generation of jobs and growth of productive sectors. Trade is one of the most important activities for the development of our towns and cities, not only because of its contribution to GDP and its employment, but also because of its social impact, as well as the capacity to increase the attractiveness and dynamism of cities. Within trade, outposts occupy a prominent place as engines to dynamize the proximity trade, and it is increasing the capacity that they have to generate other complementary activities around them, generating in turn wealth and employment. In recent times markets and squares are reaching a new position on the market, attracting customers, visitors, cooks and experts from the best gastronomy and looking for formulas to reinvent and position themselves as leaders in the sale of perishable product. Values such as quality, proximity and customer care, which are market-owned, as well as the professionalism of pleasures and pleasures, make our range markets an effective channel of marketing and the best escape from the quality Greek product, the ideal space to show the best that our rivers offer, our gardens, our livestock and our producers, who work with this excellent raw material and which is impossible to pass unnoticed to visitors or pilgrims. Given the steady increase of pilgrims passing through the Way of Santiago, Galician markets can and should be set up as a reference point for the best product and the knowledge to make Welsh. Without any doubt, the Greek markets on the Way will offer pilgrims a plus they will only find in Galicia, and, in turn, the Way can offer to the squares a tool for dynamizing and capturing new customers. Precisely, the dynamization of the activity and the capture of new visitors and customers, especially among the younger people, were one of the many needs that have emerged in the past November at the future market meeting the professionals of the sector, meeting which brought together both practitioners and practitioners, representatives of the municipalities of Galicia, to exchange their experiences, analyze their strengths and weaknesses in our markets, essential work for the development of the excellent market plan, by the mandate of this Parliament, which will soon be presented. And that's why this parliamentary group urges the Galician Union, through this non-law proposal, to put in place a market programme on the Way that is able to take advantage of the opportunities that the Santiago Way can generate for small producers and traders in the range squares and markets of the municipalities that pass through. I look forward to voting in favour of all the groups, because what is meant by this initiative is not only to contribute to the dynamism of the range squares, which is their main objective, but also to the knowledge of Galicia's products and gastronomy. And this, although it seems secondary, is not, ladies and gentlemen, since gastronomy is the second reason why we are chosen as fate, the second reason why we are chosen as fate. In fact, by analyzing tourist data at Spanish level, of the 60 million tourists visiting us, 9.5 made them motivated by gastronomy. This is data from 2004, which they know has been increasing in 2015. The average expenditure of the gastronomic tourist is EUR 1,125 per stay, above the normal tourist. Therefore, for our community, for Galicia, it is important to capture this kind of tourist. On the other hand, with this initiative it is also intended to offer pilgrims services that complement their experience on the Way, creating links between the pilgrim and local products of Greece, informing the markets about our products, the best local products in the area, even giving those who believe their condition as a pilgrim with a small sample, marketing products or lots of products specially designed for pilgrims both by their quantity, weight and energy value, and creating a merchandising, a packaging, which links the Way to the markets of range and markets and the quality of the product. And finished, gentlemen, bearing in mind that the pilgrim, who is the soul of the Way, is his best prescriber and ambassador, and must work to make his experience as satisfactory and relevant as possible. And bearing in mind that with this initiative we have contributed to dynamizing markets and municipalities for which the Way of Santiago passes, I hope to count on the positive vote of all groups. I am very grateful to many of the Members – the faces I see them – but I am not ashamed to be a small business entrepreneur, and this is very important for the business sector and for the business of proximity. Show him by voting in favour of this initiative. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u82	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This non-law proposal just presented to us by the People's Party on a market programme on the Way we understand that it is quite pretentious and indefinite. The increase of people who travel the Way and Santiago is undoubtedly, for the different reasons that it is, more prominent in recent years, without following the fashion of coming to Compostela in the Holy Year. All these people present will agree in the cultural capital that represents this Way, reversing our entire geography with the different routes that enter Galicia, going to confluence Santiago. But this significant increase in pilgrimage meant a challenge for this country, which, at the moment, did not know how to update itself to the demands of this pilgrimage. The times have changed and the profile of the people coming is not the same as 20 or 10 years ago. A transformation of how to communicate and move has occurred. The reason for the trip is still for religious reasons, in its large percentage, and this feature must be taken into account in order to address ourselves to a much wider audience. The discovery of our land must foster the experience of the five senses, in interaction with the environment and citizenship. We have just obtained last year from the North and the Primitive Ways the distinction of humanity's heritage, which is added to what the French Way already has in the year 93. It's the recognition of the history of these ancient roads of the origin and the phenomenon of Jacob. And we are committed to protecting, disseminating and valuing the arteries that carry the Compostela. In recent times the Way is despised, and we say it in a prominent way, because this will influence everything that's related to it. There is news of the lack of security of the hundreds of pilgrims who daily travel on different routes, and this is the responsibility of the Union. However, complaints are increasing. Road safety problems are great, especially because in many sections they pass through the road. The security of people, the improvement of facilities, thefts, little or no signage and the offer of hostels fulfilling obsolete minimum services. Providing backends for these services is a job that is pending. To all this we also add the modification of parts of traces on the Way in recent times, following a more historical and documented approach, but these changes do not welcome the populations affected, because they fear that they will impact on several of their businesses. Last year the so-called Plan Director and Strategic Plan of the Way of Santiago was put into operation until the year 21, which has its goals – and I note – to promote social cohesion and territorial balance. And for that one should take into account some of the studies of rural populations where the Way passes, and I say French Way, which is the most transited, because it collects the data from the last decade, even if it goes further, over the last fifteen years, that the effect of the Way is not enough to reverse the declining trend of the population. In most of this territory, the fall in the weight of agriculture and other primary activities has resulted in the depopulation of rural areas. Sustainable tourism, to which we add other activities, such as market creation, should be one of the exits of the rural environment, an instrument for development, tourism, both for people from outside and for people from within. It seeks to complement, diversify and increase alternatives to these incomes in rural populations. The proposal for market creation on the Way could open up the possibility of promoting our land. It will be necessary to define the objectives well and to enhance in this case the sale of indigenous products against foreign and oligopolie products, marking the difference with fairs that we have found throughout the territory, and to move away from the homogenized image of globalization, which nullifies the characteristics of this land. Our local products should include quality certificates, designations of origin – of habelas – to offer them both to pilgrims and to other types of tourism, as well as to the inhabitants of Galicia. And on this plan or creation of these markets we still have many doubts, because where would they be held, in which municipalities, in which centres of population or not? We understand that for a good identification of this badge is very important the choice of space, and, following a little with the tradition of so-called traditional markets, today practically disappeared, we should take advantage of the popular architectures on the Way, the towns themselves, their historic helmets and also other existing installations, such as can be the square of range, or even the possibility of...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u84	...rehabilitating constructions and endowments of specific functions. We do not know what criteria will continue to implement this in the territory – if it will be with the help of the municipalities, of the deputies – we do not know the periodicity of them. We don't know if they intend to faithfulize visits to physical spaces in places of production or demonstration on their own markets. We don't know what economic resources, to get us an idea of the scope of this proposal. What we do know is that these markets in the Way should have an integrative character, where they should be combined with other heritage, artistic, ethnographic and material, and natural, and professionalize all the agents involved, because it is a revolutionary to punish the economic activity of rural areas, causing depopulation. And I'm sorry to tell you that we're not going to support this non-law proposal, which we're presenting with the substitution amendment, well, that you've already got all of them.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández, thank you. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor Mr Gallego Lumba.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u86	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. Once again, the People's Party brings us in, plays one of these proposals in which it always makes a gala and is also a slogan already totally proposed by it, which is: PP, advertising and propaganda. Mrs. Romero, I really don't understand anything about this initiative unless it's because the People's Party wants to once again cover its share. You have the right to present the initiatives you want and you want, I don't want them. But look, let's see. Programs. You have a plan to boost trade, a comprehensive plan for tourism in Galicia, a strategic plan for the way in Santiago, an ICT development plan, and you have the last one, which is the strategic plan in Galicia. And look, one thing: in all these plans if you talk about it, in all of them, and in addition, it's more, in everyone you see this – that they're not bringing any more, I have them there in my seat and I don't bring them here – the Galician Tourism Plan. Consider the initiative you have, in the Galician Tourism Plan contains this, the Santiago Way Action Plan, which you have just presented. Not long ago. This is a section that says: dynamization of the Greek trade. We support commercial establishments with German products, crafts and so on, for value-added and revitalization of the markets of abaskets. Moreover, you see that the day of an order on December 22, 2015, with approved budgets already approved in 2016, the DOG has already published to present all the municipalities for grants and aid for market improvements. Why do you bring that initiative? What's this initiative coming to? Because it is here in the DOG, already published the order, which says: the dynamization and revitalization of open shopping centres and its adaptation to its contour to create comfortable spaces and leisure and more dynamizing the regeneration of the markets and markets squares. But you're putting the government's debt in this case because they don't do it? If so, say it, but it makes no sense to take any initiative, because it is already published in the DOG and deadlines have already been opened for all the municipalities that they want, and so on, all those who want, the municipalities of Galicia. Because I don't know what criteria you're going to use for the Paths. Again, they only do politics based on the Santiago Way, tourism policy. It's a serious mistake. It's based only on the Way, which also has to do with the Path, and not on the Path, but on everyone. And here I presented a amendment – which I will talk about – where I say are the Ways of Santiago, not the Way, that are for everyone, that controls the quality of products that are labelled as the products of the Greek that sell themselves and especially those of craftsmanship. In addition, we present an amendment for everyone, all markets, not only on the Way of Santiago, on the French Way, but on all the Ways, to contemplate. If you want to do it, do it for everyone, because you have to have some criteria, not just the criterion of doing it for something, and above all that products are of Greek quality, those that sell themselves and those that sell themselves to pilgrims. But look, I tell you that the pilgrims, of course, the Ways and the pilgrimage, is fine, but it's not the tourists I think they're going to consume or stop in the markets to buy or do that. It's good to enhance what the city halls or squares are or the people where the Ways pass, but I really don't understand why you introduced this initiative, because you have it in all the plans – and it's a few corners – that you have approved in this legislation and in the previous on tourism and on Galician trade. Of course, if we accept the amendment, we will vote in favour; otherwise, we will vote against it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u87	Thank you, Mr. Gallego Lumba. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor for the Parliamentary Group on Alternative Left Galega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u88	Well, good morning to all and all. Once again an initiative that mixes what is a cultural heritage asset of humanity like the Way of Santiago, located in the laws of the market through the tourism of travellers, through the increase of pilgrims, mixing the two categories that have nothing to do with, but nothing, and then, as I know perfectly well that I have an anti-capitalist ideology and that they are of left and communist tendency, because I said: well, we're going to reason a little about this initiative and we're going to see what it says. And then I took the three fragments: ability to contribute to the socio-economic growth of the territories that it goes through, many rural nuclei and many municipalities benefit from population fixing, creation of new jobs, generation of jobs, creating wealth, economic growth, employment, moving forward in competitiveness. Well, a literature – we know – perfectly ideological and worthy of the People's Party. So what I did was just analyze those three parameters: fixing population and work and businesses as well. As a chronological limit, I took the year 2000 and 2015, fifteen years, which all have an impact in addition to marking as the maximum expression – precisely just made it the spokesperson of the PP – on the arrival of pilgrims to Compostela through the different itineraries, especially the French itinerary, which is the most relevant. Well, taking all the most important populations, especially twelve populations, from Pedrafita to Santiago, I decided to analyze the population fixation parameter. Well, in all these localities, in all, except in Sarria and Santiago de Compostela, there has been curiously produced in these fifteen years an accused population decline, in all these twelve localities. That is, in Pedrafita because 511 inhabitants were logically lost; in Samos, 732; in Palas de Reis, 842; in Melide, which is curiously where the confluence of the Primitive Way with the French is produced, because 903 inhabitants are lost. The only ones who win are Sarria and Santiago, and very few, very few. As you all know, Compostela has only won 1,709 inhabitants from 2000 to 2015, yet not exceeding the barrier of 100,000. So first conclusion: Santiago's Way does not contribute to fixing population in the localities, giving rise to a general loss. The second parameter is employment. I took the IGE data systematically from 2000 to the latest updated reference. And, curiously, none of them, but none of them, none of them produce an increase in employment. Not only is there an increase in employment, but there is an alleged increase in unemployment, unemployment. And if we take the business parameter, we see that almost all companies created in these localities or that are listed in these localities have no employees or, at most, two employees. That's the reality of setting population, job and business parameters. You mix, you use neoliberal literature, you use economic discourse, to say that Santiago's Way produces added value, and the added value is not, it's not, it's not, it's not shown with the data. The Way of Santiago, logically, knows a growth – very interesting – of pilgrims, who travel with a motivation that of course is not the one you sit down when you want to do everything possible to place them under the rule of market law. The pilgrims come as they come. If you take a backpack and walk the French Way from Roncesvalles, you'll know perfectly well that you can't take useless weights and that consumption is done at the nearest place and, if there's a fair and market, well, and if you agree that you don't, no. Trade fairs and markets have them in all the localities of the Way of Santiago, but to supply their own population, because logically they have their own circuit through the surpluses that are being created in the field itself, in the county, in the area. I mean, we understand that you want to do everything possible to place as the only mantra that have as a relationship between tourism and success for the Junta de Galicia the Way of Santiago, but the Way of Santiago obeys different connotations, and you should meet the cultural parameters, which we talked about yesterday with the Law of Cultural Heritage, where the Way of Santiago, far from being all the attention it should be, because it is quite neglected...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u90	...in essential issues such as signage, hostels, etc. So this initiative will not count on the support of AGE, because we understand that we cannot mix parameters and say that there is a cause-effect relationship between the Way of Santiago and population growth, job creation and business creation, when the data clearly show that it is not. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u91	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. You have the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u92	Good morning. And good morning to the people who accompany us from the rostrum. At the BNG we believe that a sector such as the one in Greek trade, because it generates a large number of jobs, deserves to be taken initiatives with the aim of preserving it and potential – we have said it on more than one occasion – and we do so because from the perspective of the defence of Galicia's economic interests boosting the Greek trade sector, because it effectively means boosting employment and economic development. And because we also believe in issues that you put here at the initiative, in the synergies that can be generated between the different economic sectors, and that there are many possibilities for cooperation between sectors. We also agreed on those issues. And we also have very clear that a bet by Galicia's commercial sector means quite the opposite of betting on the domain of the large surface sector, which means a lower presence of own products. I mean, all the opposite of what the People's Party has done. The defence of the Greek trade is to go against the commercial model which the People's Party has waged, and by all the legislative measures that both the Government of the State and the Government of the German Government have put in place and which is totally in the opposite direction of the issues raised by this initiative. And it's obvious that in the BNG we clearly bet on a traditional Greek structure of small trade. And then there are issues that are more than obvious. That Galicia has the highest quality products is something more than obvious, it's a known and recognized fact: fish, seafood, meat, wine, milk, craftsmanship. What do you need to value? We also agreed. What is needed for institutions to become promoters of local food markets and local products? We fully agree that we have to. That the implication implies a clear bet of the institutions? It is clear that we must do so, and that governments and public authorities can and must play a decisive role in boosting food markets, and neighbouring markets, for a whole range of unquestionable advantages. What we no longer agree with is the smoke curtains that the People's Party has used to us, bringing here initiatives that have little to do with their political practice. Because, Mrs. Romero, frankly, we haven't approved the June 2016 budgets in just two months. They missed a great opportunity to include in those budgets this plan that now brings us here, and to set off budget, because making plans and bringing them here, or publishing them and advertising them in the media, is pretty easy; now, putting economic games and making and setting deadlines for that to be done, looks like the People's Party doesn't know about it anymore. Look, I'm going to tell you one thing: the People's Party since 2009, in which it returned to the Government of the Union, has cut the budget in trade in more than 22 million euros, more than 22 million euros in a budget not too wide. In 2009 the budget for trade was EUR 35,224,000, it turns out that in 2016 it dropped to EUR 13,142,000. I could tell you, it was 2010, 31 million; 2011, 20 million; 12, 21 million; at 13 they dropped to 18 million; at 14 to 15; at 15 to 13; and this year, in a context that you wanted to sell as an expansive budget, where you already want to sell the idea that the crisis has ended, even in that context, trade budgets are down, trade budgets come down, and it turns out that you are brought here because an initiative without budget, without deadlines, to show a theoretical concern for a sector and for synergies between small trade, among producers, those producers who have both doomed bread and water, those producers who have finished them, both in milk and in the garden, and in all other sectors, who don't worry about them. We can talk about the sea sector, which is accompanying us today in the gallery for an initiative that comes next. How much concern does the People's Party have for enhancing the products of the sea? None. And it turns out that it brings us an initiative for those who make the Way of Santiago – I suppose it will be to put in the backpack pounds of fish, potatoes and cheese – because they have a network of trades of the Way. Obviously – I said at first – the BNG bet on traditional Greek trade, all of it; by the Greek products, all of it; by developing the productive sectors, absolutely all; by demagogy and the sale of smoke, absolutely none. And I insist: in the budgets they had a chance. They have lowered the budget and voted against all the initiatives, at least those of the BNG, which were for enlargement, improvement or value of certain range squares. They voted against it and it turns out that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u94	...now they come here with a proposal that, well, is fine. They're campaigning already and you'll know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Group author of the non-law proposal, Popular Group, Mrs. Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u96	Thank you very much, President. Well, to see where I start, because, well, it's clear that every time the parliamentary group brings an initiative on trade and tourism to the opposition, it bothers you very much, because they never come with a positive initiative for these two sectors, never. [[Murmurs.]] Let's see, Mr. Fernández, it's not the first time you've arrived, but it's not the first time you've been talking about markets in this House. You have already spoken to the People's Party asking the Government to present a plan of excellent markets, an excellent market plan that has nothing to do with, Mr. Lumba – understand, because you have been here for a long time – with what you are asking for this initiative, which is a specific program for those markets that are on the Way... let me talk, that you have spoken and have not said anything, and you have not said anything. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The excellent market plan is motivated to create a quality brand, quality with vision for the future, because we know that's the only way for markets to distinguish themselves from their competitors and have a choice for the future, because they work with quality product, proximity, and the closest we have is ours, Galicia, we have peculiar markets. I understand, Mrs. Fernández, that you haven't read the pilgrim data, but if you had done a brief study before talking, you'd see that they come not only for religious reasons, but also for cultural reasons, and our gastronomy is part of our culture. Well, our intervention had nothing to do with the amendment he tabled to me. You present me with an amendment where you ask us to deal with the foreign product and agri-food companies. Look, the model of Venezuela, from queues in the supermarkets to get inside and have the empty shelves, is that of the group of Cerna, within the Joint Group, carved out of the group of AGE... that's for you. "I swear to you, Chávez, vote for Maduro." That's your model. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Our model is this: economic growth...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u97	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u98	...down from unemployment, the increase in industrial production index, the increase in social security, the increase in consumer confidence, the increase in business confidence, the fall in taxes, the increase in trade data. The latest trade data reflect a clear recovery of the sector, closed with 4.5% increase over the previous one, the fourth largest community, one point above the state. Something we will be doing well, Your Honor, because taking into account the local market, indeed, from the comprehensive tourism plan, from the plan of impulse to small trade, from the excellent market plan, and now we take another step with the road market programme. I regret your willingness to all the positive talk of small trade, and, Mrs. Prado, thank you for agreeing in everything, but you could save the big surfaces. You know what they did when they ruled. With you it was the biggest closure of local trade that occurred in our autonomous community. In the four years that they ruled, that they didn't get to the five...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u99	Finish up, please, and position yourself on the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u100	...filled Galicia with large surfaces, above all PP governments. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u101	You stand on the amendments, Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u102	I do not accept the amendments, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u103	Okay. Thank you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Galician, be quiet, please. Mr. Ron. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and two other Members, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Galician Parliament of a package of measures to correct the demographic situation of Galicia and to facilitate young people from Greece access to work on their land
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u104	Two amendments were tabled to this initiative, the Joint Group and the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u105	For the defense of the initiative, Mrs. Soneira Tajes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I also want to welcome the people who are in the gallery, and I must confess to them that I, whenever I attend a control session to the President of the Union, have a certain disappointment, because between the reality that the President of the Union tells me and the one that is about me living in my county – in Camarinas – in my territory – in the Costa da Morte – in my family, because I don't know if we've been touched by all the tickets from the draw of depression, emigration, from the demographic crisis, from the economic crisis, if they touched my family, my people and my country. Because it has nothing to do with it. Even – and it's worth the guests we have here today – in all the economic crises, our countryside and our environment, the shellfish, fishing, were always a kind of sponge that absorbed surpluses from sectors in crisis, but it's the first time in Galicia's history that we have less active, in full crisis, in the sea and in the countryside. And the country says it's okay. And I suspect that many of the family members of the people who are in the gallery, and of the many Members who are here in this House, have had to choose to take the suitcase and leave the country, because here they have not found any life projects that are least worthy to build here in their own country. Some data. I must recognise a skill: twist the figures, I don't know anyone who is able to twist the figures in that way, except for the boxes of my people with threads. It's a phenomenon. You see, there's a projection of the IGE. I believe that at this stage we have to close it, because at the end and at the end of all what it publishes, all the studies it does are useless, because the president tells us another reality, which tells us that, of following this rate of population loss in Galicia, for various reasons, but essentially on labour and economic issues, in the middle of this century we are going to be almost one million less inhabitants, and older, and more dependent, and that means, in terms not of having population in the country, but in the model of society and in the economic model, a rather serious problem. And I'll give you some data. Assets – it has been said here before – we have 76,100 less than when Mr Feijóo has acceded to the Government of the Union. The rate of activity, which was already the lowest in Spain, is today two points less, even worse. Busy: 137,800 fewer busy people, who are essential, are the ones who quote so that those who are already close to retirement age have a pension. And to keep that, which was debated here not long ago, to maintain a trade and a minimum of life in the small rural municipalities, 137,800 people less. I'm unemployed. Say what you say, twist what you twist, it's 60,100 more than at that time. The unemployment rate. Here we are, 17,74, and it's a lie, and it's a lie, no, no, I'm going to say it at the end. And a dramatic fact, also about the quality of employment. The full-time workers are today 152,100 less than when Mr. Feijóo has acceded to the presidency of the Union, full-time. And here they have one of the fundamental reasons why people go, you know? And membership of Social Security, we're almost 100,000 less than when the President has acceded to the Government. You know what grows? The number of pensioners. By the way, the lowest pensions in the state, because we have a very high percentage of pensioners in the special regime of the sea and the special agricultural regime, which are the most modest. Therefore, purchasing capacity is from Spain's lowest, and therefore the trade and activity that is related to it all because obviously it has much more modest levels, because the ability to buy is also much lower. Of course, now you add the people who go, the increase in the number of pensioners, and you will see that the difference, this 17, almost 18%, of unemployment rate, would have to add to absolute numbers about 35,000 to 40,000 more people, according to the data that the IGE itself tells us. Why do you tell us? That in 2014 they left Galicia 30,154 people, from which more than 10,000 people did so to foreigners. And this used to be corrected with a phenomenon that was the arrival of immigrants and the return of returned migrants to us, who were in Switzerland, Germany, France, which added, although they did not produce from the economic point of view, but brought pensions from outside. And, of course, among other reasons, today there are many emigrants, some of my family who had thought to come, will no longer come, because he knows that when he comes to pay his pension at the Helvetic Confederation here, Mr. Montoro applies another sage and turns out that he penalizes them for returning capital to Spain fruit of their work, while for those who take economic resources and take them to Switzerland not only not only is he penalized, but an amnesty is made. I mean, this is the world backwards. It's a phenomenon that's not new. In 2012 it started in the province of Pontevedra, where they came out more than they came in, and from there – we don't have data yet from the 2015 IGE – every year, and sustainably, more people from Galicia come in. I don't know who's gonna keep all this. And there's even data already from the first half of last year that the phenomenon not only decreases, but accentuates itself. The president of the board has also said on more than one occasion that in certain matters there is neither right nor left. No, no, no, no. There's management, of course. Do you know where the problems are solved and where the face and policies are seen if they are left or right? In the Official Journal of Galicia. We tabled an amendment in which we proposed to dedicate EUR 10 million to the budgets of the Union to encourage the return of the young people who emigrated as a result of the economic crisis and who are now making their talent available to other countries, in leading and technological sectors. Obviously, as I came from this side of the House, because it seems as if it was an unrealistic thing and it wasn't the story. In the meantime, we have a lot of funds from the European Union that are difficult to justify within deadlines or we have the Igape with absolutely regrettable levels of budget execution. In the meantime, our boys, who formed us here, who were at university and who were trained, are today working in countries that we always take as reference, always, and we do nothing to get them to come. And by the way, I saw the amendment – I will speak after it – of the Popular Group and, frankly, if you believe that what the General Secretariat of Emigration does with an absolutely brown return program, which brings to mind that of the bag tied with a string of what it returns, get it out of the head. We're not talking about that, we're talking about encouraging all the entrepreneurial capacity of these people of ours that had no choice but to go to other autonomous communities of the state, to Europe or to other parts of the world, to come back, to return, and to return with incentives, they don't even have to be completely lost resources. People who don't want documents, what they want to do is they want you to finance viable, innovative, modern projects to develop them here. And if they're young and they found their families here and have their children here, we'll have a chance, and if we don't, we've got it pretty complicated. Our non-law proposal goes around, so that all these people, this potential, this ability, we can recover it. And we ask that all these people, not only those who have gone through the economic crisis, which is fundamental to us, but also to capture the children of the historical emigrants, some of them – which I have said here on more than one occasion – with a lot of economic resources and which are investing in other areas. Here it came out before Venezuela, here Venezuela is used to play tennis, pim pam pum. Look, I was going out one yesterday, yes, from here to here and there to here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yesterday there was a news story in a national newspaper saying that those who came out of Venezuela, the arch billionaires, are staying with the big buildings of a central commercial street in Madrid. Why don't you buy in Galicia? Why are the children of the French Venezuelans with a lot of resources, instead of studying in the Greek universities, starting business projects here, even though they have their roots here, are going to Miami? Sure. Why are we absent from the whole process that is taking place in Cuba? Well, someone's gonna know. Here are countries that have no relationship to the island historically and we, meanwhile, are talking about the sex of angels and losing opportunities. Most gentlemen, you have...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u108	...the ability to approve it, because they have most. But I've already told you on more than one occasion: having the absolute majority doesn't mean having the absolute reason. And here we have a chance to help change the trends that are taking place in Galicia. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u110	Well, welcome the people who are upstairs, because I haven't done it before. Well, to say that I am also the daughter of emigration, of the people who have been expelled and forced to go and get bread outside, right? and, specifically, the Helvetic Confederation. I don't know if this non-law proposition is called "Galiza is not a country for youth," because this tiny parent. We are the first power of the state in emigration of young people prepared to escape the brains. This country has always had a high rate of unemployment among qualified people and especially with university studies in relation to the Spanish State. Before this crisis broke out, the rate of unemployment of Greek university graduates and graduates was 10.6%, compared to the average of the state, which was in 6.76. To this figure we have to add the decline in work of the youth population, 50% since the year 2000. It's estimated that more than 100,000 young Greek girls have emigrated, have been out of our country since 2010. The causes of these outputs we have to look for in the characteristics of the economy itself, unable to offer a job opportunity for its formation, highlighting the precariousness of contracts along with the diminished rights of the working class, the null wage stimulus falling to levels of twenty years ago, the lack of quality employment and the peculiarities of the Galician company, and exacerbated above all by the lack of commitment and the irresponsibility of the Union and employers. All of this causes the skilled labour force to flee for opportunities and work experience, and causes the weakening of the productive potential of this country, which invests in its formation to take advantage of it in other parts of the state or abroad. The 2015 IGE data indicate that of the 332,300 young gales between 16 and 29 years of age, only 34.9 % are busy, 16.5 are stopped and then this remaining 48,6 % are inactive. This dramatic situation increasingly delays the age of emancipation. Our country is at the state queue, with only 34.60% of the populations under 35 who came out of the family home. Job insecurity and low wages negatively affect the fundamental decisions of private life, such as the purchase of a home, the promotion of consumption and the creation of a family, of having children and children. The low birth rate, along with the emigration of youth, further exacerbates the problem of loss and the alarming ageing of the population and also – which is very worrying – the depopulation of rural areas. This hopes for no promising prospects for the sustainability of the Greek economy. According to data from 2014, 70 percent of the population of Galicia live in only 57 municipalities, while just over 100,000 inhabitants live in another 100 municipalities with less than 1,000 inhabitants, which have doubled in the last ten years. Rural and marine Galicia is dying from the reduction in productive activity and also the elimination, especially in rural areas, of social services, such as education, the closure of unit schools or the elimination of personnel, limitations on the health service, closure of administration offices and private entities such as banking, few and poor channels of communication, public transport disappearing and deficiencies in telecommunications. And then strange that this world disappears? The serious situation described here is not solved by policies announced by a bomb, you have to go to the sources of the problem and understand our peculiarities as a people. We must find viable alternatives and foster them, for we have a great natural and cultural heritage that is unexploded, which also requires maintenance and bet on our industry and services to prevent the disappearance of this country. We demand decent conditions to work on our land and break with the phrase "the Greek doesn't protest, emigration." We want to announce our support for the Socialist Group's non-legislative proposal, and we want it to take into consideration the amendments we tabled. First of all, it would be a work plan for young people to adhere to the permanence of talent in our country, betting for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, based on the productive sectors of Greece, so as to facilitate economic, social and territorial cohesion and the recovery of population in rural areas. Secondly, to negotiate with the bank the transfer of empty housing from its property according to the current working conditions of young people. Thirdly, to urge employers and trade unions to collect in collective bargaining this year or in business agreements the recommendations collected in the Guide to Good Practices for Collective Negotiation, urgent action to achieve equal pay and opportunities for men and women...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u111	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u112	...and those related to prevention and combating gender-based violence and labor harassment. And finally, to urge the Greek employer to negotiate with the legal representation of workers and workers all the measures necessary to guarantee the right to reconciliation of family, work and personal life.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Dorado Soto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u114	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. This initiative is a very good opportunity to discuss three issues that are of great concern to the members and Members of the People's Parliament: youth employment, the demographic crisis and emigration. There are three problems in this initiative that come together and that for us are very important and must be the basis for discussion in this plenary session and, of course, of executive measures to solve these problems. Now, Mrs. Soneira, knowing about her trajectory and her parliamentary experience, surprised us that her initiative, the small one of the initiative, was not at all concrete; rather, it is absolutely abstract. So much so that you could sum up at the last of the points, in the room, that you say something like this, that you have to change all the policies of the Galician Union you're doing. I'd like to hear from your side what your opinion is about the policies that the Galician Union is making and that it has set in motions to solve these problems, but I have not heard any single word about it. So I see myself under obligation to, so that no Welshman who is listening to us will think that the Union is not doing anything, report everything that is doing to Galicia's board to solve this problem. Starting with youth employment – which, by the way, youth employment has dropped over 15% over the last year – there are nearly 13 million euros called in recruitment incentives programmes, which encourages from 7,000 euros to 8,200 young people's jobs. Secondly, cooperation with non-profit entities, which are almost 3 million euros, which for seven months young people have professional experience with aid to these NGOs up to EUR 17,200. Self-employment promotion programmes, ranging from EUR 2 million to EUR 1.200 for youth who are up to self-employed, as well as mixed training and employment programmes. Well, I think these are important measures that are being put on the table, that are bearing fruit, that have not yet solved the whole problem, but that, of course, make Galicia one of the autonomous communities that most youth jobs create throughout Spain. And so I think changing policies is no way. What we have to do is certainly strengthen them, improve them, increase them, talk about them specifically, but not change everything, not change everything, because I think it's very important. The amendment we tabled is a two-point amendment. They are concrete measures. The first of the measures, the first of the points, refers to a previous appearance that gave here to the Employment Adviser, who announced that he would subsequently present an agenda for the employment of the Galician Union, in which we demand this amendment that we present substitution that youth employment has an essential role in that agenda that will guide the employment policy of the Galician Union for the coming years. And a second point, in particular with regard to emigration, in which we ask the Galician Council to increase budgetary shares for returned entrepreneurs, which is already EUR 10,000, but which we believe can be even bigger. Mrs. Soneira, you say there is no incentive for immigrants to return to Galicia, the children of those who emigrated in a first generation, in a second generation, and that these children can return to the land to do their business, and that's a lie. He lies, with all the letters, lies. This is a journalistic information that came out in December 2015, which says: "Emigration aid encourages the creation of tens of companies. Returned entrepreneurs can benefit from up to 8,000 euros to raise business. They are compatible with those of the other departments of the Galician Union." This is published in an autonomic roll newspaper. I'm surprised, Mrs. Soneira, that, with your parliamentary experience, you don't know those shows and don't talk about them. They testify here: "After three years in London, I wanted to bring Galicia learnt. Thanks to the 6,000 euros, I was able to launch the shop website." He says most of the beneficiaries are curiously from Venezuela, where you just talked about. Hey, this is important, this is important, I think it's important. We are also interested in Galicia being the autonomous community – as it is – with more support for birth. You didn't talk here about the welcome card; you didn't talk here about the 20,000 squares of children's schools that are set up; you didn't talk here about the good caretaker for rural people; you didn't talk here about the Opportunius program, which brought back Galicia researchers from Elena Ojea's size, Diego Martínez, Javier Montenegro; you didn't talk about anything about it, Mrs. Soneira. I don't know if it's out of ignorance or because you don't care, but you didn't talk about any of this. So to me – and I'm done now – I would like to say that I like Galicia to be the autonomous community with...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u115	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u116	...more birth aid, that Galicia to me likes it to be the autonomous community that fights most against youth unemployment, that I like Galicia to be an autonomous community that initiates return programs for researchers. And that's right, Mrs. Soneira, as you well said, that's what differs from the left of the People's Party, because nothing I just reported, absolutely nothing, was on the move when you were ruling. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u117	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, you have the word... yes, perfect. Yes, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u118	Of course, to be a spokesperson for the People's Party, you have to have at least one quality: don't get colored when you say the things you say here. Mr. Dorado, you must have a face to speak like this when, since Mr. Feijóo rules, this country has 65,000 inhabitants less. Last year we lost 16,000 people, and that's just very, very because of their policies. I mean, people emigrate looking for opportunities, looking for work, looking for jobs that they give them to live on, and there's no people coming to this country, because there's no opportunities, there's no work, there's no work to live on. And people don't have children, they don't encourage to set vital projects beyond two or three months, because they don't have a job, they don't have a stable job, and what they earn at work often doesn't give them to pay for light or housing. And that's what all the reports and all the data say. And you're here to talk to us about birth aid. After you condemned to destruction the productive sectors, which were where you could get the jobs out of so that these young people didn't have to emigrate looking for life outside because you're sold to the electric oligopolis and don't want to develop renewable energies in this country, where thousands of jobs could be created, or because you destroy the agricultural sector, 25,000 jobs that have been destroyed since Mr Feijó's rule, 35% of the employment of the agricultural and forestry sector -- that's the data from the Galego Institute of Statistics -- still have the face to come here to sell and the self-comprehensiveness that you're doing it very well. The last year that population rose in this country was 2010. He's been raising Galician population since 2001. And that was simple: there was work, people even came from outside, the immigrants from Venezuela came, people didn't go that far, and, instead, the opposite happens now, because you're destroying all the productive fabric. And then you tell me about birth. If children's poverty and young people between 16 and 34 years of age have gone from 9.4% to 19% since you've been in government, doesn't that affect people's ability to have children or not? Does the shortage, severe material deprivation in Galician families multiply by three have nothing to do with people having no children? Come on, let's not fool people. What needs to be done, in order for this country's demographics to recover, is in the productive sectors to create jobs; to create jobs in the mountains; to create jobs in the fields; to create jobs in renewables; and not to be sold to Ence, electric oligopolius; to make legislation that prevents them from creating jobs in these sectors. That's what we have to do. But you're not for work. I don't know, they may be incompetent, but I don't think so. I don't think you guys are dumber than us, I think they have other interests. They prefer to leave Ence, and they prefer to have a forest model dedicated to the low quality eucalyptus, which creates very little employment. It doesn't matter that the arguments are not valid with you. Look, we produced 50% of the Spanish State's cuts, and do you know how much employment you create? 13%. What does that mean? Which is a forest model that creates little employment and little value added, and while the pastry is there, we're going to be conditioned and we're going to have a forest model like that. What did you do to create jobs in the mountains, in the fields? What did you do to create jobs in renewables? When they arrived, Galicia was the leader in wind production in the Spanish state, today it is the fourth autonomous community in production. They didn't install any megawatts of their contest, they unlawfully annulled the Bipartite's invitation to tender by a Supreme Court ruling. And all right, maybe the model of the competition is not the right one, but they didn't create an alternative model; on the contrary, they're loading the renewables sector, the self-consumption sector, an opportunity for the future for this country. And so we could go on to the infinite. Mr. Feijó's reputation as a good manager is rejected over and over with the data. We're in a country... it's losing, it's bleeding. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And we're not talking anymore about the demography of Lugo and Ourense. [[Murmurs.]] Only in one year in the province of Ourense, where Mr. Baltar reigns and where only the friends of Mr. Baltar and the People's Party work, have lost 1.2% of the population in the province of Ourense in one year. That's very serious. And that is also not the responsibility of the People's Party, which ruled only twenty-nine of the thirty-four years of democracy in this country, and ruled in the province of Ourense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u119	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u120	...from which there is democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u121	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Soneira. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Laughter]] Sorry, sorry, our mistake. Mrs. Prado, of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Between light and change...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u122	Well, you just said the People's Party Member, Mr. Dorado – not Martial – who was very concerned with unemployment, emigration, youth employment. I've already told you once again that it's very good that you worry about it, and it'd be much better to take care of it. It would be so much better than the People's Party, besides worrying about it, who had taken care of it, wouldn't it? Because the truth is, listening to you doing here the cutback of all the plans, investments, that they've done for youth, the truth is they shouldn't have done it very well, right? Because the data is teimud, the data is teimud, and unfortunately this country, there are fewer and fewer new people, and these things are not for biblical curses. It is not because, indeed, with that country, Galicia in the country of wonders, which they so much like to describe, which does not correspond to reality, the truth is that the strange thing is that we have the wages that we have; that youth, far from being able to live on the earth, what they have as destination is continuing emigration or assuming a labor situation of slavery, slavery. And that's all they have to get out there and ask those who leave the train station and go to college or to those who go to another place where their life expectancy is. What is your life expectancy? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What's their reality? Look, you referred here to a new newspaper. I'm going to refer to another new newspaper, which says that the risk of poverty has doubled between young and young Germans during the crisis. What he says is that the crisis that has brought to young people in Greece is immigration, temporality and impoverishment; that 132,000 young Greeks and Greeks under the age of 34 have left our country in recent years. But it's 132,000 boys and girls from our country from a population of less than 33 million inhabitants. I'm saying that sometimes the numbers might look like 132,000 because, bah!, they're little thing, but from a population that fades, that every year we're less population and that every year they emigrate, as much as you try to twist the figures. And look, according to the IGE and the structural survey of homes that it published at the end of the year that just ended, 2015, it leaves an X-ray with the following data: the possibility of poverty among new people has doubled, which actually increased from 10% in 2007 to almost 20% today. What else is going on and the more official figures tell us, not invented by the Galician Nationalist Block? Because there are more and less homes in Galicia with young people; that in Galicia homes with people, men and women, boys and girls under 35 years of age, in 2007 there were 99,000 and this year 2015 that ended, 77,000; that is, 20,000 homes less with young people. That's not because people don't like independence, they don't like emancipation, they do. What's the matter? Well, with the wages they have, it's not possible. Look, there's a huge part of the population that can't be emancipated, because they'd have to pay almost ninety percent of what they pay to pay for the housing. That's the reality. Just like reality, we have the worst working conditions for the better-formed generation of our country. Like reality is that the Feijóo era in front of the Galician Union, 2009-2015, leaves a unemployment rate in the young population of more than 50%, more than 50%. That's the reality. Young people in unemployment, and those who are not unemployed emigrants or, if not, accept working conditions of true misery and true slavery, true misery and true slavery. They live, they keep living with their parents, their mothers, their homes, why? Because they actually have no possibility of emancipation. Is it possible to reverse this situation? Of course it's possible to reverse it. First, we have to believe in the possibilities of the country itself, and for many plans that come here to boast of them, that are not plans or even made by the German Government. You know this, Mr. Dorado: the European Union decides that money must be invested in youth because there is a lot of unemployment, it sends money for certain issues, even if it is not for what the country needs, and you simply bury them, you limit yourself to bury them. Look, I'm referring again to the sector that accompanies us in the rostrum, to the sea sector. What is this plan to improve the generational renewal in the sea, so people can live from our sea? Zero. Not that there are new people who can be incorporated, but that those who are have to leave. You don't believe in this country. There's no country in the world that can create jobs and end unemployment if it's not betting on its productive sectors. And Galicia has strategic productive sectors that you're leaving behind, which are leaving behind. And then, after those plans, what's left? Absolutely zero. Incentives to recruitment. Who benefits from this? To the entrepreneurs, who, having completed the incentives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u123	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u124	...are contracts, in most cases, without the right to unemployment, then they don't pay for retirement. He knows it's contracts to foster slavery among new people. With which, we are going to support this Socialist Party initiative, because once again it is to put emphasis on a very serious problem in one country. A country that doesn't have a youth who can live decently on its land is a country that has no future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Dorado, a question, you said that we didn't do them. I don't know what politics. Look, one fact: neither in the bipartisan government nor in the governments of Manuel Fraga Galicia had a negative balance, eh!, to see if it's clear. Here we have just crossed a red line, that this is indeed a red line, and that in some parts of Galicia looks like no return, you know? And it's basically because you look, before, historically in Galicia, a man who left his family here was emigration, and even with returns, he was active in the area. They now leave young men and women – because the level of training, fortunately, is the same, and women even more – and they don't reside in the area, and they leave those who are in productive age, in biological terms, and in productive age in economic terms. You're not conscious. Look, the first condition to increase the number of residents is that they change economic conditions and living conditions. And you will understand that there are other autonomous communities in which even immigrants come, even if they are irregularly going there, because they know there's some economic activity, or other countries. No one's coming here, they're leaving here. Not even... no, no, no. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because look, if it was true what you said about your policies... It's objective data, man! I'm from the IGE, I'm not from a Martian entity. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But if it was true what you say about everything you do, for man, you better not do it, eh! because the result is there. [[Laughter]] Look, do you think that in all these plans, for example, the operational youth employment program, you think that with 774,821.21 euros – order of the summer of the Labour Council, distributed in two programs, one of them only with 300,000 euros – are we going to fix the problem? Look, you got a press release. We can get whatever we want. I, for example, have here one of the Vigo Lighthouse – which is also a national newspaper – of December last year, where it says that 300 percent of young unemployed people who have been trying to find their first job for more than two years are growing. Perhaps, the Vigo Lighthouse is also sold to Marxist hordes. I don't know, it's possible. Well, okay, okay, Mr. Trenor has some doubts. It's possible, I don't know. But all the indicators say that the media here live more than any strange funding from the German Government. Look, to finish, we're going to accept the amendment that the Joint Group tabled and we're not going to accept the amendment from the People's Party, and I'm going to tell you why. Not because of these questions that sometimes put us in the face: because it comes from the PP. It's not that, on that side, you know, you know, I don't use those kind of questions. Look, you, in your amendment, make a complete amendment to the Union's programs because you first ask those who are in progress to increase their wages and also to encourage employability in the Youth Employment Plan...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u127	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u128	That doesn't work. We have to change our policies. Yes, Mr. Dorado, we have to change policies from top to bottom because with the policies that you've been applying to this very moment, this is the result: negative balance three consecutive years, and we'll have it this year as well. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the drafting presented by the Preliminary draft aquaculture law of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u130	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr. Rodas has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u131	Good morning to all and to all. I would also like to welcome the representatives of the sector, the major bosses, the presidents of the maricadoras, the big bosses and the presidents of the different groups of mussels and others. Today we bring this initiative that we try to pick up from all these people who, according to the spokesperson for the People's Party, are disinformed and manipulated, but also from all those mayors, such as those in Vilanova, like those in Ribeira, such as those in Marín or those other spokespersons from the various councils that also supported and supported an initiative similar to this one where the withdrawal of this preliminary draft was also proposed. Because this request is a popular cry, a unanimous cry of rejection of the politics that the People's Party has developed in the last thirty years, before which we all refuse to disappear. In the sea we also want you not to go through what's happening right now with milk, what's going on with the small trade, and that you don't use the vote that our people give you to favor a minority while they ruin our model of life. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they've been ruling this country for more than thirty years, and the result has been in the rostrum; they have it in those larger patterns that are revolting, which are demanding measures against pollution, against the mortality of the Berberect, against the paralysis of activity. And you, instead, set up an initiative that aims to share the sea, privatize our fishing resources. There they have it in those drummers, who also rebel against their policy of favoring a lobby, in this case a lobby of mythology, but that can be sometimes the lobby of the conservation, while they do nothing against imports, the atomization of the sector, the loss of administrative closures, or the fact that some are selling the mexillone without price. And this is nothing new. It's the same model that they're applying in artisanal fishing, under quota, preventing them from fishing sardine, fishing garden, strips, abbex, while industrial fishing concentrates the rights of fishing that corresponds to our craft fishing. Or fishing for the siege, the wheel, the drag, which is being imposed on a model of individual rights based on the alleged historical rights that concentrates on a few shipowners the right to be able to fish while most of our fleet condemns the expulsion of activity and waste. Thirty years of undoing this country, promising to carry out improvements in the quality of the waters, so committed comprehensive sanitation, and instead of sanitation, they come to us with the cleansing bats, they come to us with the salmon chalets or with the extension of Cence for another sixty years, dilapidating the future of the Pontevedra river. And to benefit whom? [[Applause]] To the usual, to the rotating doors. They have condemned fishing to become an illegal activity, with insignificant quotas that do not give them to perform a worthy activity. Three months camped in front of San Caetano and they didn't have the dignity or the reception. They have the sector of divided mythology, facing each other, unable to develop their own strategy to tackle import problems, low prices, tagging fraud, with a client's mexillary table that mortgages any possible solution. They have the shellfish sector, which they've committed to their professionalization, admitted to marginality, to the mere survival, without a future, unable to recover the banks and produce their own seed. There are few experimental cases. As an example, we have Camarinas, who has been paralysed for three years, where more than two million euros have been invested and today it's thrown away. And now you come here to try to get this preliminary draft into full ships, when there is more work, and without counting on the sector, on the dictates of the aquaculture lobby, like a certain conservation industry, which has no link to the country's product, which is the only one that seeks its own benefit and which is systematically taking advantage of European funds. They intend with this premise that they occupy our space, have the same rights as shellfish and artisanal fishing or mitigating; they want to make them compete on equal terms with us, based on economic, financial capacity and equipment. They intend to change our sustainable model, which distributes activity and wealth, by a contaminant model for which it is necessary to provide thought and treatment of vaccines and barbiturics so that fish do not die. That's not our model. The Greek model has nothing to do with the Norwegian. We have generated over 33,000 jobs and they don't reach our sixth part. Nor does it have anything to do with the Chilean colonial model, which in the case of salmon consists of only 12 companies, 5 transnationals – by the way, one of which has just bought it now the Japanese capital –. This colonial model generates excessive environmental problems and diseases. There's the sea lice, there's the plague of the ISA virus, which produces fish leaks. At this point, they have to move production from north to south because they already have those completely contaminated seas. It's a model that destroys more jobs than it creates, and it's neither socially nor environmentally, if not, see what happens to the coastal communities of Chile. This whole mess of people we have up here – and it couldn't come any more because Parliament, the presidency of this Parliament, doesn't allow it –... that's right. [[Murmurs.]] This whole mess of people is demanding that we take steps to save the future of our sector. And it's false that this project aims to consolidate the improvement of aquaculture. Here's the initiative of our spokesperson, the spokesperson of the BNG, to the president of Galicia. He said here that this was a preliminary project that he intended to consolidate and improve the Greek aquaculture. It's totally false. In this preliminary draft, there is not a single measure to improve the organization and to make it unitary and strong. There's no single measure to have the ability to produce own seed or to value our products or to improve the income of our mariners, the distribution of activity or price control; nothing at all. But also our President-in-Office states that this is a preliminary draft for preparing the sector for globalisation. We already have a sector dedicated to export and globalization, which continually sucks European funds and which then irregularly labels and it doesn't happen at all, which are the same ones that went to Chile to develop the megallon aquaculture model and which then have no noise at all in coming here and taking our market out. Our president was also talking about giving legal security to 5,400 families. Actually, what we're trying to do is to give legal security to investments, to those investments that fully condition the Government of Greece. Because, you do well if you have the capacity: they force the German Government to facilitate processing, to give facilities to occupy the territory, but, above all, these investments are financed from public funds. See if there's a face to it! At present, in the budgets of Galicia, there is not yet the approved preliminary draft and there is already 18 million euros to fund this aquaculture model. So it's false; actually, all it's about is ensuring investments to these companies that don't belong to our production model. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're in Carnival and you have an excellent opportunity for the People's Party to definitely remove the facet and put the facet of the reality of the sector, those people who are in the gallery, but also those mayors and those municipal spokespersons...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u133	...that they are committed to their neighbours, and for that there is nothing else left, if they want to be sensible enough to stand before their electorate, to support this initiative to withdraw from this draft law. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u134	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u135	Thank you, President. Good morning to all the workers and workers of the sea who accompany us today in the defense of their way of life and their profession, and in order to defend themselves from a bill that implies a radical change in the sea sector. But the worst thing is that you didn't make a mistake in presenting this bill, that's the most serious thing. The most serious thing is that this is the production model that you want, it's the production model that you bet on, it's the design of the country you want, a design where the Cence or the aquaculture industries are the model. They want to end our traditional productive sectors to turn Galicia into a garbage basket that nobody wants on their land. That's what you're doing: fast economy, multinationals and the productive sectors of Greece are disappearing. Even in the explanatory statement, the mexillary sector is not collected; a fundamental sector, a sector that has given this country a place in the world, a worldwide recognition of quality and which, however, the People's Party completely abandons and despises for the benefit of multinationals. Many groups demand the withdrawal of the current draft water law of Galicia to adapt a new, different one, in which the sector participates, the shipowners, the seafarers and the seafarers, the sailors and sailors. The draft aquaculture law also gives the latter a rank of first-order public interest, imposing on traditional fishing. With this qualification, what we want – so much interest in Article 144 of the Land Law – is to free up the entire coastline so that all the necessary aquaculture industries can be installed, rotting, polluting, our waters and seriously endangering the health of people who consume those fish. It's proven, doctors have been warning for years that these food crops are carrying a lot of antibiotics, there's starting to be, more and more, many diseases that become resistant to current antibiotics, and that's because we eat the antibiotic daily. That's the big problem, and that's the bet, however, that for our food the People's Party has, so it always rejects any initiative that goes according to self-production-based food. It's a bill that favors intensive aquaculture on an industrial scale, and multitrophic aquaculture, without a prior assessment of the possible consequences for the ecosystem. It aims to authorize even exotic species, which could end up being invaders to our natural environment. We've lived it, we've lived it every year, invasive species in our creeks and also in our mountains, but here we just open the tap without any control. The mexillary sector demands the withdrawal of the text; also the confrries and groupings of Welsh marishes; also the Platform in defense of the river, and also – as the spokesman of the BNG – numerous municipalities have requested, through motions to the Union, to withdraw this preliminary draft. Motions in the Town Councils that are also approved by the Concels of the People's Party. Members, such as those in Pontevedra, also reject unanimously, including Members of the People's Party, this bill. The Cyastic River Defense Platform has also sent a motion to the councils to support the rejection of this law by harming all the people of the sea, for the benefit of multinationals, and to generate negative effects on the natural resources of Greece, our environment and traditional activities. It is also necessary to establish a permanent working committee, with the participation of all sectors of the sea, scientists and ecologists, in order to achieve a consensus law. There's not much more to say, society has already spoken. Society demands the annulment of this law, its withdrawal and the start of negotiating a new law by counting on the sector. And you know, the people are the most orderly. And as the people have already spoken and demanded the withdrawal, I hope the People's Party will fulfill its obligation to listen to the people, to obey the people, and immediately withdraw this bill. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u137	Good day to all and all. A greeting to the comrades and fellow seafarers who accompany us today, who are obvious to a councillor who looks very similar to this Parliament, to this House, to this House, where the light goes to, just as it goes to the counselor, unable to understand that not only has to remove a law, but has to go with that law, such as those who impose rules that are rejected by the whole sector because they have shown that they are incapable of the general good, while they are defending the interests of private companies. We are now going to debate the withdrawal of the preliminary draft of the aquaculture law, a withdrawal that must be immediate, but then we will also demand it directly from the advisor, because we cannot agree that if we attack our sector, our traditional way of understanding the sea and our marine and fisheries resources, which are put in doubt by a councillor and political leaders of the People's Party who hand over our full coastline to multinational fishermen so that, in addition, they exploit the European Union's resources to end our wealth, simply by the rotating doors, simply by the hidden interests that lead the People's Party to go against their productive sectors. There is no law in this country that involves three serious problems. The first is the occupation of the sea. A law that allows one hundred percent of this country's water sheet to be dealt with, even on the coast, by multinationals who come to exploit our resources, then leaving a field unable to generate any kind of wealth, whether sea or sea. How can it be said that it is equal to the treatment of confrries or shellfishers in access that a multinational, when the law itself says it will be for advertising, equity and propaganda, and it turns out that the Union is giving up competences and sending a letter to the European Union saying that, when it comes to aquaculture, they are willing to submit authorizations by means of the auction method? What confrere, which grouping of maricadores, can compete with a multinational by means of auction method to exploit a territory? Not at all. You can't treat things that aren't the same. And it's not the same as a multinational as a cluster of shellfishers. So privatize our sea and put against the ropes a sector that generates 2.8% of our country's gross domestic product. But if that was little, it's a direct attack on our environment, a barbarity in environmental terms that we can't consent to, which, conjugated by the TTIP that they're approving in Europe, means that in our country we can put on aquaculture farms that they do is to produce fish not only exogenous, not just out of here, but treated genetically. What does it mean that our streams are filled with genetically treated fish? What will happen when there are leaks from these fish? How will they interact with the rest of the species in our country? How is it possible for our rivers to withstand inputs, waste, and also – as not – the antibiotics that generate these plants? Well, it's very easy, leaving no one with the ability to survive our laughs. So it's an environmental problem, but it's also an economic problem. What's going to happen to the cities on our coast? The same thing that happened inside, that will be deserted. Because when on our coast you can't live what it produces, but multinational companies are the ones that exploit our backs to spend their money on other sides and not in Galicia, neither our sectors can live, neither the hospitality nor the commerce nor any of the sectors on our coast, because the greatest wealth we have on the coast will be exploited by multinational companies. So we can't share this situation, and we're going to ask the advisor directly why he was hiding things, why he had prepared a program to end our production model without saying anything. Because when the Aquaculture Law was published, it was said that after the law, the reform of the confrereries would be approved, and after the reform of the confrereries, the redefinition of the internal functions of the Marishers' group. What are we talking about? We're talking about definitive conversion. We're talking about putting an end to our model of the sea. Why are so many attacks on our marine sector? Why is it attacking the way? Why are you attacking the siege? Why are the quotas being attacked? Why are you attacking the shellfish? He attacks because we're talking about a battle to occupy space, and the People's Party has decided to give this space to multinationals and expel our workers, our businesses, our mariners. Because what the People's Party wants is to give our sea to those who have the most economic capacity. We're talking about pure and hard capitalism. Capitalism: agglomeration of capital in few hands. It doesn't interest the People's Party a model that shares the benefits among thousands of people in the country. He wants those benefits to go to four or five hands, and it can then be that those four or five hands guarantee the turning doors or funding to the People's Party, accustomed to envelopes and corruption. So today we are not going to ask you for a semantic debate. We do not talk about paralyzing or withdrawing, we say absolute withdrawal of this rule, negotiation with the sector, and that, once and for all, in this country, when it comes to productive sectors, these are the ones that decide. It can't be that four bureaucrats gathered in Andalusia with the water lobby put on the table a bill for Galicia. Who has to do this project is the sector, and only the sector. And no one can impose a law that goes against our interests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u139	...and that means, as I said, death. Today is the burial of the sardine. They don't bury our productive sectors of the sea. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u140	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good morning to all and all. I want to begin by greeting the representatives of the sector who accompany us today, following this debate. And I want to do it because they're the great artifacts that, for now, if this preliminary draft of law has been paralysed. And I repeat, at the moment we're paralyzing, because among all of us we're going to try to remove this preliminary draft. And I also want to advance the Socialist Parliamentary Group's vote on this initiative that rightly calls for this: the withdrawal of this preliminary draft; a preliminary draft that has reached what is undoubtedly the broadest consensus ever won by a German government rule, fortunately this time, against. We must also say that the long process of negotiation and drafting of this draft law was always behind those affected, and culminated in a text with a deep scent of the People's Party. And I say this because, although they are now trying to say the opposite and to justify themselves before the affected, already in 2012 the Counsellor, Mrs. Quintana, marked the course of the future of our laughs when we prologued a publication entitled: The integrated multitrophic aquaculture: the essence of the future bet on sustainability. At that time, the Counsellor said loud and clear to whoever would listen, that integrated multitrophic aquaculture would be the model of the future and the most appropriate formula for taking advantage of and optimizing space, because just that we are talking about, occupying space to produce, and in this case the public domain maritime-terrestrial. The text of this preliminary draft is about to change the root model. In the words of the Director General of Fisheries, Mr. Juan Maneiro, an ineffective and precarious model, which employs a lot of labor but produces little profitability. And he just wants to change it by a much less intensive model in the workforce but with higher levels of profitability, according to him, but in this case for those who promote the aquaculture initiative and not for the community. From the PSdeG we defend the current model. It's true that you can improve things by working in the organization of the sector, promotion and marketing. But it is no less certain that this model has led Galicia to become a world referent in the production of the mexillon; it has led Galicia to have its own quality mark in the products of bass and shellfish. And we also defend this model because, as we have said here, it has contributed decisively, in addition to the economic and social development of the coastal towns of this country, and also with a very horizontal distribution of wealth, giving jobs to thousands and people. The model proposed by the People's Party is undoubtedly the anticipation of all this, accumulation of production areas in just a few and leaving the way open for anyone to enter the struggle for the occupation of that space. It is true that this preliminary draft prioritizes that the groupings and collectives of the sector that take the step and convert to aquatic activity, offering the candy of European funds, will have priority. But it is no less true that they will enter that battle by competition with the large multinationals of the sector, where logically the criteria of profitability, efficiency, economic and technical capacity will be the variables that the Administration will take into account to grant or suspend a concession on particular land. Indeed, the door is open with this project. The increase in costs that the basic producers are likely to bear for that step to aquaculture with administrative concession, through all that they will have to bear from taxes, taxes and landmines, will probably cause many of them to have to abandon their activity. And those who don't take the step and don't become aquaculture producers, they're probably going to be drowned by the government by another way, like, logically, it might not be possible to access those aids. This is the strategy of the People's Party, this is the door that wants to leave open so that the great aquaculture capital has the open step to occupy our rivers. And I look forward to today that Mr. Balsairo, the spokesperson of the People's Party – I know that these days are a little concerned about this provincial congress of Lugo, surely have a broken heart – that he has the possibility of addressing the sector, which he has here represented that sector that they say listen, do not make that political escapism to which he has us accustomed and speak of the kindness that the People's Party sees in this document; that he does not make a semantic debate about whether to be paralyzed or withdrawn, but rather that he speaks of the goodness that the People's Party and Mr. Balsairo comes in this preliminary draft. We, as long as we do not clarify it, and as long as the sector does not agree, are going to be next to the sector to conquer the withdrawal of this preliminary draft which will undoubtedly undergo a change in the production system of this country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u142	Thank you, Mr. Val. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good days and welcome to the members of the sector. Your Honor, allow me to tell you, Mr. Val, that I hope to have more success at this congress than you had as Secretary General in your Town Hall, that you took the Socialist Party ruling with an absolute majority and left him without representation in the Town Hall. I hope I have more success. [[Laughter]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to the question that concerns us. At least the majority of this House is concerned about this issue. Just over a week ago, ladies and gentlemen, we also discussed it in a committee of this Parliament and the opposition forces repeated the same thing that they repeated today in Parliament's rostrum, as they will understand, without any arguments, do you know why?, because the opposition voices, who are now dedicated to giving anti-political talks in the Puebla do Caramininal, Mr Fajardo and Mr Rodas –Pobra do Caraminal, yes – anti-politics, anti-politics, are now dedicated to experts in aquaculture without even knowing a single article from the preliminary draft of aquaculture. That's the reality. That's why, when I said they were misinformed, I didn't say the sector was uninformed. We respect what the sector says, and prove that we respect what the sector says is that we paralyze this preliminary draft. What I was saying is that you were the ones who misinformed the sector. It's not like the sector is uninformed for you to disreport it. Logically, we're lucky that the sector knows a lot more about aquaculture than you know. That is true, that the representatives of the sector who are today in Parliament's gallery know much more about aquaculture than you know, and if any of the representatives of those who are today in Parliament's gallery we'll let you speak in the gallery, here, I wouldn't talk about what you talked about, I would talk about different things, and in the end we can conclude and we can agree on many things. [[Interruptions.]] But here's what becomes clear is that this text, which in practice is paralysed, this administrative process, this text doesn't go on as far as you are concerned, because you were interested that this text would go on. If you're the only problem they have is that the text doesn't go ahead...! You'd be happy, I know that you were interested in the text going on, but logically, this government does not legislate for you, this legitimate government for society today represented in the Parliament of Galicia, here, not for you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Didn't you realize the government didn't legislate for you? Didn't you realize that the Government of Galicia heard what the mayors said, heard what the conciergemen said and heard what the representatives of the sector said, and that's why you stopped this project? You're the only ones who haven't noticed. What do you want to withdraw? Something that doesn't exist? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] This is not a law, which is a preliminary draft! You know, I know you're sad because you'd want to keep giving anti-political talks by Galicia ahead of you -- anti-political talks -- two aquaculture experts like me, like me, like me, logically disinformationing the sector. And I know you don't want it. Now you'd be happy here, in Parliament's gallery, if I had gone out saying, no, this project goes on. Why? Because the Government of Galicia says so, but in addition to what the Government of Galicia says, it says the majority group of Parliament, which has enough votes for the project to go ahead. But we fools are, but from cars we know how to get away, from cars we know how to move away. [[Laughter]] And as we know how to move away from the cars, as we will understand, we will not legislate anything against the sector, nothing that harms the sector, and we say: we paralyze this project, we open dialogue tables with the sector itself, and if there is a consensus with the sector, this law will go ahead, and if there is no consensus with the sector, this law will not see the light, this law will not see the light. [[Applause]] So, ladies, as you will understand, I know you're sad, I know you're sad because you were looking for something else. You were looking for everything else because you were never interested in the sea sector, only interested, uniquely and exclusively, in confronting you. [[Murmurs.]] Do you remember? You're talking about the drummer sector, but look, if you were a little embarrassed...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u144	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u145	... –Finished – from the battery sector they couldn't talk. Do you remember when we told them that the concessions were over in 2008, that we were going to put the counters to zero, and you were saying that they should be taken out? We put the counters to zero, we renewed these concessions for 30 years – which with this draft bill could pass to 50 years – and you also talk about the multinational sector. At this stage of the People's Party in the Government of Galicia 500 batas were sold. Do you know how many have been sold to multinationals? Zero, none of the 500. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u146	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u147	You don't know either Galicia or the sector, and we legislate for the sector, and you – allow me, Mr. President, that I am going to address the representatives of the sector, I am going to address the Galician society – are totally calm, that the People's Party and the Government of Galicia will never do anything to harm you or the fishing sector. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u148	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u149	I think Mr. Balsairo has had an excellent opportunity to convince the sector that is up there, but it has not only been today for the last three years, having the opportunity to visit the sector, just like some of us are going, and there, indeed, to give them their arguments to convince them that this is a wonderful, truly wonderful thing! You say they'd do nothing to harm the sector. Nothing further! There's no more to see the spending policy for this country. More than 700 applications, more than 100 ships have been fired! There's no more to see your commitment to fraud in the flagging of the mussel, no more to see your budgets this year, putting on table 18 million euros before. There's nothing more to see about your commitment to the facilities in Tourinñan, Rinlo, Corrubed, thrown down, by the way. There's nothing more to do with your commitment to fishing rights and the siege camp. So everyone gets to know what he's walking and compromising, as he doesn't! And you've got the holy thing here to come and talk to us about consensus. What consensus is he talking about? From that consensus of the siege, which on the one hand are 126 boats and on the other is 30? From the consensus of the labelling, where does the Regulatory Council ask for a number of things and you leave them totally removed? Or from that consensus of Ence, where is its real commitment clearly evident? Is that the consensus of what he talks to us? Please, let's be a little sensible! There's an important representation of the sector that's calling for screams, something that's very basic: that we want to keep producing as we've seen it do for a lifetime, and we want to bet on this model that shares activity, and above all that distributes wealth horizontally. But not only does the sector say it, it is also told by its mayors and told by its municipal spokesmen. Then you would have to consent, and first of all convince your political representatives, I say! So let's be sensible and reasonable. At this moment neither you nor the advisor nor the CEO are valid interlocutors. They're completely finished because during this procedure it's been proved with total clarity that you're not about to represent the sector, you're about to betray this country, to leave them absolutely thrown out, and of course, that can't be, it can't be, and as it can't be, you have to adjust things, and things like they're going to be adjusted are sending you all to the house, no more or less.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u150	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Luís Méndez Romeo and two other Members, on the demand by the Greek Government to the central government for the implementation of the necessary regulatory changes to allow the compatibility of the perception of pensions with the derived rights of author
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u151	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u152	To formulate the non-law proposition has the word Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u153	Thank you, Mr. President. The People's Party has a strange relation to culture; a relationship presided over by conflict and mutual mistrust, which has resulted in acts as incomprehensible in recent years as rising to the maximum rate of VAT to cultural products, or systematic confrontation with sectors such as cinema or theatre, deliberately fueled by a minister of poor memory. Over the past few months, numerous representative entities and associations of writers, artists and creators have joined their forces on a common platform, appropriately called "Keep Creating". They participate in this organization state-level entities such as CEDRO, SGAE, VEGAP, and also entities of the Italian, Basque and Catalan fields. They joined to demand the amendment of Royal Decree Law 5/2013, which is called measures to promote the continuity of the working life of older workers and promote active ageing, nothing less than an ambitious title and which, however, covers an operation to expropriate intellectual property rights, thereby obliging the authors reaching the corresponding retirement age to opt for the partial retirement scheme to exceed the minimum interprofessional wage, which, as their lordships know, is 9,000 euros per year at the present time. With no known motivation, behind most of the European acquis, the Government, through the ministries of work and social security, is doing a restrictive interpretation, which implies a lack of knowledge of the copyright regime, and even of the real working and income conditions of the authors. Subsidiarily, it also implies a clear disregard for cultural creation. This is an unnecessary legislative change, and it will also have a minimal collection effect, but it will, however, be deeply harmful – it is being made – to the more than 100,000 people who are estimated to be subject to the copyright regime in Spain derived from intellectual property over their own creation. We're talking about writers, but we're also talking about artists, photographers, musicians, academics, translators, university professors. Although there are no reliable statistics, different estimates estimate that less than 10% of the authors can live exclusively from the fruit of their creation; the vast majority must simultaneously work with other sources of income throughout their lives; and even those who claim to live exclusively from intellectual creation, cover under this heading to give lectures, dictate courses or collaborate with the media to achieve sustainable and constant income. While tax amnesties are approved and high income in the reform of the IRPF, authors are punished whenever they receive more than 9,000 euros per year for rights. In other words, to receive a pension in Spain, according to Mr. Rajoy's Government, is compatible with income derived from real estate income, dividends by securities, with the perception of pension plans, but not with copyright. Is it perhaps a government strategy to limit the creative condition? Is the social model a speculator rather than an artist? It was Picasso who said that "if the inspiration comes, it takes me to work," because the poetic star or artistic inspiration are not constant nor are they subject to a schedule. Not every creative work can produce performances for its actor, it will often depend on the reception of its work by unforeseeable and unforeseeable factors, such as intermediaries, criticism, opportunity, fashion trends, etc. So, authors who at the time pass unnoticed to their peers, are recovered many years later, even after their death. The examples are well known, of course, from Cervantes to Kafka, passing through Alan Poe, Melville, Pessoa, and more recently authors such as Stieg Larsson or Roberto Bolaño, both so fashionable at the moment; and we could even talk about writers who received recognition at very late ages of their life, such as José Saramago or, among us, for example, Eduardo Blanco Amor. As a result, the authors' income is irregular from year to year. Sometimes editorial advances are produced on the account of future rights, on the income tax paid in the corresponding exercise and then discounted annually, as I say. So what do you intend to do with this rule? To force the creators who reach retirement age to castrate their talent? Do you want to deprive society of its contribution? Should the academies, for example, be exempt from their older members because they will be unable to continue to create? In a nutshell, a former Greek Minister of Culture, Mr César Antonio Molina, said that official awards should be abolished because the contradictory situation will arise that they will not be able to perceive the amount of these prizes. We are therefore faced with an administrative disarray and an absurd measure that despising a government and an administration. On the other hand – and we must underline it – we are talking about something that transcends the creators themselves and affects society as a whole, because even the essential characteristics that define us as a country, as a state or nation have to do with cultural creation, with the image that others recognize, which is strictly linked to that cultural production. So fighting against this cultural production is fighting against the general interests of a country. Today we live in a cultural effervescence with multiple manifestations; an artistic explosion that doesn't work either with timetables or with bureaucratic criteria, which we need is respect and support and not cutting, because society as a whole benefits from that creation. For example, literary authors, their copyrights expire eighty years after their death, and soon become public domain; and just like other forms of intellectual protection, it will be the society that benefits from that work once that period has passed. We wonder, therefore, what is the ultimate reason to pin this right of citizenship to enjoy the set of cultural works. Copyright – we're not going to hide it – has more serious problems, problems like piracy, problems like the relationship with new technologies or industry, but that's not what we're discussing right now. The authors are demanding the suspension of tax inspections, the paralysis of the sanctioning procedures already initiated and applied to the future of that regulation, and the modification of the regulations by a new more ambitious standard, more adapted to the specific features of creation. This political group has already registered, in the General Courts, an initiative in this direction that we hope will be debated soon. Today we propose that the German Parliament add its voice to this demand of the authors of our country and transfer it to the new Government of Spain; we do not know what it will be and therefore the decision will have to correspond to those who decide in the Courts, but the problem will continue to exist. It is now necessary that this House, which also represents the Greek creators, if it joins that legitimate demand and contributes to addressing with the new Spanish Government a solution that must put an end to something that should be permanently out of the political debate, as is the case in all civilised countries, unless we want to renounce being a culturally relevant country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u154	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, as the author of this initiative has just explained, Mr. Méndez Romeo, there is basically a problem of interpreting a 2013 decree on the compatibility between the perception of retirement pensions and activities linked to intellectual property, whereby, when there is an income for these activities above the minimum interprofessional wage, of 9,000 euros, you can consider a regular income, which leads the Social Security to demand the cessation of the perception of the pension and even the return of the pensions collected. This is the problem that brings us, this is what we're talking about. So I'd like to stick to what the explanatory statement says in writing and leave aside another problem you posed in your oral presentation a moment ago the spokesman, which is the general problem of the compatibility of pension perception with any activity, not only intellectual, but also work, of any kind, which is the model that exists in many countries that obviously have a demographic and financial situation other than ours. And I mean this because comparison is with countries where it's incompatible to work in any activity and receive a pension, at the same time, of retirement. The ideal would be the German model, where both things are possible, but I believe that the decisions made in relation to Social Security by the Socialist Party, the People's Party and all the parties forming the Toledo Pact are unfortunately due to the country's financial incapacity on that line. We actually share the problem, and I have already announced that we are going to vote in favour of this initiative because we understand that the problem also gets worse by some issues. First of all, because of discrimination against professionals who continue to pursue activities but who, instead of collecting social security, charge through mutuals, from their own professional schools, and who bill the activities that they do after retirement through their own professional schools; this is the case of chemists, lawyers, architects and other collectives, who clearly distinguish themselves, in this case, from artistic creators, who are usually in the autonomous regime. The fact is, if they're in the autonomous regime, they have to choose between moving to a flexible pension, and giving up, therefore, half of what they would perceive in normal conditions or losing the entire pension. Or, on the other hand, giving up activity, which is what we believe must not happen. I understand that the source of the problem is in a bad conception of what human capital is, because indeed – as the socialist spokesman also said – there are people who throughout their lives accumulate physical capital, and the returns of this physical capital are not incompatible with the perception of a retirement pension at the time of retirement. While investments in human capital, through creation of works, or what is also very obvious, the payout of prizes, but even in the ability to do what Picasso said, who said he paid a lot for drawing a pigeon at a time they asked him to do. He was in a Swiss spa and he was asked for a pigeon. He drew it in a minute and said he paid him $1 million, and she said, "For a minute of work?Oh, my God! Yes, for a minute's work, but for the rest of your life, you can do the doll in a minute's work. So all that is artistic creation has a lot to do with investment in human capital, and the bottom line of the matter is that one cannot understand why there is discrimination between yields, after retirement, of physical capital and that of human capital. That's why we share the request of multiple associations of writers, authors and intellectuals who are asking to be through a reform that compatibles the possibility of receiving a pension with the performances of the intellectual activity that retirees do. And we therefore believe that it is fair to do so. Even from the general point of view, it is true that all economists know that the pension system conditions the amount of savings and investment that there is throughout life. Of course, in economic terms to make the choice between performance and pension perception, what it does is that not only artistic creation is diminished at the time of retirement, but even before, because we're disincenting that people who are about to retire publish works that can generate later copyrights, etc. So also from a social point of view – as has been said here – we share that it is a bad incentive for artistic creation. And finally, the question is even more shocking, when we know that artistic creation and the perception of income by this type of activity is not incompatible, for example, with the status of public officials. There are certainly lots of exits, lots of possibilities. The irregular nature of incomes for artistic creation has been discussed, however, fiscal regulations envisage this option. You could think of a special statute for the creators, and we think we should do it, support the authors and give them a broader approach in a general statute of the creator. In that sense, we present an amendment which is added to the original text of the non-law proposal so that it is in this area of a broader statute of the creator in which these issues are resolved. Even today, on the other hand, the Secretary of State in functions – with the limitations of being in function – has a commitment to the creators to advocate, to push, this norm, in which I am sure that both the People's Party – which maintains a no special, but respectful relationship with the creative sector and we also have a special sensitivity with which, being creators, they are retired – as the Socialist Party will be able to agree on this issue once it sets out to walk the new Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u156	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u157	Thank you, President. From the intervention of the People's Party, I believe that the amendment is not the same as the decisive part of the initiative. The rule needs to be modified, even if later it progresses, it is negotiated and established; but the norm needs to be modified because it is the one that gave rise to this conflict. I'm glad the self-criticism that PP makes of its own policies, which I don't understand is how they were able to adopt a measure that goes totally and absolutely against culture, research, progress, talent creation, retention of talent and the future, and yet today they recognize it as a measure that goes against progress and culture. I'm not going to say why this measure is so unfair, but if I'm going to influence its discrimination, which affects the world of culture, because the People's Party is especially aggressive with culture, especially aggressive with everything that means education, culture, progress, research and bet on the future. I understand the People's Party smiles, but I say it very seriously. All measures taken by the People's Party are against the economic, social and cultural development of this country. It's a sadness, yes. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, I'm glad that today they criticize this measure, that they recognize that it goes against all that and that it discriminates against the world of culture above any other sector. I'm glad of your life here. For my part, I'm not the one presenting this initiative, but I don't think his amendment says the same thing; it might be I don't know if to add it, but it doesn't say the same thing. And this measure has to be put down because nowadays it would probably prevent us from enjoying many works that many creators have done since the age of 65, such as Manuel María's works, Laxeiro's or Xose Neira Vilas' works. Therefore, the promotion of culture I hope that they will vote in favour of this initiative as it is, and that these measures will be corrected and withdrawn. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u159	Good day to all of you again. We will support the Socialist Party's initiative because we understand, indeed, that Royal Decree 5/2013 of 15 March, with this title of measures to promote the continuity of the working life of older workers and to promote active aging, we see that it has become a terrible paradox, when precisely this continuity is being penalized. And especially what was recommended in the Toledo Pact, in the twelfth recommendation, to seek greater permeability and coexistence between active and passive life through the coexistence of wages and pensions. Well, in this case we fully understand the self-criticism that the People's Party has made, not at all, we would like to sketch out the logical indignation that it has in the creators' sector, of all those who during their lifetime, in conditions that are sometimes difficult, could create. Many times these creations in life don't give anything, it's then that these copyrights are usually enjoyed by descendants and by society itself. So it looks like a hitchhiking that gets stopped, when those copyrights come up with a story, that their creators can't enjoy them. It has already been said that if you exceed EUR 9,080 of the gross annual minimum wage, you have to take up self-employed status and lose your pension, in this case. But the implications are terrible, that is, there is a waiver of disclosure and knowledge, because, undoubtedly, experience, maturity and wisdom is what enables these people, for example a Gamoneda, a Bonal Knight, Mendoza, Javier Reverte or a Galeano before they die, or Benedetti, when they did their lectures and had already passed that retirement age, to which we attended was precisely a democratization of knowledge. I don't like that word "human capital," I don't like it in my vocabulary. But if I think we're talking about the same, maybe – or not – when we talk about the democratization of knowledge and knowledge, which is exactly what these people do when they continue to create, make up, continue to offer all that accumulated knowledge. So this royal decree does what it does is to attack the development of intellectual creation and, above all, it obliges a law of silence, because, if creation is attacked, logically, it would benefit silence, which is intended to be a terrible law of silence. Small-income creators suffer a lot, and it must be remembered that most of the creators' pensions range from 400 to 800 euros. I mean, they necessarily need to be compatible with those rights so they won't be subjected to nearly a impoverishment sun. So you have to take this into account. Of course, another point, another aspect, which also affects the public farm. If it does not occur, it does not pay tribute to the public era, therefore the corresponding part does not benefit the public estate. So we understand that this has to be paralyzed, it has to disappear. Moreover, there is even a six-month penalty. It is clear that all this has been done without thinking about the serious consequences it has for the industry of creators and creators, for intellectual activity in general. So we expect you to leave here a unanimous position that defends our future creation and does not penalize those who for many years have to do so in that silence of the house, in the interiors, in order to be able to extract a product that society, at its moment, certainly does not give it the reward, and it will only be with the passage of time as creation if it is sedimentally and remains in memory of what we are as society. So we hope to achieve unanimity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To announce that the BNG Parliamentary Group will support this initiative which comes to raise a demand that is being made, I believe that in its entirety, the organizations – not only of the State, but also of Galicia – that are affected by this measure. We share the position clearly expressed in that manifesto for the right to continue to be created, in which they mention the serious consequences of this measure; a measure that goes against the intellectual development of our society, preventing the authors from continuing to create when they reached their retirement age. Also because we consider this to be a measure that deprotects our creators and creators, especially those who have lower incomes, who cannot complete their pensions with the fruit of their knowledge. Surely, if we analyze the impact of this measure on Galicia, we'll see how there's a segment that doesn't have these low incomes, because many creators and creators have their pensions for their professions, but those few people who can devote themselves exclusively to creation actually have very low pensions. It would be interesting if the Councillor of Culture – absent, like the whole Government, in this debate – had to have met with the sector, to know what the perspectives are, and to bring to public light what is the reality behind the focus and screens of many of the people working in the field of cultural creation. And it would also be good if you had at some point listened to your voice in this debate. But by repeating the thread of intervention, he said that the last of the issues that we share in addition to this measure is not only because it goes against intellectual development, not only because it exposes our creators, but because it goes against their own contributions to the public estate, because at the moment when it ceases to be created, when there is an activity that is reduced and therefore left to produce, it is also going against our own errands and therefore the contribution that creators and creators make to the public archives. It seems very good to us that, in any case, today the People's Party recognises here the error of what Mr. Montoro has been doing in Madrid, of what has been doing the Government of the People's Party since 2013, and in a way much more accelerated in recent times, creating a very serious problem for creators and creators, who are accused of defrauding the public farm, and there is clearly a line in that direction, something that is being and that has been denounced in recent months in the press, and at least it would be good if there had been a real commitment to rectification and criticism to what has been done at that time. We defend the compatibility of the right to continue to create with people's pensions when they reach retirement age. First, because this is not a problem in most European countries, but they have compatibility; compatibility that also existed in the case of the Spanish State and that the People's Party decided to eliminate from 2013. And it's also an injustice in relation to other types of income that if they're compatible with retirement, like all income derived from the yields of capital or real estate. So we understand that cultural creation also has to be exceptional because it does not, of course, make sense. We understand that this campaign that launched the Central Government, the Government of the PP, against the creators and creators is a destructive campaign, is a campaign that goes against knowledge, against a more educated society. And, in any case, what it puts on is one more drop in a stream of actions against culture; a culture that for us must clearly be food not only for a critical society, but for a more free society. Let me give you the last thirty seconds to add to all these voices that are asking for a free culture, a culture without bites, that have no bites, neither the puppeteers and puppeteers who are still in jail at the moment, and which is a shame. Because it is a democratic shame that in a state cultural creators are persecuted, in this case in the field of puppets, for using freedom of expression and for criticizing the abuse of power. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It is absolutely intolerable that this happens in a democracy. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u163	BNG won't shut up or be with those who are hunting witches. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u165	Mr President, I would like to thank the position in favour of this initiative from all groups. I understand the amendment tabled by the People's Group, and I believe that we will be able to achieve a transactional text that captures the idea that it proposes a creator's status and offers sufficient achievements to reassure the creators. Ladies and gentlemen, two supplementary data. First. When we talk about culture in Spain or Galicia, fundamental data must also be kept in mind. In Spain it represents 3.5 % of GDP, in Galicia around 2%. In Spain it employs half a million people, in Galicia, 30,000. But in addition to cultural activity, it produces synergies with many other sectors. In Spain, for example, 19 million cultural trips are produced annually, which obviously have an impact on other sectors of the economy. Last Saturday in an act at the Film Academy, where the Goya Awards were delivered, your president, Mr. Resines, offered an amazing gift. He said that in Spain, every minute of the day, 1,500 films are downloaded illegally. It is, of course, a very serious legal problem, but it is, above all, a very serious social problem, because it means that every minute of the day 1,500 people are defrauding everyone who lives on copyright, and also the industry that makes it possible – with its brokerage – to reach the consumer. If you break that value string through an illegal download, who is being harmed is the author, the middleman, the industry. This was in reference to the film industry, but we could say something like this, saving the distances, the record industry, the publishing industry and other cultural industries. Second reflection. Today, in the world where we are, in the postmodern world, there is no longer the figure of the intellectual, of the master to think, which has been so decisive for so many decades. That role has been replaced today, in this mild thought that characterizes us, by the media and social networks. And yet there are more creators than ever before that, with that work, what they are doing is to advance the debate of ideas and also the debate of values that characterizes Western societies and that both envy non-Western societies, re-writeing from day to day that palimpsis of ideas that is what we ultimately consider culture. Culture doesn't work under coercion, culture is the maximum expression of freedom, freedom of creation. That's why I think today this House is taking a step forward, perhaps small, but important, in order to continue to guarantee all our authors and artists that freedom of creation. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u166	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez and six other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the application in Galicia of the Organic Law for the improvement of the quality of education and the demand to be made by the Central Government in this regard
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u167	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mr. Pombo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG is once again bringing to this House a non-legislative proposal on LOMCE education law. One more, after the many initiatives discussed in this Parliament before and after December 10, 2013, in which it was published in the Official Gazette of the State. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, from this same rostrum, has on many occasions manifested itself against the approval of the LOMCE, and, once approved, claiming the derogation and paralysis of the LOMCE. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG considers LOMCE to be a completely harmful law for the interests of public education in Galicia because it first understands that it invades its own competences in education in our country and because it introduces legislative changes that seriously damage the quality of public education. From this very rostrum, ladies and gentlemen, we are calling for this Parliament's support to support an unconstitutional remedy against a law denying Galicia's educational powers. The People's Group has given up in our complaints to defend Galicia's own educational powers when other nations of the state, such as Euskadi and Catalonia, have defended their powers. We even debate in this Parliament the results of the resources of these nations and the achievements they have made, both in the application of the calendar of this law and in the language rights which are affected by the law itself. LOMCE, before and after its approval, stirred up the greatest opposition ever against an educational law. There were many protests, positions against them, mobilizations, strikes in teaching, in Galicia and outside Galicia. The Greek society has mobilized: many ANPA Welsh – I would say most of the ANPA public Welsh –, teaching unions, pedagogical renewal movements, student and political parties have called for the withdrawal of LOMCE. There were strikes, gathered from signatures by thousands and even fighting against the evidences of evaluation, which were the preamble of those revals that bring us back to frankism. Concentrations and proposals in this Parliament calling on Mr Education Counsellor – absent – a firm position to demand the withdrawal of LOMCE from that Minister of Education, the ineffable Mr Wert. Claims that other parliaments – I repeat – have made, and they still hold their wrist today. Not many days ago, Euskadi's Education Counsellor said that in the Basque Country this course was not going to apply the 6th evaluation and that they work on their own Basque design to evaluate the subject. Catalonia will also maintain its own proof that has been taking place since 2008, because they believe in their own education system in the country. But it's not just Euskadi and Catalonia, the vast majority of them are even putting resources before the Supreme to try to stop the evaluation tests. And there we have Andalusia, Asturias, Cantabria, Castela-A Mancha, Aragon, Balearic Islands, Extremadura, Navarra, Canary Islands, Valencian Community. Only the five magnificent, the autonomys governed exclusively by the People's Party, believe in continuing with the LOMCE ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, the BNG Parliamentary Group has on many occasions stated that LOMCE was born dead because most of the forces present in Congress had already announced its willingness to withdraw it if the correlation of forces changed. The BNG always said that it had to be removed because it was a recentralizing and Spanishizing law, which imposed a linguistic model that sought to eliminate teaching in English and that invaded the little competences that we intend to completely divert from the teaching of our social, historical, cultural and linguistic reality. Well, the results of the 20-D reflect a clear majority of the political organizations that spoke against LOMCE, and the Galega Inter-union Confederation in teaching, a majority organization of the public education in Galicia, addressed in particular to our group, and I suppose that everyone else, claiming to try the urgent paralysing and subsequent derogation from LOMCE. For the IGC-Essino there are many reasons for asking for this derogation. First of all, because it denies the multinational state configuration and promotes privatization, sexist, classist and confessional education. Because he understands that he secretes the student through itineraries in different teachings in the same compulsory teaching. Because it prevents the access of popular classes to education. Because it questions the universal right to education and the right to free, Greek, scientific and secular education by work and grace of budget cuts. He understands IGC-Essin as a neoliberal educational model, which conceives teaching as a commodity. It also understands that it facilitates the creation of different categories of centres; different categories that will be awarded with different resources. Where is the attention to diversity? Where's the inclusion? It also understands this central that laminates what was left of the participation and democratic management of the centers, imposing a hierarchical, business model that strengthens the confessionality of the educational system, because religion becomes the same academic consideration as the rest of the disciplines. It also calls for an affront to teachers, because teaching activities will be totally limited to preparing revalids, revalids that bring us back to frankism; a new social discrimination, as it expels students from the educational system with fewer resources and lacks in learning. Revalids, by the way, that only measure the results of exam subjects, stealing from the student a complete and comprehensive education in all areas and competences, while preventing the inclusion in education of the different national realities of the state to which we belong. For all these reasons – it has finished – the Parliamentary Group of the BNG calls for the support of all parliamentary groups to this non-legislative proposal that it submits and defends the BNG, but a proposal that calls for the totality of the German ANPA, the student organisations in our country, the union education organizations, pedagogical renewal movements, ultimately, the vast majority of the educational community. We call for support to urge the German Government to paralyze the application of LOMCE in Galicia and urge the Government of the State to repeal the Organic Law on the improvement of educational quality, the LOMCE law. For now, nothing else. I look forward to the support of the parliamentary groups for the withdrawal of a totally lethal and harmful law for the interests of public education in German. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u169	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Joint Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u170	Good morning. Thank you, President. Grey classes, the color in which my first youth passed. My childhood memories of the educational system that you're imposing on us, LOMCE; that you applaud at the same time as you slow down your investment and increase the cuts in public education. Children and children, who were separated by sex until their 10 years of age – so it was legal, not today – we memorized the contents of the Álvarez Encyclopedia or the books of the Six Barral Editorial – a little more scientific – it was a Catalan editorial – to prepare us for entry into the Bachelor's degree, the first revalation of frankism, to which two others followed and a proof of entry into the university. Grey and cold classes, presided over by the dictator's figure, today by the chosen son, King Bourbon, and the crucifix. Mispaid masters – even though they listen and have vigil the sentence: more hungry than a school teacher – imparted the teaching of all subjects, subjects with revised and censored content to the convenience of the regime, which denied national cultures and hid figures from our culture and literature such as Castile or Miguel Hernández. The language itself depreciated and relegated to the field of private or folk context. Cold and gray classes, with no material or resources. Some and some, very few, of those students and students, the daughters and children of the rich, the caicians, the nieces of the priests, had the opportunity to achieve higher education. And many, many, most of us, they and them, the daughters and the children of the working class, if they were lucky enough to be the oldest man, studied a career or were cured at the cost of the whole family sacrifice. And the daughters, the women, the cut and make and the courses of the Feminine Section. We have experienced the joy and satisfaction of the changes that have occurred in Spanish territory with the arrival of democracy, which has brought and improved a new public education system. And we watched with great sadness and concern the speed and effectiveness with which you dismantle the building piece. Revalities, memorization and discipline return as educational tools; they allow sex segregation; the poorly recognized and underpaid teaching body; they liquidate equal opportunities, which causes us to go back to decades in which the academic future and access to higher education, so it becomes a class issue again; they return to classes to religion and its cruel symbols. A law, the Wert Law, reactionary, Spanishist, classist, privatizer, confessional and deeply antidemocratic eliminates the School Council as a governing body, and the director or director, chosen by the Administration, has full powers to make unilateral decisions, such as proposing or rejecting the faculty proposed by the Administration. So, in times of which I speak, we couldn't protest, we lived under a dictatorial regime, today we live in democracy, or that's what they tell us. And if with merit it counts on LOMCE is to achieve the unity of the educational community as a whole against it. We support, support, this initiative in the hope that the current governments of the People's Party, in Galicia and Spain, will approve it in the form of the latest wishes of a dying man who tries not to leave accounts pending. They have the majority of parliament, they have the duty and the obligation to do so, the competences and demands of education society, so they get to work before it's too late. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u171	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good day again. The political loneliness in which the People's Party finds itself, its inability to conform to government in the state, its inability to find any kind of dialogue with any political force, has a great deal to do with the approval and the way in which it was brought forward to LOMCE. A law brought forward in absolute solitude by the People's Party, against all instances, against all organisms, against the social fabric of this country. Approved in solitude, an organic law of an absolutely poor single article, a sort of demouche of previous rules, a retreat of more than fifty years. The truth is, we've talked a lot, a lot, about LOMCE in this House, so it's little more to say than demanding its derogation. That's what we're saying, and it would be nice if you took responsibility for the Greek Government, paralyzing its application, which is being made to thrompicons and absolutely irresponsible. We called for the development of LOMCE curricula in Galicia to be paralysed. We call for the paralyzing and not for the reversing, and we even support the insubmission of families. We called for the development of the basic FP to be paralysed. We called for the establishment of a bilateral cooperation committee between Galicia and the State, as the Basque Country has done, so that at least LOMCE would respect those own identity elements in the area of Galicia's education. None of this was heard by the German Government, who had an absolutely submissive attitude with the State Government. It was, of course, Mr. Feijó, an advantaged student of Mr. Wert. And now, with the LOMCE already published and in force, you hear, the chordor, the mermaids of the search for an educational consensus, an educational pact. That's what we're invited to, that's what we're invited to be invited to citizenship, to find an education pact I suppose based on that law, with respect to LOMCE. And that's why it triggers initiatives like the white book, a white book that, as brilliant proposals and ideas, proposes the pay for performance to the professor, the setting up of rankings of centers, the external evaluation of the educational centers themselves. And we have his realization in Galicia. In recent times there has been a club of wise men, a forum of experts, in theory with the will to debate about education, but, yes, without any allusion to LOMCE, without any allusion to the derogation of this law. There is a consensus in this country, there is a social consensus in Galicia and the rest of the state, and that consensus is that LOMCE is an absolutely anti-pedagogical law, and therefore if you want to respect that social consensus and overcome the loneliness of the People's Party, there is no other way to derogate this law and start together – if, from there, its derogation – the construction of a new educational framework, a new educational model. The real possibility of finding any consensus must be based solely on that principle, the first signal that must be to derogate LOMCE. From there we will be able to walk, but, of course, from the Gaga de Left alternative we will always work to build an educational model, an educational system, at the service of society, at the service of building a more just, more emancipated, more democratic society, and therefore that respects the rights of the social majority. Not how LOMCE is doing, which, of course, is leading us not only to a stage of absolute crism in the educational community but also to absolute sadness in the centers themselves, because at this moment, they don't even know what it is that it landed on to plan teaching activities, because they obviously know that LOMCE has no future. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u173	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u174	Thank you, President. Well, ladies, good afternoon to all of you. You all know that the Socialist Group has been tremendously critical during the process of developing and implementing LOMCE, both in Spain and here in Galicia. We understand at the moment and we continue to understand today that this country had lost a new opportunity to provide once and for all the Spanish education system with stability. And it is very surprising that the People's Group, Mr. Farinas, had registered a non-legislative proposal in Congress on the achievement of a national pact on education last February 4. I'm saying it's surprising that you didn't look for it when you had an absolute majority and you're looking curiously for it now that you're about to pass the opposition. Frankly, I have no words, but, in any case, welcome to that responsibility that they didn't have or look for when they had you drunk power. And yes, the educational community is very insistently demanding this educational pact, and with the only desire to prevent educational laws from automatically changing each time a government changes. The Socialist Group has always considered that, despite what has been said with very little rigour, our education system has improved significantly in recent years. And what, ladies and gentlemen, about the hasty schedule of implementation of the law itself and the new curricula that have been imposed on the educational community in recent months? It is necessary to recognize that the Government of the People's Party has worked hard to put in place this new educational law that almost no one wanted, and to try to keep it tied and tight. But they forgot a little detail, they forgot nothing else and nothing but the pending general elections, and things didn't come out as you expected. The Socialist Group has warned this Parliament on many occasions that this could happen and that we would remember. We also said that both the German Government and the State Government were too in a hurry to implement LOMCE because they knew it was a law with a clear date of expiry. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that I asked Román Rodríguez in this very Parliament to address the Government of Spain so that they agreed with the new autonomous governments out of the autonomous elections to slow down the implementation schedule of LOMCE, but they didn't want to listen to us, even though they were asking for that twelve of the seventeen autonomous communities. They were also told that the general elections would very likely change the political map of this country, and I also told them that, by that time, the socialists would have memories and we would address the development of a new education law with broad social and political consensus and real capacity to last over time. We said that, at that time, we would start our way to reach the education investment of 7% of GDP in eight years; that we would begin to recover the huge amounts of resources lost in education, and in particular in teaching staff; that we would start gradually re-establishing the labor and professional conditions taken from our teachers and the amounts devoted to our students' scholarships. I have always supported, and I also support today, that in education there are no magic recipes. In education there is constant and sustained work in time. Education needs stability, of course, it needs resources too, but above all it needs to look after and respect the teacher, because without it there is no miraculous reform that improves the education system. I want to finish, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that LOMCE has suffered a direct attack on the floating line of this country's public school. For socialists that was clearly a red line that the People's Party passed without complexes, and they have to know that the Socialist Party will remember and act accordingly if Pedro Sánchez is invested as the new president of the Government of Spain in the coming weeks. That's what we're already working on, Mr. Pombo, and I can tell you that we've already held meetings at the end of January with different sectors of the educational community in this country to fulfill the commitment made by the Socialist Party to, firstly, paralyze and derogate LOMCE and, subsequently, to put us to work and get a stable regulatory framework with the ability to last in time, the only way we understand, to seriously achieve the improvement of any educational system. And I also want to tell you that the Socialist Group has already registered a non-legislative proposal in Congress of Deputies in that sense, being, by the way, one of our first measures for the new legislation. And I'm done now, Mr. Pombo, saying that our will to paralyze and overthrow LOMCE is still standing. It's now about looking for ways to do it as soon as possible and with all legal guarantees. And for that we also need, everything must be said, the complicity, the vote, of at least 176 Members in the Congress of Deputies. We're going to work for that, and we're going to try to paralyze and derogate LOMCE and develop, that's yes, a new law that has the ability to last over time, because I think this is the only way to get education to improve and that this issue is about the future. So you will have that support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u175	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Farínas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be that since some people smell power it turns out they're beginning to change their speeches and start to see positive things from what we're happy about. If, on other occasions, you've begun to speak well of the vocational training and the good results you had, today you must recognize that the education system worked well, and there's even some stylistic novelty: for the first time in this House we heard Mr. Pombo talk about evaluation tests and not revalidations. We're moving forward now, it must be the proximity of the negotiations of the new government and the expectation that you can change the LOMCE. But well, I fear, Mr. Pombo, that you will have to resort to what prevented him from being in Madrid, at tides, and probably that depends already on Mr. Sánchez and Mr. Monedero's best. Unfortunately, I say, because I personally feel that BNG has no representation in Madrid. Ladies and gentlemen, from hatred and resentment, nothing is built, only more hatred and resentment. I didn't like your intervention, but not by what you said, but by how you said it and what you alluded to in your intervention. And with regard to the democracy that you have attributed to the People's Party, well, it's part of that democracy, that democracy that allows an abnormality like that of your group and the three representatives that you have to become a right in a democratic House. Those are the advantages of the opposition. [[Applause]] Your Honor, Mr. Vázquez, it doesn't give us such solitude, said so. Often it's worth more than bad company, don't forget that. And the House will continue to work and we'll have time to talk about it. And Galicia – don't forget that we're in a legislative chamber – of course it meets the laws. He complied with the educational laws of the Socialist Party, all, both LOXSE and LOE, and continues to comply with LOMCE. And you have no doubt that, if there is a change of government and if you derogate from LOMCE, we will also comply with what comes out of the new government in Madrid, we will abide by the law, as it cannot be otherwise. On the other hand, you continue on your crusade to derogate LOMCE, you have the right to do so. But remember one thing: they don't have any scientific criteria, just speech and automatic positions, you go out here with a repeat argumentary, which is exactly the same as talking about the quality of the education system or the suppression of a step by step. It's the PP's fault, it's always the PP's, and then all the PP's do is cancel it at first. Well, go on, but remember that they don't have a single educational indicator, not a single educational indicator, that accompanies their desire to derogate LOMCE. In Galicia, however, we have a model of our own, we have developed a model of our own, and a model that is producing results, different results, fulfilling LOMCE, LOE or LOXSE, to other communities where the results continue to be bad both with LOXSE, with LOE and with LOMCE, and probably with what comes after will still be bad. In any case, we have a firm commitment to the quality of the education system, firm with Galicia, firm with the Greeks, firm with the whole educational community, because we have that model of specificity itself in which we recognize Galicia's social reality, in which we recognize Galicia's history, culture and language, and therefore we receive the majority support of the people of Galicia. A model that works and keeps a high fidelity to history, to culture, to idiosyncrasy, to the form of being a people who want to be understood, who doesn't want to be attacked, not even from this rostrum. They're doing good and they don't like it, but I'm so sorry they don't like it. We will comply with the law and do not forget that we do not want to return – we will be careful – to that match below that you have made, which has put 150,000 Greeks on the street without completing studies that had no title or possibility of retraining, not even professionally. That's what the FP was born, which has already been well talked about in this House. We have already begun to recognize that we are guaranteeing equal opportunities, equal opportunities that are guaranteed by providing the same opportunities to all so that then each one will develop those that create suitable ones, but not...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u177	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u178	...by bringing them up with that 30% failure and dropout that you left school, which produced those over 150,000 Welsh and Welsh that were literally left on the street by the previous education system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u179	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u180	But then there were no demonstrations, not even questions to the president in this House, that we remember that the Government was asking questions here too in this House to its own president. Then there were no demonstrations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u181	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u182	...they weren't manipulating the ANPAs. We will continue with our crusade, Mr. President, to improve the education system of Galicia and the opportunities of the Greeks with any law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u183	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u184	Thank you, President. I thank, for the support, the Mixed Group, the Left Galician Alternative and the Socialist Party, for the support to paralyze and derogate the most contested LOMCE in our country's educational history, the most damaging for the Greek public education and the most privatising, which aims to turn education into a business. I regret the attitude of the People's Group, which dominates neoliberal ideology over educational interests. It follows with the five magnificent ones, which are Galicia, Rioja, Castela-León, Madrid and Murcia, the only ones who continue to defend a dead law. The rest of the communities, three out of every four students across the state, most of the political forces in Congress, most of the educational community in our country, want to end with LOMCE to bring about a new, stable, sustainable education law that counts with the educational community – something that it has not done – that counts with the majority, that counts with the autonomous communities and that recognizes the historical and educational cultural reality of our country, and at the state level, the multi-nationality, to bring about a new law that gives priority to the quality of public education. The People's Group will vote against it. BNG believes that urgent measures must be taken to paralyze and request the derogation of this law, which can be taken in the scope of the application calendar and in the scope of the articulation of the evidence, Mr Farinha, of evaluation and of revalision, because in order to have the title of ESO there must be a proof which revalidates this title, in the fourth, and in the second LAC one must have another. So we're in the opinion of eliminating them; it's possible, and it shows them communities that do so. I want to regret, of course, that the People's Group bets on neoliberal ideology over a bet on the quality of public education, regret what the People's Group is doing and call on our country's educational community to defend public education. We, of course, the Bloc Parliamentary Group, will continue to support the measures proposed by the educational community outside this Parliament to fight against the negative effects of LOMCE, which in this course more than 20,000 students in our country will see in the the thesis that was seen in the past course of boycotting a proof that brings nothing, that brings nothing positive to the country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u185	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u186	We move on to the vote on non-legislative proposals. We voted on the first non-law proposal. The amendments tabled were not accepted, and we therefore voted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to adherence to drug treatment in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 32. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u187	We then vote on the non-legislative proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez García, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and the European Union in relation to the practice of dumping, or unfair competition, in the transport of goods by road. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u188	We then vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, in relation to the Royal Decree 900/2015 of 9 October, so the self-consumption of electricity is regulated. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the Royal Decree 900/2015 of 9 October, so the self-consumption of electricity is regulated The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u189	Let us now vote on the following proposal, not by law. The amendments tabled have not been accepted; we therefore voted. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and seven other Members, on the launch by the Government of Galicia of a market program in the Way of Santiago. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 40; votes against, 31; abstention, 1. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u190	We then vote on the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The rapporteur has already expressed his support for the amendment of the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the G.P of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and two other Members, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Galician Parliament of a package of measures to correct the demographic situation in Galicia and to facilitate young people from Greece's access to work on their land. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u191	We voted for the non-legislative proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the Galician Aquaculture Act. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Motion for a non-law of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Rodas Chapela, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the drafting presented by the Preliminary draft of the Galician Aquaculture Act. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u192	We voted in favour of a non-law proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia on the amendment of the necessary rules to allow the compatibility of the collection of pensions with the copyrights. There's a transaction, I think. If you'd like to read me Mr. Méndez Romeo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u193	Yes. The compromise text reads as follows: "The Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to demand the Spanish Government: 1)the modification of the rules necessary to allow the compatibility of the perception of pensions with those derived from copyright. 2) to address the representative organisations of the sector and the copyright management entities a statute of the creator/creator that contemplates the different types of professional situations and the corresponding mechanisms of social protection as a safeguard of the rights of creators."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u194	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. If that gets us to the services of the House... thank you. We therefore vote for the transaction that has just been read. We vote. Voting of the compromised text of the Non-Legal Proposal of the G.P of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr José Luis Méndez Romeu and two other Members, on the demand by the Government of Galicia to the central government for the implementation of the necessary regulatory amendments to allow the compatibility of the perception of pensions with those derived from copyright. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u195	We now vote for the non-legislative proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Voting of the G.P.'s non-legislative proposal of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez and six other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the application in Galicia of the Organic Law to improve the quality of education and the demand to be made to the Central Government in this regard. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u196	Before I go through the interrogations, the groups give me an institutional statement that I have to read. "The Galician Parliament agrees to express its support to the eight Airbus trade unionists, in the confidence of their honesty and in the recognition of their long work for years, who has reported benefits to the company and to the set of workers and workers, committed to using all means at our disposal to defend the right to strike and the other rights of workers and the freedom of expression of citizenship." Thank you very much. We therefore began to debate, as announced in the turn of the agenda, the next question. Interpellation by Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso, from G.P. of the Galician Alternative, on the impact of the Galician Aquaculture Law Anti-Project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u197	Mr. Fajardo has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u198	Good afternoon to all of us again. I would like to thank the Bureau for accepting the request to change the agenda so that this question has now been put into effect and, therefore, the members of the sea sector who accompany us could be present. But thank you so far. From now on we have to be strong, and the first question we have to ask is that the People's Party has just voted against the withdrawal of a law that they recognize is not valid. So I ask you to assume I'm a fraud and a farce for the sea sector. And, therefore, an adviser who has been committed to a law for eight years that is actually rejected by the entire area of the country's sea, by many coastal municipalities, by all opposition groups, and by a very important part of the People's Party, has to leave office and leave the Sea Council of this country, because it is not recognized by most of the sector. So today I solemnly ask you to leave your office. And I ask you, in addition, because you have committed support for a standard, and the only argument you have for this situation of saving time now is what Mr. Balsairo put on the table today, the big argument for the whole of the sea sector: "We are so many, but from the cars we know to depart." It's a re-edition of that "I was thrown into the Colacao; I didn't know what I was doing." It's an absurd thing that compels the two irresponsibles to resign from this rule, and it doesn't make any sense that they continue to defend what there is no argument to defend. So I hope that, by democratic health and by criteria of justice, once and for all we understand that we are not faced with a historic mistake of the Galician Union, we are faced with a decision to end our productive sectors and, therefore, to end with a way of exploiting the sea, which has been generating wealth in the country for many years, and the Council wants to end it. You will have to explain here today in this House what interests it defends, whether those of the majority of society or if you defend the interests of four multinationals who want to do business with our country, with our laughs and with the significant amount of hundreds of millions of euros that will come from the European Union. So today you have the opportunity: whether the multinationals are placed or the seafood sector and our sea is placed. And don't take the hair off them, don't fool them, because it's embarrassing the intervention the People's Party had recently in this same forum saying that it spoke on behalf of the sector; a sector that doesn't want to meet with you, that doesn't recognize it as an interlocutor and that is putting it in a clear way that removes the norm and from there we start talking about zero. And you don't want to listen to this sector. I'd like you to define what you mean when you speak of consensus. What consensus does it refer to, even to the consensus of the siege? Are you referring to the consensus to seek out four grateful stomachs that enable you to sign what is unacceptable? Is that the consensus you want? Or does the consensus of the whole sector raised against a rule that they know is the conversion of the sea and which therefore ends this sector? And I'm not going to let you continue to cheat on citizenship. The first deception: the other day you had the nerve to say in a media that this had already been debated with the marishes in a marishing encounter, and it was false. It was fake! So much so that at that meeting of marishers the press release you made – that you did, that you did not make the marishers – said that they would deal with the issues of equality, the classification of the aquatic areas, the protection of the quality of the water and the special regime of the sea workers; in no case of aquaculture. Why do people lie? Why do you want to cheat? Just like when they cheat on saying that our organization defends what you're defending now. And mind because, when you read things, you have to read them. And I'm going to read it because, at least, it served the claims, that you read the allegations we made to the Coastal Development Plan and Galician aquaculture. And we said, "(...) it requires defining a clear aquaculture production model that bets on sustainability, based on herbivore species, molluscs and algae, with a multitrophic integrated approach...". In no case fish, as you accused me here. He said I wanted to introduce the cultivation of the panga in Galicia. You deceive the sector, mind, reverse the documentation and you are also capable of trying to defend what is indefensible. I ask you to explain to me today whether any of the things I'm going to say here is a lie, with arguments, with decrees, with laws; with some argument that goes beyond that "cars we know how to get away." The first question, the occupation of the sea. Of course, you're not going to start selling the bats to the multinationals, of course, but they're going to take over the sea, they're going to rip up the boat sector and they're going to force the cruise sector to be a sector that can only be dedicated to selling their shellfish for the feeding of the fishhouses or to purify those things that destroy the fishhouses. When we talk about occupation, you should explain to me how you may have decided in Europe to move that you could do by means of the auction method the grant award; or how it is possible that with this model, where the articulated one clearly tells you that you will take into account national legislation, those who achieve the marine use will not have to pay for that exploitation, by the square meters of the exploitation Tell me whether you will have to pay or not, and if you have to pay for it, tell me how much the cannon will be that they have to bear the confrries or the groups of marishers. Tell me, too, if it isn't any less true that you've already raised a key element: in case we've just gotten along and given that occupation to the marishers or the confrereries, we're also going to do our best so that we can intervene and dissolve these groupings. And, as I told you earlier, they come up with the performance schedule after they passed the law: "Reform of the Conferraria Law" and "Reform of the functions of the Marishing Groups." What do you mean by this? Can you guarantee that, if plan A doesn't work, by plan B, throw out our maricadores and our bottlenecks from the laughs? Tell me if in this process of occupation of the sea they have not determined in the law that aquaculture will be given priority and that therefore there will be areas of exclusion. What does exclusion zones mean? That where there is a aquaculture plantation there will be an area of exclusion which covers a lot of square meters and which, therefore, cannot be done any kind of activity. Explain to me how it is possible for the law to determine the elimination of the previous environmental criteria to grant such concession. How is it possible to eliminate the environmental criteria before an occupation which means pollution, which means spole and which means leaving our sea to waste and which very likely does not grow anything where there is a type of such holdings? Have you done any study on how the introduction of exogenous species – and we're not talking about the Japanese, which you always say – can intervene in this country's marine ecosystems, which, if they are from American multinationals, can also be addressed genetically? That's reality: salmon treated genetically in our rivers running from the fishworks and competing with our species. Explain to me how it's possible for you to suggest that the aquaculture of carnivorous fish should be promoted, which is an aberration in terms of ecological maintenance and even energy. Four of the others are needed to feed a carnivorous fish. A barbarity! We need to keep in mind that the fishworks and the sea are to feed people; it is therefore the privatization of the sea, the expropriation of our sea. Tell me how you're going to explain to the whole set of coastal municipalities in this country that by this rule it will be possible to settle anywhere in the country, simply with a sectoral report of the Council, a planting of these characteristics, which will also have supramunicipal consideration and therefore the council itself will not be able to say whether or not you want it to be done. And explain to me how, in addition, the strategic and social determination of these plantations can lead to the expropriation of private owners to settle down. Tell me, too, whether that's true or not. And explain to me how, if it seemed little enough to attack our mariners in this law, a new process was contemplated to expel them from their surroundings. And a process, which is the sanctioning character. If a seamstress has uncut plums today it can have a penalty of 120 to 300 euros; with the new standard, at least 3,000 euros. Do you know how much a seamstress earns in this country? He doesn't make 3,000 euros. For a single penalty it won't give you everything you earn in a year, to pay that one penalty. Therefore, you must, once and for all, withdraw the rule, withdraw from the Council and leave the field open to those who believe in our area of the sea, those who do not attack the siege, those who do not attack our traditional fishing, those who understand that more and better work can be done on our coast. When you arrive, do you remember the promise you made of jobs in the shellfish? Where are the 10,000 jobs you committed to? Oh, right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] How much did he say, 5,500? Where are the jobs? Where are your promises and your commitments? We're going to try to explain to the citizen that we can't afford to end up with a rational exploitation model, which also gives many jobs. How is it possible that you are insulting our sector of the sea to multinationals? That, moreover, they will not spend their profits here, but will take them out; and therefore, they are also condemning the ruin not only to the mariners, not only to the fishermen, not only to the mexillan sector of this country, but also to the industry of these peoples, to the trade of these peoples, to the hospitality of these peoples. And explain how we're going to compete with that so-called quality tourism when we can't produce for our gastronomy quality products from our sea because they're looted by multinationals and full of drugs from these facilities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u199	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u200	We're in front of the perfect bomb of destruction of our sea, and you're still defending and saying that from cars they know how to get away. Get away from the Council, leave the Council, abandon the project, and start from scratch with a new model. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u201	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. You have the word now, Counselor of the Sea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Fajardo, as you well say, 15 days ago I answered a similar question in this House that I also wondered if we were willing to make a decision that is already being made and that even you could know live and first-hand. Frankly, I don't feel bad about saying that maybe we're wrong in the information process of this draft law, that we're correcting it to take the endorsement of the sector itself, to whom that law is being directed, and that we're still considering it as a tool to fill many legal loopholes that can carry on with the future of our aquaculture activity. What really hurts me is that you, who is the representative of very respectable voters, do not offer the correct and truthful information and forget the rigor and the realization in that message. Because I refer to what you expressed on this initiative a month ago and what you came to say here today, and, after you've offered additional information, you're going back to failure to the truth, and I tell you from your heart, that's not the best way. I'm surprised you haven't asked for many aspects of this law why you might have doubts or concerns and yes along the political path of it; let me tell you that I just prefer the opposite, to put the sector ahead of politics itself. So in order to clarify a number of issues that you claim without being rude, I think we should first put several questions on the table to try to clarify them, and I do so for their own good. I'm saying this because if everything that transmits in those briefings is so, you're even lying on the title of these days, because instead you should call it "disinformation meetings." I start with the explanatory statement and I let you know that, first, this law does not incorporate the supramunicipal character of the plans and expropriations of the land because you will know – still taking little time in water issues – that both issues have already been carried out earlier and even in the times of the Bipartite. But what you obviously say is that precisely with the aquaculture planning we are promoting, in this case the Coastal Aquaculture Director Plan allows the municipalities to have more decision-making capacity and to define areas where aquaculture can be done. Second. This law does not incorporate anything new as regards the private use of the public domain. I don't think you're against objectivity, publicity, transparency and free competition in any public process. It's more about experience, economic capacity and performance, I think there's no one more qualified than our shipowners and our mariners. And, as evidenced by this, there are the more than 500 bats and the 300 crop parks that were sold between 2011 and 2015 in Galicia and which remained in the hands of the sector. But what you're obvious is that we have established a minimum period of development of the ten-year activity since the change of access to the title to avoid speculation and bad practice in this sense. Third. This law does not incorporate thrust as a method of access to the private use of the public domain; it is not true and nothing changes. As you may well know, no figure of private use of the public domain that no longer collects the Spanish legal order is introduced. And if you've already spoken of a statement by the Committee of the Regions, understanding that this committee can change the competence framework, shut down and let's go. Similarly, fishing practice, seafood practice and aquaculture practice have always been conditional on obtaining authorization or granting the use of public domain. At sea you cannot perform any activity at any point; that is yes, you always need an administrative figure. But what you're obvious is that this dictates what you mean, unanimously approved by a forum with governments of all colors and which brings together in its content the European regional spaces, collects different formulas that have vigency in those spaces. He didn't only refer to Galicia and not everything is applicable in Galicia; he won't see in this law, however much he seeks, neither push nor auction for access to public domain. Fourth. This law does not envisage withdrawing aid from the seamstresses; they have been accessing collective projects and other support for management and improvement. Now yes, with this new European Maritime Fisheries Fund and access to aquaculture status, they could have access to other complementary aids from those they have received. I'll just ask you to read Article 54. You don't read the whole law if you don't want to, but at least read this article, which is what provides for the possibility of converting shellfish into aquaculture in a voluntary way and maintaining the collective structure of activity. Moreover, we don't know why you want to prevent seafarers from accessing the aid for unemployment by toxins, as the drummers did, or the help to subscribe to insurance that beats mortality by laughter; tell them why. Fifth. This law does not promote large spaces of land or sea to take them out to traditional activities, nothing further from reality. You're affirming it for free without thinking of whether the Lira fishhouse, Europe's largest wheeled farm, took off fishing for the ships that work in the marine reserve of the Miners. When you have the answer, please tell me. Sixth. This law does not impose a multitrophic aquaculture, as you asked in writing two years ago, or much less. You claim free of charge that this law does such a thing with the same tranquility and lack of rigour with which it criticizes carnivorous fish species, as if they were dragons of the sea or we were to cultivate pirañas of the Amazon. I say this because you speak cheerfully without knowing that all the species of fish on the Greek coast are carnivorous or omnivorous, and that, yes, aims to get us here the defense of the herbivore species. And, look, I'm going to read to you – because the things you write have to read them well – what you write, and it says, "Setting a plan director of coastal aquaculture requires defining a clear aquaculture production model that bets on sustainability, based on herbivorous species, molluscs and algae, with a multitrophic integrated approach and with labelling and strict environmental control measures." I say it in case you can't read well what you wrote two years ago. He's trying to get us here to defend herbivore species by hammering it. And you must tell the sector that those species that you want to cultivate are the carp, the tilapia or the panga, other than these waters; unlike rolling, the tongue or the trout. In addition, you are obvious and telling us about uneffective measures of clearance without even knowing what European, state and autonomous legislation says about this matter and how it is being applied here in Galicia, and if you had visited some fishworks, you could see the rigour that applies. Seventh. As far as sanctions are concerned, I'm just going to make a reflection on you so that you can speak more correctly about the very high accounts and the expulsion of traditional activities. I address the same to the good understanding of the sector. How much is it worth the prestige and the guarantee of the Galician production of mexillon if you find yourself with a dissalted who does things wrong when you close a polygon? Should we deter him? Is that worth between 30,000 and 600,000 euros? How much is the seafood production of some laughs if we meet with an unconscious who makes a mollusc dive with some pathology? Should we deter him? Is that value between 3,000 and 30,000 euros? After these questions you referred to, I think I can address your question, already repeated, and already aware of the answer on which reason the Council does not hear the unanimous cry from the area of the Greek Sea and immediately withdraws the draft law of aquaculture. I think you didn't hear the president's answer 15 days ago or mine on the same day in the afternoon. There is a firm commitment by the Government of Galicia that no aquaculture law will be passed without the support of the sector, and that while professionals do not see that the norm is born precisely to support them, this law will not see the light. We're talking to people. I don't know what is the reason for asking us to withdraw this text, which would prevent us from sitting down and shaping the dialogue and consensus that a part of the sector was asking for. This draft is stopped, as many of us have been asked to withdraw it now. It has to be said that this is a draft draft draft draft, which has not even resulted in the initial approval by the Board of Directors to collect the relevant reports. It is therefore a mere draft which cannot be withdrawn because in any legislative process it is, and where all its content – I have said it by active and passive – is liable to change, without red lines. But I only ask one thing: that it is not about misleading the sector, and that those who say that the law is not the problem, but what is hidden behind it, heed the words of those who say that the protests are not the problem, but what is hidden behind them. I don't want it repeated in aquaculture what happened with the declaration of the milk production of our livestock and the establishment of a quota...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u203	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u204	I don't want to repeat what happened to some seamstresses, who listened to the siren chants that told them they didn't pay and reached the age of 65 without a pension. I don't want to repeat the refusal of a highway that has turned from being a knife to Galicia to being a fundamental artery to this land and to be asked to assume its competition. I say this because I want to look into the eyes of the sailors...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u205	It's over, it's over. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u206	...the seafarers and the drummers. I do it now, and I know I can do it in the future. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Others don't know what they can do because now they don't have the support of work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u208	...in defense of this sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u209	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u210	Good again. The truth is, the continuity of the advisor's tricks, without assuming the reality of his law, is more concerned than when we start this session. You've finished by saying that paralysing had to do with a paralysing while the sector does not see that the norm is positive for the sector. So you're not proposing to renegotiate the rule with the sector, which says you don't want it, but try to convince them that this is what they have to accept, whether they want it or not. And it comes to that reflection to say that this is like when AP-9 was rejected; we mix churals with merins because he knows he has no defense. I'm going to explain to you some questions that I think are serious about you. You can't as much as responsible for the Galician Sea to fool the seamen of this country. Look, in the European fisheries funds, it is quite clear that you can use those funds as already already the shellfish and subsidize stops. It makes Article 8 very clear that the fishery and aquaculture products listed in Annex 1 to the Treaty on European Union will be products. And Annex 1 to the Treaty on Union speaks of fish, crustaceans and molluscs and says: "...the methods of aquaculture which are recognised by the European Union." What a coincidence! Aquaculture methods that the European Union recognises, including mollusc breeding in bats or also mollusc raising on the beach. That's the document that throws everything you said down. There's no need for the Marishers to move so they can accommodate the aid of the European Fisheries Fund. Ah! But that's the way you later can enter into that equality that says of publicity, equality and capacity and merit to grant the concession of those holdings. Can you compete with a pool of seafooders with a multinational on economic criteria? Not in technology and innovation? No, no, no, no. You're trying to cheat on citizenship in an absolutely blatant way. You can't treat things that aren't the same. You will have to explain why Portugal has been the initiative of the Galician Council to tell Europe that it is legislate, that it prefers Europe to legislate, and that it opts for auction. That's in the documents; that's in the documents that Mr Maneiro took Europe to do. What's the criterion? What I dare not do, let Europe do, because in Europe it's much harder to protest, and then I say, "It comes from Europe." Don't mix one thing with the other. Don't tell me about the protection it has to do with the environmental criteria of the fishworks. Are you going to tell me how you're going to control on a water sheet, for example, in the Arousa River; a water sheet fishhouse with exotic species and carnivores on its inputs? How will it be done? How will the escapes of these species be controlled at the pool of the river? Do you have any control over that? Do you know the situation of this same type of performance on the Chilean coast or on the Norwegian coast? That's the model Mr. Feijóo defended. Mr. Feijóo said that for Galicia he wanted the model of Alaska and Norway; two countries, two backs that have the same thing to do with us: Norway, thousands of meters deep, and the Greek laughter are as they are, I'm not Norway. So you're trying to put the blame on others for an initiative that you've proposed and that goes against the whole sector. Look, when you tell me about Galician Coastal Aquaculture Development Plan, tell me the truth. That plan is open. It says: 100% of the territory of Galicia is likely to have a plantation. And to remove the environmental criteria, if there is protection in an area, it will suffice with a sectoral report from the Galician Union; from you, it will also report for this to be updated. Of course, you're not going to take another day and throw a confrere out of your space, but you're going to end up doing it because you're tightening up your space, because you're putting in competitions, and because, in addition, you're going to make a mess of your natural space, where your products are reproduced, when what you have to do is comply with European regulations. And European legislation says that the conservation of water quality is responsible to the Galician Union and that, therefore, when a vessel cannot sell its product because water does not have the appropriate health criteria, or when a mariner cannot sell it for the same reason, it is not the mariner or drummer, it is the Galician Union, which is responsible for keeping water in perfect conditions. And you guys don't do anything about it. I therefore ask you to stop fooling yourself and assume what they said: withdraw the norm, start with zero. Like you're done? Don't start bothering your head. It's not the same thing to say that we paralyze to gain time with the only objective of a mobilization, a social uprising, to extinguish the burn, which they know then it's very difficult to turn it on again. You want to flatten a move to make time and apply the knee, because behind this is the same thing that López Veiga has already tried, Galicia 2010. Don't fool anyone, this is the same model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u211	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u212	...and they won't step back. Why? Because I told him you defended him. What is your defense, the multinationals or the marishes? I asked you a direct question. How much will it cost the groups and the confreres to keep these concessions? If you can explain these things to me and don't get away with AP-9, I'd like to thank you, because if it's not clear that you're defending a model and we're defending another...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u213	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u214	...you defend the multinationals and we defend fishing and aquaculture as we understand them now in this country, with the mussels and the seamstresses. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u215	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u216	Good morning. The truth is, this is a bit tragic, Mr. Fajardo. You were asking Mr. Balsairo, spokesperson for the People's Group, and I had abandoned our responsibilities for attacking the sector. The truth is that a Member has the shame of lying to people like he's lying to him. I don't know what he has to do, because you're mixing everything here, mixing what the draft law makes with what the Director Plan of Aquaculture puts down and why he puts the Galician Strategy of Aquaculture, and without reading any of the documents, because if you read one of the documents, I don't know where you can get all these things that you came from today to say here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, are you able to tell me today that, like the European Maritime Fisheries Fund, seafarers can accommodate themselves on temporary halt to activity? Can you tell me that? Have you read the definition of fishing, of shellfish and of aquaculture? And you don't realize that fishing is that activity that is carried out from a boat and that, therefore, mariners to fleet, how do they perform activity from a boat, if you can accommodate the aid, but the mariners don't, because it's neither aquaculture nor fishing? You don't understand that fishing can also extract fish, molluscs and crustaceans, of course, but that activity has nothing to do with aquaculture. Don't fool people. Where do we come from by restricting space to marishers? Go talk to some confrereries, to the Coruña, for example, or to the Anllóns River Marshal Association. There, crop parks have expired to private people for failing to comply with concession rules, and those parks that have expired to private people have been handed over to the confrereries that have been integrated into their farm plan. If that's hard work, get God down and see him. Are you going to tell me that you're going to defend the maricadoras better than you're talking to them? I won't allow it. And what I'm saying I've never lied to. I didn't say at that time we weren't going to remove the law. Where am I going to remove a law that is not placed anywhere but at the table of debate, where is it to be, looking for the improvement of this law? [[Applause]] How can you tell me that I'm trying to make time when I say that there are no red lines, that everything can be spoken and that what we have is to cover the legal gaps that exist today? This law, this preliminary draft law, does not change any administrative figures. The Spanish legal system says that the exploitation of public domain will take place under two figures: concession and authorization. Don't fool people with the Committee of the Regions' Aquaculture Ditam, who have been charged with doing so to Galicia and who from Galicia has done it, but we have to incorporate all the public domain management figures that have all the regions of the European Union. Then, each region, within the Union of Europe, will apply its legal system. In Spain, neither auction nor thrust is contemplated, nor will it be found in any of the points in article 10 of the preliminary draft of this law. Here we always talk about concessions and authorizations. What I want is to keep the person responsible in front of the Council, either me or any other; what I want is to give arbitrary consideration to the leaders of the representatives of the sector; what I want is not to speculate on the purchase and sale of bats. And that's why I'm saying, can you make an inter-living title change? Yes, but those who buy it, at least, will stay in business for 10 years to prevent a capitalist lord from buying one day yes and another also a beat and making money by selling it. Is that speculation? [[Applause]] No, sir. I'm defending that you can develop a multitrophic aquaculture. It's not thanks in this law. In this law containsplase, as contemplated in the Plan Director of Coastal Aquaculture and as contemplated in the Welsh Strategy of Aquaculture. Contain multitrophic aquaculture as a possibility for those who want to develop it. But I'm telling you that carnivorous fish are not monsters of seven heads, it's the ball, it's the wolf, it's the mux, it's the sardine, it's the yard... man, please, let's not scare people. The only thing you're trying to do is to continue to defend the sea sector, the coastal sector, the seafarers, so that they can better order their business. On that line we will always work, Mr. Fajardo. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u217	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m. Thank you. [[The session is suspended at 3:2 p.m. and resumed at 6:30 p.m.]] Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and two other G.P. Members. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Greek Government in the field of psychogeriatric care
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u218	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u219	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. Look, before we get into the debate on this question, I want to ask you a question. Tell me, Counsellor, when you will appear, as we have asked you from our group, to explain to us the measures that Sergas will take in relation to the entry into force – by the day of Christmas – of the Royal Decree of Prescription of Nursing, especially, Counsellor, now that the Supreme Court has refused paralysing, while the appeal brought before me, among others, by the negotiators themselves of the decree. Look, it's intolerable, Mr. Almuño, that the staff of the public health system in Galicia continue without knowing that he has come before something so decisive for his daily activity, for the development of his daily activity. I don't know what's going on, I don't know if you don't know what to say about it or, what's worse, you don't know what to do. Look, I'm going to ask you to expand – which expands, yes, Counselor – because you have all the nursing at the foot of the horses. Look at this barbarity of an outgoing health ministry, and ask you, ask Madrid to withdraw that decree as they have already done from other autonomous communities. You can't forget that nursing is key to the functioning of our health system and, of course, mental health care. That's why we don't understand how we're training mental health nursing, and yet then we don't take it into account either in the recruitment lists or in the OPE squares. And, look, Mr. Almuña, there are so many and so varied problems in mental health that, even though we have finished the previous session talking about mental health, we have to restart this by continuing to talk about mental health problems, and yet there are many aspects left to deal with, such as, for example, that of specialized nursing, that of the forgotten addictions or even what we want to deal with today, which are the psychogeriatric units. By the way, speaking of where we left him last year, I have to answer to something you asked me then. And yes, Counselor, yes, indeed, I am nervous. Of course, I find it impossible not to see it as an ineffective and sovereign People's Party to destroy, to ruin, and above all, to privatise, Mr. Counsellor, the Greek public health system; a system that has so much work and effort needed to be placed where it was before the arrival of Mr. Feijóo to the presidency of the Government of the United States. Every day effort and work done by all professionals, but also throughout the entire citizenship of Galicia, which, by the way, Mr. Almuña, is as nervous as I am, as he explains or as he shows that more than two and a half million people in Spain are taking anxiolytics on a regular basis, and 15% of the population of Greece is doing it sporadicly. Look, psychogeria, as you know, takes care of the mental health of older people in a broad spectrum that goes from prevention, looking for what is so in the heart of healthy mental aging, until the diagnosis and treatment of very diverse clinical situations; so diverse that they range from cognitive deterioration itself to the affective disorders of older people, personality disorders, anxiety problems, depression, dementia, psychosis and even addictions, Counsellor, which are also present in these ages. Very varied and very complex pathologies that need a specialization to know them and to be treated properly. We have, and you're sure you know it well, to start distinguishing all these pathologies to end with that tailoring box called senile disability. And we can't forget in these cases of comorbidity and pluripathology, which, of course, come to complicate things in the old age. For all this every day we have more clear that in order to be able to provide quality generic care, a multidisciplinary approach is essential, where it has undoubtedly to be present at psychogeria, because of the high incidence of these pathologies in the elderly person. But all that I'm saying is already known on December 15, 1994, when Decree 389/1994 was passed, which regulated mental health care in Galicia. That is why, Counsellor, in that decree the psychogeriatric units were already regarded as a basic and necessary care device in every health area. And it was also known when the June Council of 5 November 2006, chaired by Mr. Touriño, approved the Strategic Mental Health Plan of Galicia 2006-2011, prepared by the way, with the participation of more than 200 professionals in our community. And as if you knew, Counselor, in that strategic mental health plan, these units were developed. By the way, Counselor, we are, as you must also know, in 2016, five years later, and you are still without giving any continuity to that plan. Tell us also when you're thinking about developing a new mental health plan. But as well as in the psychogeriatric units, it is expected that psychiatric support and care will be provided to elderly homes, these units are now more necessary than ever, because I remind you that it was the People's Party that closed the damaged – and that we will not deny – hospital psychiatric rehabilitation units that we had in Ourense, in Vigo, in Lugo... but sending the patients who were there the treatment to third-aged residences, without preparing specific care. Counsellor, since the decree governing mental health care in Galicia includes among the basic care devices the psychogeriatric units and since in its 2014 Sergas Strategy they are also collected, although with the "deploying psychogeria programs," we say, how many units are working today in Galicia? Is there psycho-geriatry in all health areas – not in the EOXI, Counsellor, in every health area – as provided for in the decree? Is there more than one unit in the larger health areas? If so, which one do you sing? How many units have you created and how many have you deleted since they arrived in the government? What kind of equipment does each of these units count on? Do all units count on the same number of professionals and the same type of professionals? In all these professional units of these different categories are part-time, or are they full-time? In how many public residences do you pay this attention, Mr. Almuña?, how many days a week? And tell us, because I'm curious to know, as if they're taking care of them in private homes and in concerts. And I'm done, maybe the Government will increase these units? I look forward to your answers and, for now, nothing more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u221	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon to all. The truth is that she asks me, Mrs. Acuña, about something that... I'm here on this case because there's a formal request from her and two other ladies to be here. There's no problem talking about the nursing decree. I'm just here today because I was asked to talk about psychogeria. And I also think there's no problem. Of course, the German Government considers fundamental nursing – and so we always say – in the Greek public system, and what is not said, unless the honourable lady is guessed, is whether the outgoing Government is what made the decree. I don't know; I don't know if you have any more information at this time. But, of course, the Galician Union was not present in the negotiations, and we are prepared to be able to inform and basically know the actions that you have to take each one at the time you have the negotiation, which have been for months, and theoretically reached an agreement that has been concluded in an agreement of the Council of Ministers. What if – not to dilate the information you ask us – is that comprehensive health care for mental disorders and drug addictions is one of the priority areas of action of the Greek Health Administration, as reflected in the review of the Health Priority Plan 2014-2016. The Strategy of Sergas contemplates specific actions in mental health. The Galego Health Service is making significant progress in caring for patients with mental health needs in recent years. In this context the elders constitute a group of special risks to the suffering of a mental disorder. Therefore, this review of the Health Priority Plan includes among its objectives different actions to improve early diagnosis and care quality and to increase the prevention of complications of depression and neuropsychiatric disorder, which, together with dementia, are more often presented in this age range. Therefore, in line with international recommendations, WHO's 2013-2020 Mental Health Action Plan and Sergas' Strategy identify elders as a specific collective with differentiated needs and formulate as an objective the development of care programs in psychogeria. Different panels of experts such as the Consensus of the Spanish Society of Psychiatry for the Treatment of Depression in the Elderly and the Spanish Consensus for the Treatment of Dementies of WHO stress that specific training is needed for the management of these pathologies, which exceeds the scope of primary care, and the need for an integrated community approach to ensure accessibility. However – and this is very important, Your Honor – they do not define the low structure of such assistance. They say that assistance must be carried out, but not the structure that must guarantee such assistance. And in this line to the Mental Health Strategy of the National Health System states that "the autonomous communities will adapt their services to the needs of older people." There is therefore no single model at national or international level to address the mental health problems of this collective. The World Health Organization, through the Plan of Action on Mental Health – which I previously commented – 2013-2020, recommends in this sense correcting disparities and taking active measures to identify and provide adequate support to groups who present special risk of mental illness and have difficulty in accessing services. It should be noted that only 4 of the 17 autonomous communities – including these 4 Galician communities – have specific devices for community care for the elderly's mental health. In the rest of the communities, programmes are carried out in Community adult devices, i.e., from an aideal point of view, the essential thing is to provide this service with solvency and quality, regardless of the specific designation or structure of the device. In our environment, as you know, the aid reorganization of the territory of Galicia has resulted in the formation of seven integrated management organisational structures (EOXI). There are mental health units in all of them. You make a difference between health and organized structure, the EOXI. We have been functional for some time now, we have the total integration of primary and specialized in these structures. Galician level is exactly, as you know, seven. As I say, we have mental health units in all EOXI, ensuring the provisions of the Strategic Mental Health Plan 2006-2011 in relation to the accessibility of the entire population in an isochrona less than an hour. Together, we currently count in Galicia with a total of 38 mental health units of adults, which are the basic devices for the outpatient treatment of mental health problems. In addition, specific devices and psychogeria programs exist in Galicia. As I said earlier, there are no autonomous communities – four of the seventeen – and, logically, the structure we have in Galicia essentially seeks a model that facilitates accessibility to services, both first and second, and provides quality care focused on the patient and his family from a multidisciplinary perspective, including the participation of different health specialities and social services. After these considerations, in response to their questions, the resources available to us in the different EOXIs for the mental health care of the elderly patient, both basic and specific, are the following, varying depending on the availability and specific needs of each area. Logically, there are important differences in population and ageing in Galicia, as you know, and there are provinces like Ourense and Lugo with a higher number of older people in the population. In the Coruña, in the integrated structure of the Coruña, as basic devices, we have ten mental health units of adults, and, as a complementary device, a socio-health program equipped with a psychiatrist, a psychologist and a social worker; that is, what seems logical and obvious, a multidisciplinary function of action with these patients. The types of centers that receive assistance are those of intellectual disability and brain damage, hostels and residential homes and residences older than 65 years of age. There are 14 healthcare centers attended and an estimated number of patients received attention from 344. The responsible units are the mental health units of Carballo and the psychogeriatric program, and they run two psychiatrists. In Santiago de Compostela we have, as basic devices, seven mental health units of adults and, as a complementary device, the psychogeriatric unit and the health program, equipped with two psychiatrists, a psychologist, a social worker and an administrative one. They receive assistance 14 socio-sanitary centers, and the number of patients attended is 200. The responsible units are the mental health unit of Lalín, The Barbanza and Arzua, and the psychogeriatric unit, and the program performs it the psychiatrist, the psychologist, the nurse, and the social worker. In Ferrol, as a basic device, we have three mental health units of adults; as a complementary device, a psychogeriatric unit and a social health program, equipped with a psychiatrist, an administrative and a social worker, and assisted seven residences over 65 years of age. The responsible units are the mental health unit of Ferrol, of the Spanish square, and the psychogeriatric unit, and they perform psychiatrists. In Lugo, Cervo and Monforte de Lemos, as basic devices, we have four mental health units of adults and, as a complementary device, a psychogeria unit and a socio-health program, equipped with a psychiatrist. They receive assistance 12 residences over 65 years of age. And the responsible units are the mental health unit of Monforte and Burela, the psychogeria unit, and they carry out psychiatrists. In Ourense – which you know perfectly – basic devices, four mental health units of adults; as a complementary device, a psychogeriatric program and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u222	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u223	...a socio-health program, equipped with two psychiatrists, a psychologist and a social worker, and assisted intellectual disability centers and residences older than 65 years old; a total of 20 centers. The responsible unit, the psychogeriatric program, and a psychiatrist carries it out. In Vigo, as basic devices, we have seven mental health units. As you know, in the area of Vigo, an integral reorganization of the area's hospital care and resource reorganization is taking place. In the case of psychiatry, if the rehabilitation and half-stay devices are transferred, sites at the Rebulón hospital... [[It sounds like a cell phone on the rostrum.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u224	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u225	...and the psychiatric hospitalization unit in the Cunqueiro Alvaro is already in full operation, centralizing resources, which favors its best use. Around this reorganization will also face psychogeriatric care, with added value such as Chuvi, at the disposal of an accredited hierarchy service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u226	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u227	Thank you, President. Counselor, I think they called him a psychogeriatric unit to warn him that he was confusing them with a mental health unit and that it's not the same. You started by saying that you were very worried about the nursing, because you're putting it out very well. The truth is, to be so worried, you've forgotten it. He said I was very informed because he was talking about a outgoing government, a farewell government. It's not about being very informed. I think it was Mr. Rajoy himself who decided to make a government, though the King asked him to. Then it'll be a good government, I say. But really, what I think is very little informed is you. Look, there is regulation of mental health in our community – I don't know elsewhere or in the state – here, Counsellor, and that's exactly what I was talking to you about, the French Decree of 1994, which regulates mental health care in our Autonomous Community. And in that decree, Counsellor, it contains as basic devices the psychogeria units, besides mental health units, psychiatric hospitals, etc. If you want, we see it one day together, but it looks like basic devices – I insist on the idea – psychogeriatric units. And not only that, but also the composition and functions of those units are detailed. And that decree, Counselor, is in force. The truth is, he didn't answer what I was asking him, and what he answered me had to tell him he didn't fit the truth. Look, I'm going to give you an example: The boat of Valdeorras, which I know well. Well, it's – you know – a health area because they tell us every day that they didn't delete the areas, that they didn't change the map. Well, in the health area of the ship of Valdeorras, according to the Vigorative Decree regulating mental health care, we would have to count on a psychogeria unit, and we don't have it; yes, indeed, we have a mental health unit, but not psychogeria, which proves that there is no psychogeria unit in each area, like, I insist, it regulates that decree. But look, in addition, where they are infred. And do you know, Counselor – that you were talking about Ourense – how is Ourense's psychogeriatric unit, the oldest province in Europe? So he has a psychiatrist, no psychologist, no social educator, no therapist, no mental health nurse. By the way, speaking of Ourense, you should also explain to us what motivated the closure of that psychogeria unit, which there was. Mrs. Núñez, the manager – "the very first", as we call her affectionately – decided to close it last spring, when it was working, Counsellor, since 1999. By the way, there was so much protest, so many protests, that it reopened on January 16th, and it must have used it to equip it conveniently, but no, it reopened it infradoted again. These units, Counsellor, must count on one or two psychiatrists, a psychologist, a social worker and a nursing professional, of course mental health specialist, but in practice it's not. Where there's a unit, at most, they've assigned a psychiatrist and, fortunately, a place of psychology, but in part time. Tell us, Counselor, since you're so worried about the nursing care of those units, even mental health units...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u228	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u229	... –I make it easier, from mental health units–, songs count on nursing and, above all, songs count on specialized nursing; mental health specialized nursing, which was created in 2007 and was recognized in the OPE of 2009, where nine squares of this specialty of nursing were convened. Since then, zero. It's a well-trained nurse, and you're only hiring her, because of the accumulation of tasks, a maximum of six months. And tell us, Counselor, what's going on with private residences and arranged residences. As if you pay attention to this, be it from the mental health unit...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u230	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u231	...are you from psychogeria units, across the public network? Tell us how to do that. How do you get the medication? How do you get a clinical history? How is medical and psychiatric care given from the public network to private and concerted residences without it being illegal? By the way, you've spoken to the Sociologist.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u232	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u233	Well, look, psychogeria units are a good way to start...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u235	...–end– the path in the right care, in the right socio-health care. But, above all, they are indispensable, I insist, to empty that chest of chests of senile dementia. If we want to give good mental health care at the age of three, we have to distinguish disease from disease, we have to give a specialization...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u236	You're done, Mrs. Acuña, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u237	...and you know it as well as I do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u238	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u239	Mrs. Acuña, you always start by saying that we don't have in Galicia, and then you say it's not complete, that you should have more personal and better attention... well, at least we start since you recognize that we have specialized care in Galicia. As we said, only in four autonomous communities of the 17th there is this sort of psychogeria. The decree has been in force since 94. You said that even within the four years of the Bipartite, the decree was also in force; that is to say – the time was exhausted in the first intervention – that the area of Pontevedra and O Salnes, which has three mental health units of adults, a complementary device with a psychogeria unit, a socio-sanitary program, equipped with a psychiatry, a psychologist and an administrative one, are assisted by residences older than 65 years of age, paying attention to approximately 100 patients. The responsible unit is, in this case, the psychogeriatric unit and it carries on psychiatrists. I mean, of course we're worried. In fact, an agreement was signed in 2011 where there was a collaboration and work lines were established between the Labour and Wellness Council at that time with Sergas to precisely care for patients with prolonged mental disorder and chronic health-stabilized course. Because when the change was made and the old psychiatric patients were left, it was treated that psychiatric patients according to the scientific norm were within the family resources and that only in acute treatments they ended up in the specialized services, except those who had no family support or those who due to other types of diseases had to be in residences, and for that reason this agreement was created perfectly... this agreement is being extended, it is not completed and finished, but today, last year, approximately 1,300 or 1,400 patients of these patients who were institutionalized in one, I think, inadequate treatment, at least the experts so consider it. [[Madam Acuña do Campo speaks words that are not perceived.]] Therefore, progress has been made in a very important way. As I say, our goal is to integrate the maximum in mental health into the common planning and care strategy for the whole Sergas. In the field of psychogeriatric care, as I said before, where we have to improve fundamentally is in the Vigo Upsi, and in the changes suffered in recent years we are reorganizing the whole existence of Vigo area, and in fact the psychiatric area was one of the ones that needed a greater push. In this sense, since just a few days ago, the patients who were at Rebulón Hospital – as you know in the municipality of Mos – have already been transferred to new units, to the new unit that is at Nicolás Peña, the old Municipal Hospital of Vigo, and there I have to announce, in addition to that, as I said before, the entire service of adult psychiatry has been integrated into the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, which in the second half of this year will be constituted the psychogery unit in the Vigo area, with which the Greek map is completed, the mental health care map, and that, of course, it has to have a periodic review in the staffing, in kind of assistance to improve it, as, logically, is our objective. In Ourense, who said you were the oldest province in Galicia, the previous psycho-consultation program was modified, which became part of the interconsultation and liaison program. This has facilitated the launch of the rapid pathway of attention to dementia, along with the neurology service, to give a preferential response to driving changes in dementia. The number of optimists dedicated to psychogeriatric population care has increased in two part-time optionals, maintaining the previous ones. To complete this data, we have to say that it is essential to support patients who are admitted to residence, because, as I said, those who do not have a family support, or that because of some other concomitant health problems they have to be in residences, logically we give them constant support to these patients. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Galego Health Service is carrying out, and will continue to do so, important advances in the care of patients with mental health needs, including what reaches psychogeriatric care. Mental health is one of the priority areas of the Welsh Health Administration, and together with our professionals we will continue to work on these lines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u240	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores' appeal by G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the precariousness of the labour market
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u241	To formulate the inquiry, you have the floor to Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u242	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. In Galicia there are still thousands of people immersed in the drama of unemployment, precarious employment, jobs that don't allow them to get out of the poor. Despite this official speech, which they so much like to repeat machaconically, that we advance raw and fast through the path of recovery, in spite of that denodado effort of the People's Party and the Greek Government to impose the report of recovery, for the reality is that this is not so; that reality does not appear to be the one that lives thousands of Greeks and Greeks every day. The reality is a situation of loss of social rights, an emergency situation, a situation that leads thousands of people to accept any job in any condition, for any salary, because the official doctrine is that any work is better than nothing. Today morning the president of the board, Núñez Feijóo, painted a multicolored country, the one who sang Avella Malla do you know: "A multicolored country, there's a president under the sun." A president who strives to paint us a Galician in the country of wonders. He said, textually, "it has become a job, it has diminished unemployment, and employment and unemployment have better behavior than in the state." And it was so quiet, wasn't it? It's been so quiet. And nothing further than reality, because the situation of the working class in Galicia is alarming, precariousness of their working conditions, high unemployment rates, loss of purchasing power of wages, uncontrolled subcontracting, recruitment through ETT and part-time contracts. The reality is that in Galicia there are more unemployed than when the People's Party returned to the United Nations government in 2009, 60,000 people, Greeks and Greeks, more in unemployment. And the reality is that Galicia has less busy than when Nuñez Feijóo and the People's Party returned to the Government of Galicia in 2009. In 2009 there were 1,152,900 people occupied, and now there are 1,032,000, that is, more than 120,000 people occupied less. Niñez Feijóo also said in the morning that 220,000 people are still in the economic crisis, but unfortunately not 220,000 people, they are much more, they are much more, because the crisis and the labour reforms they have carried out not only have done that indecent number of people in unemployment, but have led to the massive impoverishment of thousands more. The wage devaluation of labour market reforms, part-time employment accompaniment, the only thing that has done is to create labour poverty. And you know what labour poverty is, Mr. Conde? Well, job poverty is those people who theoretically have a job, because they can't perceive that job to develop a life project, that they're still poor, that they can't afford to develop a life project. And the problem is that it is becoming structural, labour poverty that is becoming structural, because that was the goal of labour reforms, that was the goal: cheap, atomized and disorganized labour. It was the goal, and you're the part that touches you, even though your responsibility is recent in the face of the question of government work of what you are part of, but you have collaborated enthusiastically to this reality. And look, in Galicia there are already more than 300,000 workers who earn less than the minimum inter-professional wage, which I remind you is EUR 648, i.e. 31% of people who work in Galicia get less than the minimum inter-professional wage. Data show that in Galicia there are 70,000 employees, with an annual salary below 5,000 euros. What does that mean? A monthly salary of 350 euros. Of these, 177,000 only reach 2,000 euros a year. What does that mean? Well, less than 150 euros a month. EUR 150, EUR 350, wages below the minimum interprofessional wage, EUR 700. What we're talking about is thousands of people in Galicia are under the poverty line, that's reality, that's the reality that you're trying to hide by distorting and twisting the figures everything they want. One third of the workers in Galicia don't reach the 1000 euros, those milleurists a few years ago seemed poor to ask, because today more than one third of the workers and workers in our country don't get to charge 1,000 euros. The wages in Galicia last year have dropped by 3.8%, i.e., I can still give you data, Mr. Conde, I can continue to give you data that suggests that we are facing a real tragedy of unemployment, as well as of labour poverty. Temporaryity, part-time employment is already becoming most, a very important part of employment, and on many occasions it's the only possibility, it's a part-time job not voluntarily chosen. It's not a voluntary option for people who access this type of contract, it's the only contract they can access. Ninety-two percent of the people with the lowest salary have an average day-to-day contract, a medium-day contract which means to charge on average a day-to-day basis and work on an entire day-to-day basis, or even more. And do you know what the reality of the contracts in Galicia is, those of you who want to hide by saying that they're lowering their jobs? An important part of the contracts in Galicia are 1 day, 1 week or 3 months. 1 week is 30% and 3 months is 50%. So you get the figures to end up giving them and you can get up here, as I suppose you'll do later, saying that you've dropped unemployment in Galicia, but this is the reality of the job you're creating in our country. The working day, the inflexibility of work, what does it mean?, expansion of the de facto day. What does it mean?, which mainly affects any contracts. What does it mean?, it means irregularity and it means exploitation. And then we have to add to the drama of the long-term unemployed, almost half of the 200 people who are unemployed in Galicia registered for almost 2 years in that situation. For BNG it's a real drama, just like it's a drama that 27 percent of young people don't study or work, i.e. they're unemployed, in many cases they're not even enrolled in unemployment lists, they don't study or work. Next drama, which labour poverty has a woman's face, faces boys and girls, and faces 55 years of age. The salary gap in Galicia, Counsellor, is the highest in the Spanish state and the highest in the European Union. And there are no indicators that make us feel that this situation is going to change, with which to conclude: stable job replacement with more or less decent wages, for precarious and poorly paid jobs. That's the reality of the labour market, to which it must be added that people who are unemployed are getting less and less benefits, and they cover them for much less, that is, people in unemployment, job poverty, and those who are in unemployment are getting less and less benefits. What's another situation? That the highest wages rise and the lowest wages fall. That wage rift, a female rift that keeps growing and a wage rift that doesn't stop growing. Look, during these years of crisis, what's the situation? That the lower wages are 10% lower. And what's the other side of the coin? That the highest wages increased by 24%, the least won still earn less, and the most won still earn more. Of course, the way we see the Galician Nationalist Block is a balance not to be exactly satisfied, we believe. What leaves all this behind? Well, it leaves precariousness and exclusion, leaves thousands at the stake, Mr. Count, at the stake, at that stake under the statistics that you handle. 73,000 families with all their members in unemployment, 30,000 homes without any income, 11,000 children living in homes where there is no income, paying less than five years ago. I mean, a real real mess, you just have to go out to the street to ask thousands of Welshmen and Greeks. That's why today's BNG asked him what action he's going to take to save the thousands of Greeks who are living in wage poverty, Counsellor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u243	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u244	...sumed in wage poverty. Industry 4.0 and employment 4.0, of which you so much like to assume, that is to say, it's your roadmap, it's recorded in the data I just gave it. I'm waiting for your reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u246	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Prado, ladies and gentlemen. I am grateful for your initiative, because every opportunity is always welcome to be able to explain in this House what the Government is doing for economic recovery and, above all, for this economic recovery to reach families who still suffer from the effects of unemployment. However, Your Honor, it is appropriate that in this House it should be a little more rigorous in its statements, because both for those here and for businesses, and for citizenship, I believe that all of us who work everywhere to reverse this situation deserve a little respect, especially when we talk about specific data and figures. And I'm telling you this since cordiality, because I'm convinced that although you intend to give the idea that this Government doesn't care about people and that this Government doesn't care about families, I believe – I'm convinced – that you and I share the common interest in the well-being of the Greeks and the Greeks; of course, our group and our government do so. But in order to get to the debate on ideas, Mrs Prado, I believe that information must be true, and you know, and look at it in this House, which almost all the indicators that measure economic activity and employment in Galicia are improving. And you know – and you don't reflect it in your intervention – that Galician evolution is more positive than the one registered by the Spanish ensemble. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, we know that, indeed, the steps we have taken are insufficient and this is not the first time that we have reflected it in this House. But, of course, I think we have to talk about reality, a reality that I regret goes against the interests of your party, but believe me that by denying it you are only fooling yourself, and you already know – I believe – the consequences. Consequences that are also due to the lack of memory of the BNG, because when you talk to me about the year 2009 – and you did that reference – seem to forget that you have been ruling the Board of Galicia for four years, occupying portfolios – as you know perfectly – in industry, in innovation, in rural environment or in welfare. And since you want to compare me to the year 2009, I'm going to make some comparisons too. Look, in the last year of the Bipartite, 51,304 people were registered at the Galician Employment Office, up to more than 211,000, which led to an annual increase of 32%. With this background you show no repair in discrediting the progress of recent years, obviously Galicia closed the year 2015 with 41,000 unemployed less than a year ago, which is a 15.6% drop. And he claims that Galicia is the worst-developed community, when this drop in unemployment is better at three percentage points than the average of Spain. And in fact, you also forget that our unemployment rate is 17.7%, also three points below that of the state. And you're not talking about that in the last year of the two-party government, 2009, membership in Social Security fell by 4.7%, when they're now growing, Your Honor, by 2%. The same doesn't say that in the year that they ceased to govern the growth of the German GDP was negative, in particular, fell by 2.6%; that is, just the percentage in which it grew this year 2015, but, Your Honor, in positive [[Murmurs.]] And if we talk about industry, comparison offers a similar result; in 2009 – to which you referred – the index of industrial production dropped by 12.6% in March 2009, with eight months of annual downloads, almost always of two digits. Today, Your Honor, the industrial production index closes the year 2015 with an increase of 4.1%. And if we talk about trade we are in the same situation, in March 2009 the sales of proximity trade fell in Galicia by 4.6% and in December of this year, Your Honor, they grew by 4.5%. We could continue to make comparisons that you so much like, but I believe, frankly, that we have to talk to a little bit of rigour and a little bit of seriousness. And no, of course, on the part of this Government, where you know, perfectly, that we are developing a policy that doesn't agree with yours, that's true. And it is also true, Your Honor, that there is indeed a great ideological difference between your party and us. The Greeks know that we are a government that first complies with the laws; secondly, respects and values the private initiative as well as the public initiative; thirdly, a government that supports investments that generate employment and wealth in Galicia; and finally, a government, lordship, realistic, because we do not deceive with demands and unreasonable proposals, because for that, Your Honor, you are already there. Just like they're defending an interventionist policy and a misunderstanding of Welsh that only seeks to isolate Galicia from the rest of the world. And besides, he is – and I deeply regret – his opposition to all that this Government proposes, at all times showing a permanent disregard for the initiatives that this Government is taking to Parliament and for the confidence that the Greeks have deposited in it. In fact, Your Honor, you tell me that if this Government lives in a certain country. I think you live in a bubble and people don't know what to do with BNG. You don't know how to land because you prefer that thousands of people go to the street in Pontevedra; because you, Your Honor, are opposed to the burden of work that marine wind for Ferrol; because you go against, permanently, mining policy, even with research projects. They don't even want to be investigated anymore, when we're talking about an activity that employs 7,000 people, which accounts for 1.2% of GDP. And they also oppose, for example, Reganosa's plant. I believe that, Your Honor, this is a small sample reflected both in the Ence, as in the windy Ferrol Navy, as in the mining, as in Reganosa, of the plans that the BNG has in this House. And I think it would be appropriate – and I say it with all due respect – to put their ideas in order and to present a solid country model. A model that – if allowed – should be away from the autocracy that the BNG promulgates, because, on the contrary, no one out of his bubble understands how we're going to live in Galicia. [[Applause]] But logically, you're telling me what this Government is doing, this Government is still working in the same direction as it has so far. Yes, Your Honor, with 20% more resources devoted to business promotion and employment policy, with much more flexibility. And for that it serves as an example that we have already activated 70% of all aid programs for this year 2016, with open calls and published in the Official Journal of Galicia, which amount to about 200 million euros. And logically, we also have a new scenario where we're working to promote new job opportunities. A roadmap – as you know – that is developing in consensus with economic and social agents, and that underlies the Strategy of Smart Specialization in Innovation, the Strategy of Internationalization and also the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, which you don't want to talk about. Because when you talk about industry, you just talk about layoffs and closures. [[Applause]] Instruments, ladies and gentlemen, to which a new employment agenda will soon be added according to and adapted to the situation and to the needs of our productive tissue, which aims to bring this recovery to all homes through employment, which is our goal. That fosters more quality employment, that promotes more equal employment and that workers will, of course, also regain their purchasing power. An agenda, ladies and gentlemen, that emerges from the conviction that employment is, of course, the best social policy a government can offer to citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u247	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Prado Cores has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u248	Well, Counselor, if you want to change and instead of being a government control session, let's turn it into a BNG control session. It's just that, well, look, it's pretty ridiculous; it's ridiculous, in a normal country you'd just portray yourself, you just took pictures. Look, I made a seven-year balance of the People's Party's Government, which is what you have to account for here. If you for all answers are only able to speak of a government that has ceased to be a government seven years ago: of course a perfect portrait; that proves enough of its management, shows enough, right? If you as the only resource has to go back to what has ceased to exist seven years ago, of course the Greeks and the Greeks should think about it a little bit. [[Murmurs.]] And you should take a look, see if you have a personality problem and you don't know what you are from the Government, see if you don't know; of course, it acts as if it wasn't, it's so sad for the country. If I hadn't gone because those who suffer the consequences are thousands of people until I would laugh, like you, but it's just not, the situation is dramatic. And indeed, you are to comply with the laws, and if the laws don't like to change them, if the laws don't like them or are not enough to benefit their businesses, they go and change them. As they did with the Law of the ground to be able to deliver to him in the tray thousands of euros and the stream from Pontevedra to Ence. Of course they comply with the laws, and if they don't change them and they measure them, that's what you do, Counselor. And, of course, I am very proud to have a different ideology than his, very proud, very proud of what I represent. Yes, I am nationalist, left-wing and BNG, indeed, I represent something very different from what the People's Party represents. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, you've repeated here today all the things that are against BNG, because we already know everything that is against BNG. I would also like to know what the People's Party is for that business. Today morning the workers of Sogama's dealership transport company met with the various parliamentary groups to move their huge concern about the eminent dismissal of 69 people who are currently forming the staff of the concessionaire company. It turns out that a public company such as Sogama takes out a few envelopes for a new concession and in the hundreds of pages that have these envelopes it turns out that they haven't found room to deal with the working conditions of the staff who have to perform their work in front of the company, and it turns out that they haven't had a single gap to talk about the subrogation of these workers and workers. A state-owned company dependent on the German Government. How about we meet at this point, Mr. Conde? I'm telling you because I'm going to ask you to be in favour, because the BNG is against everything, that the People's Party and you, as Labour Counsellor, are in favour of something. And I'm telling you, I ask you here on behalf of the workers, who were the ones who moved there to the political groups, who were you to take your side, to summon them. To invite the company, the administration and the workers through their union representatives to a table to try to avoid the dismissal of these 69 people and to avoid a serious deterioration of working conditions. Because, look, this is a clear example of labour poverty that I referred to. A practical case, these workers up to today with the company they had an average salary of 11,900 euros a month. Right now, what's the offer made by the company that's going to take the concession, Copasa? We don't talk about working conditions at the moment, in case we hire them from one to one and nothing in group. [[Murmurs.]] With which I here today, Mr. Conde, the placement that you are not of the non, be of the self, and be the Government at the service of the workers and workers of Galicia and not only of the companies. And to call them, to call that table to prevent 69 layoffs and to avoid unlimited precariousness in the labour market. And I asked you a question first, what are you going to do to rescue all those thousands of Galicians and Greeks in a job poverty situation? He couldn't deny me...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u249	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u250	...that there are those thousands of men and women who are in a position of work poverty. He wasn't able to deny it, nor was he able to say a single question that he was going to put into action to solve it, Mr. Count, he wasn't able to. Is it because you don't have them, or is it because your Government's objective is really to favour businesses? [[Murmurs.]] Your business, multiply your business; i.e. that you enthusiastically add to that which is that 1% of the population holds 99% of the benefits. Do you guys add up... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u251	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u252	... –I will finish, Mr President – that you are in the Government to consolidate the situation that 1% of the population – as they are denouncing different NGOs – is that in recent years the richer and richer and the more working class with less resources and a more precarious situation. I hope, since the questions for the BNG are over, if I don't answer them any other time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u254	If the questions for the BNG are finished, I'll be able to answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Prado, I understand perfectly that you do not want to enter the bottom of the debate that you yourself have raised, I have not moved any questions to you; I have given you a concrete account of the results that this Government is having, of the policies that this Government is having. The only thing I have shifted to you in an objective way is that you are clearly against everything, they are against industrial policy, they are against job creation, they are against initiatives that can effectively reverse the economic crisis situation, and I simply tell you this. This Government, ladies and gentlemen, is with the workers, it is with employment, and we are indeed promoting specific industrial policies, in the field of innovation, in the field of economic policy, in the field of specific internationalisation in which you do not want to, at any time – I say or support – enter the debate. We're going to continue with these policies, because we understand that they're policies that generate jobs, that generate opportunities for our people, and you're sorry that they're still installed on the non-industrial policy, that they're still installed on the non-energy policy, that they're still installed on the mining industry, that they're still not on the paper industry and they're finally installed on the non-industrial industry, generally here in Galicia. We will therefore continue with specific policies which we will bring to debate and present in this Parliament, logically, even if we do not, logically, contain support anymore, but simply with the contributions of its parliamentary group, but we will continue to produce concrete results. Because I gave him the data of current evolution, current, Your Honor, I didn't transfer any questions from the industrial production index in Galicia, the gross domestic product in Galicia, the unemployment rate, the social security affiliations... and I tell you more, Galicia, Your Honor, was the third Autonomous Community with the greatest increase in R & D expenditure in 2014. From the point of view of export, Galicia is placing record figures in this year 2015, last 2015, compared to 2013 and 2014. In short, we are clearly in a direction, or where we are recovering from the economic situation in Galicia, and we are going to work on an employment agenda. An employment agenda that will review and guide the policies developed in Galicia in favour of greater employment inclusion, which will continue to go ahead with the aid for recruitment, primacy, lordship, full-time stable employment. It will look for other formulas to stimulate quality in employment and, of course, we will also introduce measures that will be added to the work of the Labour Inspectorate, which this year will focus on monitoring contracts. You're telling me to transfer to you what the government's assessment of labour poverty is. You know, and you don't want to bring it to this Parliament, that the poverty risk rate in Galicia in 2014 is 15.4%, you know it perfectly. But he also knows that this rate of poverty risk in Galicia is far below the risk of poverty in the state as a whole, which is 22.2%. In fact, Your Honor, you know, and you don't want to reflect it in this House, that only three communities are improving the result of English: Basque Country, Navarre and Madrid. Specific data, and that risk rate, Your Honor, in Galicia has also experienced a 5 percent drop since 2009. If you want, we can also talk about wage developments. An average annual wage in 2014 exceeds the average wage in 2008 of 1,100 euros; it is an evolution to which the wage increase agreed in Galicia in November 2013 was 1.07 % in average terms, data that you should review them, at least if you want to conduct a debate with minimal rigour. So, Your Honor, we agree with the need to improve the wages of our workers, a situation that is far from the emergency situation that you want to reflect. Because as you know, Your Honor, you count the data in your own way. In 2015, Your Honor, there was a drop of 13,300 homes with all its members unemployed, which is a new addition to those 8,100 homes that came out of that situation the previous year. Therefore, the German homes, ladies and gentlemen, continue to suffer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u257	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u258	...a lack of employment of only 6.9%. A figure that, however small it is, of course, intolerable, that is why we will continue to work, Your Honor, through active employment policies and other measures, to effectively be, Your Honor, with the people. Because this government, this party, Your Honor, is with people, you don't, I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u259	We move on to the seventh item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government. Da María Terêcesa Paz Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the management of the presidency of the Ourense Provincial Deputy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u260	Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u261	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vice-President of the Union, we have been watching a new episode of the instrumentalization of institutions by the People's Party, of both personal and political instrumentalization, which is so stuporous in the Ourense Provincial Deputies. In honor of his inheritance, in this case in the most literal sense of the word, Mr. Baltar Blanco became a creditor of a family tradition, but also of a political tradition in Ourense, which consists of thinking that Deputy is the law of the People's Party and that, consequently, it can be used even by violating any principle of legality to hire or fire workers on the basis of personal or political interests, whether they are the people who hold power there or the People's Party. Three months without that until today, more than three months, the Government of Galician Union, neither you nor the president, have spoken in what way you deserve this matter. Three months in which they were failing to assume any kind of positioning, underscoring that there was no legal case, despite the fact that since the opposition we have always stated that here what they were claiming are political responsibilities. The government presided over by a gentleman who was about a year ago, on January 27, 2015, in a plenary session to re-establish democracy in this country, told us that he was coming here that day to tell us what he's going to do to keep fighting against the presence of those people who use politics for their own interests. We were employed, ladies and gentlemen, he told us ultimately to count on you also to make a transparent administration, to have greater internal and external control of political activity, to reduce the margin of manoeuvre of the undesirables. We'll be up to it. The Greeks demanded it. That's what Mr. President said. I ask you, Mr. Rueda, doesn't it seem undesirable for Mr. Baltar to offer jobs in parliament, even offer to manipulate the results of selective processes in exchange for sexual favors?; doesn't it seem to you that after more than three months, and when it's now cited for two crimes, one of bribery and one of influenza trafficking as investigated, it's time that the Government of Galician Union demands the clearance of political responsibilities?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u263	You're demanding that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Peace, your time is up. Thank you. Response by the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Peace, you say I haven't spoken on this matter. Yes, you asked me about this three months ago, and I made myself clear, just as I'm going to say now. I asked you at that moment that the judge was the holder, that cases were instructing as a representative of the Administration of Justice. Tell me here that we instrumentalize the institutions, because more instrumentalization than coming here dictate judgment replacing the courts does not happen to me honestly. So what I told you at that time is telling you exactly now, too. You do summarizing judgments, you condemn everyone who believes you should condemn, and then you look at how the subjects are. And three months ago he told me what we were going to do against Mr. Baltar, because you already condemned him for sexual harassment, and then the prosecutor arrived and said what he said. Of course, that, could be, would that lead you to prudence, thinking that in the rule of law it is the Judiciary that has to determine guilt, and in his case hide them. No, no, that doesn't lead her to prudence, at all, lead her right now to say again -- again you're a judge and a party, because this goes a lot of partiality, and you're a political partiality has all that in the world and more -- to come here dictate convictions in judicial cases that are simply in the state where they are, to demand political responsibilities, because you as a judge have already ruled out the convictions, and to say that we all act accordingly and dance the music that you play. Look, Mrs. Peace, the political trials, fortunately, have ended a long time ago, we're in the rule of law, what happens is that you haven't come to that yet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u266	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u267	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Wheel, I'm not a judge, even if I wanted I couldn't, because I don't meet the requirements to be. Perhaps if Mr. Baltar were the one to examine me, he could be, because it seems to him that the requirement "is passed through that place," precisely. [[Applause]] Look, Mr. Rueda, I think I've already said fifty times, at least, by talking about this matter, that we're not here to lay down criminal responsibilities, and I said again today that we were talking about directing political responsibilities, and I mentioned, by the way, a demonstration made by the President of Galician Council in this Chamber, in which he says that we are all the people we are in this Chamber to ensure that we put in place all the instruments so that the undesirables are not in politics and to make it difficult for the people trying to take advantage of the institutions for their benefit. The political trial, which is what we do in this institution, is what leads me to ask you whether you, as a Government and also as a party, do not abhor Mr Baltar's behavior in relation not only to the use and acceptance of sexual favors in exchange for an arbitrary job – which he himself acknowledges in the recordings – and aside from all legality, and whether, consequently, they will not request his resignation as political officer in the Ourense Provincial Deputy. Your fellow governmentman in the previous interpellation said that the BNGs are not installed, and you are installed. In fact, I just found that the Government of Galicia and you are set up to defend corrupt and abominable practices in front of public institutions. We are and will follow...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u268	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Your time is up. Closing time, Mr Vice-President and President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u269	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Peace, since you end your speech by saying a sentence again, you miss the bat, you are the judge, you are the judge. You say you're not a judge, least of all evil!, fortunately for everyone, if you don't tell him again that we would have the political judgments against the rule of law here, and fortunately abolished by the Constitution, and you would do them in the first person and in a way, well, as he always does when he has to talk about these issues. Look, if a person who didn't know about this matter had read the statement of his question and listened to you here today, I'd think there's been a sentence, because you're talking like there was a sentence, and I'd think here... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u270	Quiet, Mrs. Martínez. Quiet. The question is from Mrs. Paz. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u271	I would also think that you don't respect what others say too much when you don't like what they say, but in that is democracy, Mrs Peace, in that and in not giving judgements, precisely in that! So when you hear what you're saying, you'd think that the sentence is already handed down, and that we're here, that we're responsible for executing it. And neither are you responsible for making judgments, nor are we responsible for executing any judgement. Listening to you is what it looks like, fortunately not, because we have a rule of law. Also, if a person didn't know about the case and had listened to it from you, when he spoke many times about what he thought and what the prosecutor said about the first pronouncement he had to make when the accusation was different, maybe you thought he didn't deserve any trust or any respect from the prosecutor's institution. Of course, when he went to take the words, as if it were catechism, of what the prosecutor said about another case that was in the House of Ourense, about the former president, there if the prosecutor was worth it, and whether you were worth the legal proceedings as they go or not, and so we can't believe in a democratic system, and if anyone, Mrs. Paz, who had not known this matter had heard you talk about justice, I would think you believe in justice, I don't know if you are in your own, but believe in justice. But of course, thinking that you said a sentence that affected you, and what your group said, that they welcomed you, but I didn't share it, in the end it may be that I didn't know her, but as I already know her quite well, I can't really talk to you about justice, honestly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u272	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Ramón Vázquez Díaz and five other Members of the G.P. Alternative Galaga de Lefta, on NATO maneuvers in the province of Lugo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u273	Good afternoon, Mr. Rueda. Mr. Vice-President, you will agree with me that the lie supports different clothes, different forms and different categories. There's the trick, the slander, the deception. However, from my point of view, the lowest category is undoubtedly the mistress. The mistress presupposes inability and lack of wittyness in the other and this is one of the specialties of the People's Party. AGE has repeatedly denounced the use of the Rozas aerodrome as a base of military drones serving NATO. The German Government has always denied it. Nevertheless, on September 12, the army's GROSA group tested Dron Secher in Rozas to achieve the required certifications and thus be able to participate in NATO maneuvers in Zaragoza. AGE denounced the installation of concerts, that shameful wire in the Parga military camp, 20 kilometers short of Rozas. Now, on recent dates, we know that at the end of January 6 battalions, with troops from 6 countries that make up NATO's rapid intervention force, performed maneuvers at the Parga military camp, with the aim, according to the Ministry of Defence itself, of planning high-intensity operations integrating the various combat functions. These tests were carried out without notice, without even communicating their beginning to the vicinity, a neighborhood that day by day came to appear dozens of armoured military vehicles and hundreds of soldiers. These NATO maneuvers were carried out in an unconceived space and facility for this purpose, with dwellings only 300 metres away, which were broken by the power of the shooting used. Manoeuvres developed in neighbouring mountains that were the object of a forced assignment during the Franco-Cranch dictatorship, in order to establish a school of engineers, never a field of shooting. [[Murmurs.]] They invaded neighboring lands and roads, causing damage and damage to the heavy military machinery used. Information has been hidden from the neighbors, information has been hidden from the citizenry, but the most serious thing is that it is hiding that the Tea Land of Lugo is remilitarizing itself as a strategic zone for NATO's control of the Atlantic Corn. That's the reality. It's hidden that they're putting Greek territory and resources in NATO service. [[Murmurs.]] Are you aware, government gentlemen, of the risk this entails to Galicia? Do you know that the NATO Rapid Intervention Group has prepared in Parga the next planned exercises on the border with Russia in June? You know that? Are they aware of the role we are playing in this second cold war in the service of NATO, where we are all being served by an explosive cocktail mixing jihadist threat, the refugee crisis, border control, the war of Ukraine, the conflicts of the Middle East and Africa? Are you aware of the seriousness and involvement of these facts?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u274	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. [[Mr. Vázquez Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Vázquez, your time is up. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. [[Applause]] Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vázquez, you've already started your question by talking about mistresses. Well, I'm not going to tell you ladies, we're going to talk about accuracy, and to talk about accuracy, I'm going to ask some questions, I know what you and I are asking, but some rhetorical questions and to try to answer exactly what you ask me. The first, do we agree that the Constitution, in its Article 149(1), states that the State has exclusive competence in the field of defence? Yes or no? Of course, you may not agree with the Constitution, but the Constitution is what it says and, therefore, it must be just as if it were a sentence, which Mrs. Paz would say. Secondly, do we agree that the field of maneuvers, which is exactly called Field of maneuvers and shooting of Santa Cruz de Parga, is a field of maneuvers held by the Ministry of Defence? Yes or no? Thirdly, do we agree that the Spanish State, Spain, is part of the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance since 1982, with the allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Alliance? Yes or no? For if we agree on all this, it really costs me to understand how the Government of Greece comes here to answer why the Spanish Ministry of Defence, with exclusive competence, makes manoeuvres in a field of military maneuvers with its allies who have been in NATO since 1982. You come to ask me why that is. So look, I'm telling you exactly, because it's the Spanish state that has exclusive defence competence, does it in a field of military maneuvers to do that with its allies who are in NATO. That's why... and that's the assessment given by the Government of Galicia. From there, Mr. Vázquez, gives me the opportunity to answer a number of things, because they're not true. Look, there haven't been concerts in that maneuvering field for ages. Now there's a metal fence of a meter and a half height that surrounds all that. There's no more concerts, there's no more hobos, you brought me here to ask for them and those concerts no more; in your question you say they still exist and you just said it. It also tells me about the military uses of drones. There are no military uses. We've just seen how it's something many companies want to use, it's like a pole of attraction for the economic impulse of Lugo and Galicia, which is good enough for us. You're determined to destroy all that, I don't know why. In any case, of course, if of all those ornaments that you make in your question about the concerts, about military uses, about why military maneuvers are made in a field of military maneuvers, and all that, we logically answer, the question would probably be meaningless in my opinion, humbly; but of course, it wouldn't look so good, and perhaps it couldn't do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u276	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u277	It seems, Mr. Rueda, that it makes you strange that after the realization of NATO military maneuvers in Galicia we, in the exercise of our function of control over the Government, are asking for them, it's a tremendously strange thing that we ask, but it's something that doesn't happen every day, I suppose, that a multinational force of thousands of men with armored vehicles moves to a place where concerts were previously installed – I didn't say at any time that these concerts were still present – and they retired in June at a cost of 220,000 euros; they retired in June at the request of the Nationalist Block Galego, an amendment that we also present. Please don't hold the arguments to that point and let them know a little bit. [[Murmurs.]] And this is the way the People's Party has to understand the function of control. Yes, sir, escape the answer, make circles and circulars. You lied and you know it, we know why they installed the concerts, it wasn't by chance, we know it; as we also knew what was going on in Rozas, and we also know that what's going on in Rozas is related to what's going on in the Parga camp. What we don't understand is why you hide it and why you cheat on citizenship. I answer the questions, I don't do as you do. With regard to your first question, yes, I agree. With regard to the second question, no, I disagree; the transfer agreement of the lands of the neighboring mountains made in the 1940s by the neighbors of Parga was for the installation of a school of engineers, not a field of shooting. This assignment agreement is being breached. I disagree. Third question, if I agree. What I don't agree with you is that Spain's defence powers are NATO, they're not NATO, they're Spanish. So it doesn't make me strange that there's a Spanish army in the Parga military camp, which if it makes me strange, and that's why I ask him here, is that he paints a multinational force...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u278	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Thank you. [[Mr. Vázquez Díaz utters words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. [[Applause]] Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vázquez, I would tell you before I'm perfectly aware that the question makes you, but I'm glad you answer the questions that I ask you, because that way we can focus on the subject a little bit. It's good that the questions come out to see what little girls are. Now we know that the concertinas were a lady, you tell me that I'm well informed or that I'm not informed. You said a moment ago that there were still concerts... for that is the Journal of Sessions, fortunately. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They're gone, they're gone, fortunately. [[Murmurs.]] Tell me I'm missing the answer. I'll tell you again, the question is, what do you think the Government of Greece is that there are manoeuvres made by the Spanish Government in a field of maneuvers to maneuver or what valuation do we make with NATO allies? Well, I think they're doing their job. I remember when I was told by a BNG deputy, who is not now, with regard to the actions in Brilat, that the problem was that Brilat was an invading army. Of course, if that's the approach, we're never going to agree. And if that's your approach, we'll never agree either. In any case, Mr. Vázquez, you were talking about the Galician Syriza, if the model is... If the model is to put the red lines saying that in no case, as they have just said in Greece, if it comes out of NATO, the military expenses are not lowered, which is called the Defence Minister to a representative of the ultra-right party that is ruling with the Syriza party in Greece, if that's their model, that's not ours; then we won't agree to talking about military maneuvers. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, I'm just wondering, to focus on the question and see where we are each. If it was the Government of the People's Party... which was saying that 37 years later, or those who go, if it were to recover for the Minister of Defence not a civilian, but a military, which was what coordinated the participation, through NATO, by the way, of Spain in Afghanistan and Libya, if they were to put it as a Minister of Defence and if they told me that this is their model of defense, they would say that ours is not. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So we don't agree on this either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u280	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Mr Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the complaints made regarding the resolution of the General Secretariat of Equality concerning the aid to the ANPA of public educational centres and aimed at performing extra-school and complementary activities to facilitate the reconciliation of personal, labour and family life
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u281	You have the word Mr. Docasar Docasar
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u282	All right, thank you, president. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Wheel, welcome. Over the past few weeks, the Socialist Group has arrived with a lot of complaints from the ANPAs of educational centres, due to a resolution by the General Secretariat of Equality published in the DOG on December 28th, curiously on the day of the innocent. The aim of this resolution was to grant aid financed by the European Social Fund to the ANPA by 80 per cent of public-funded Greek educational centres, designed to carry out extra-school and complementary activities to facilitate the reconciliation of personal, labour and family life. The above-mentioned resolution by the General Secretariat of Equality states that only those families with incomes less than 6.5 times from IPREM can be subsidised, actually turning ANPAs into branches of the Fatenda delegations, or even private detective offices. It also reflects the above-mentioned resolution, Mr Rueda, that the grant to each child will have an amount of EUR 1.10, which is totally insufficient to properly handle activities that are costing, in many cases, between EUR 5 and EUR 7, and which can, in certain circumstances, reach more innovative activities up to EUR 20 per hour. They also consider the collectives of the ANPA, Mr Rueda, that the evaluation criteria are in many surrealistic cases, because they think they even go against the purpose of the grant. Another of the issues that the beneficiaries of the aid question have to do with their own processing of the justification for the collection of subsidies, as there are an infinity of concepts and documentation that completely exceeds the work of the ANPA itself. And it serves as an example, Mr. Rueda, of what we say is the request to attach the declaration of each family's income, for the refusal it has, on the one hand, that one particular gives each other its declaration of income and, on the other hand, its own existing regulations regarding data protection. And all this without counting neither the enormous bureaucratic and administrative work that the leaders of the ANPA would have to develop. There's also another fact that should make you think, Mr. Rueda. I am referring in particular to the fact that you had to send a communication to the educational centres to ask them to encourage the participation of ANPAs in this kind of aid. Does the Socialist Group understand that the issues we have just discussed deserve, first, an explanation and then a correction from the Galician Council, and that is precisely why we ask you: what do you plan to do, if you plan to do something, to fix this anomalous situation that denounces the ANPAs of the Greek educational centres? By the way, Mr. Rueda, if you really want to fix this situation, sit down with Confapa Galicia and take their sensible suggestions. Here, by the way, I have two letters that I would like to deliver to you later, if you don't have any drawback, which you sent them with: one letter is for Mr. Education Counsellor and one is for you. For my part, nothing else in this first round, and I hope you're sensitive to solving this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u283	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u284	Mr. President. Mr Docasar, in fact, I am aware of this problem, because it is a problem, in addition, that has been reflected by the media quite in recent weeks as a result of the call made by the General Secretariat for Equality for Grants this year. I think you will agree with me, of course, that everything the Administration does to fight against gender-based violence and to promote equality and non-discrimination, and by conciliation, which is also a way, even if it is indirect, to fight against all previous issues, will be fine. And that was the reason for us to go to the ANPAs to encourage them to ask for these subsidies, in view of the confusion that we are aware of, because it's logical, when they tell us that there are things that are not clear. We are perfectly aware that there are things that need to be clarified, and that there are no grants left without asking for a misunderstanding of the requirements of the grant. Indeed, this year there has been a change of opinion, and you will agree with me, too, that the obligation of the Administration is to have how much more money to encourage these types of actions with enough money. And just as until now, in the period just ended European funding these actions were subsidised with the European Social Fund, it is also so now; the case is that in the new period 2014-2020 – it has started for practical purposes with this call – the criteria for the use of the European Social Fund have changed and, therefore, our obligation is to reflect those changes in order to request the justifications of the order, and to try to smooth them and facilitate them as much as possible. It is true that we are asking, and that it is being asked, because – I insist – these are criteria of the European Social Fund, with which they are fed and fed such aid, to set a simplified cost, – obliging the European Social Fund – also to establish a subsidisable maximum cost – obliging the European Social Fund. In the replica, we can talk about whether the numbers are matches or not. But it's also true that it was now asked to believe the income of the families they're asking for. It is true that this was – at least, what has come to us – the greatest difficulty that they put the ANPAs, not the only one, but rather that it produced more trouble or impediments when they could apply for the grant. And you know that there was a meeting of the General Secretariat of Equality with those affected in which it was agreed that they either did it directly or authorized it. And that's got to talk to the parents, but that can be done by an ANPA; I think that's how far it can be. And yet I insist that it is necessary to access funds that authorize the General Secretariat of Equality so that they can consult the data in the Tax Agency. I think this is an important step; many parenting associations have satisfied them, at least the fundamental problem they had. We are aware that there are others and we will try to solve them, but I believe that the fundamental obligation and the objective to continue to have these funds are that the criteria for using them are others, and among all I hope that we will be able to go and make it easier for these subsidies to be asked, because what we are all interested in is reconciliation, and reconciliation is true that it is achieved through these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u285	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u286	Thank you, President. Mr. Rueda, of course I share the objective of this kind of aid, I would miss it more! of the question of reconciling the working and family life of families, but what you can't doubt is that families have a discomfort, and you have to try to give them a solution. That's why I'd like to get out of here today with the idea that this is going to be taken seriously to try to solve it and be able to make sure that this is what families tell us, which is very reasonable, can be solved. The reasons they say are clear, there are procedures that are overwhelming and inexhaustible – you also just recognized it – that they prefer them, sometimes not to ask for help before they ask for it. There's that circular that was sent to the centers precisely to encourage, to ask the ANPAs to ask for subsidies, because they weren't asking for them, Mr. Rueda, that's the reality. And I'll also put some more examples of things they don't like, the grants offered to them are incompatible with any other public aid. It is impossible for you, Mr. Rueda, to make a prediction of how many children and children will go to a certain activity, so setting up an budget is practically impossible. You ask the ANPA to study the family and work contours of each family that participates in the activities, all that is being asked of you. You ask them, too, to establish goals of improving their situation, through their own activity, very sensitive data, by the way, that few families are willing to share, or the ANPA manage them. They have the condition to make a statement of income to all families who are subsidised. Finally, Mr. Rueda, the ANPAs – to achieve the grants – are forced to perform a whole series of performances for those who are not ready, giving all the impression – or that is what they feel – that there are the aids but that they will not be able to spend these important funds, precisely because people will not ask for them, and they are not actually asking for them. So, Mr. Rueda, write down, sit down with the ANPAs listen to their reasonable arguments and are also interested in solving this matter. Confapa Galicia, I insist, has been asking for an audience since January 22nd, both to you and to the Education Counsellor; they receive and, once and for all, fix this unfortunate situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u287	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u288	Mr. Docasar, the aid is being requested, aside from asking how logically, but the criteria have changed, it makes sense that until this is clear it can reduce the number of applications, and it is also an obligation of the Administration to make the ANPA available and tell them that if there are any kind of difficulties that we will be able to solve them as far as possible. There are others, I mean, and we don't fool anyone, who are new demands of the European Social Fund. We all try to facilitate the procedures so that they can be carried out, but you will also agree with me that they must be carried out. I mean, I pick up those letters very gladly, I think I know the demands, and we're trying to solve them. I insist that the main one, which was the request for tax data to the different families to accommodate grants, that's already settled, may be asked by the General Secretariat of Equality, simply if you have to authorize, but that's happening in other subsidies and I think a lot of the problem is solved. And what is not compatible with other aids, indeed, was already happening before, not in this concrete aid, but in another similar way, and all we can say is that we have to diversify the requests and what is asked for here, because logically you can ask for another specific activity to be done by the ANPAs another kind of aid with respect to another grant order. Here it is true that they are incompatible, because they are incompatible with the European Social Fund itself. You can do other things, instead, that they asked us, like when more than ten students were asked for activity. We have already put an exception – and it is true that it was necessary for those smaller towns, smaller school units – where it might have been difficult to bring together ten students with exceptional power when a number of circumstances are given. So I think we're responding to one of the main requests that could actually be difficult in some cases: to join ten students for an activity. As for what is now being asked, which is also one of the things the ANPAs said, that from a certain level you can no longer ask for help. Listen, these six and a half times of IPREM are almost 50,000 euros per family unit, whether single parent or numerous, up to 55,000. Home!, the limits are always questionable, but I think it's quite a reasonable limit to be able to turn to help, you can't everybody, but I think that six and a half times IPREM will agree, or at least I think so honestly, that it welcomes many of the families who may need help so that their children can do an activity in the ANPA and therefore can reconcile. With regard to other things the ANPAs said: the simplified cost – I say – obliges the European Social Fund; it is calculated at EUR 10 per hour of activity, and these data are extracted from the National Institute of Statistics. Somewhere you'll have to take the target to calculate the cost. And you were talking cost-activity between 15 and 25 euros a month. It's just that I don't know about the question, but I've heard some statement from members of your group that talked about 110 euros per month cost of activity, because if that's not how I stay calm, because I don't know where they can get that figure from, that if we start to object to these issues I think we'll have the solution. I insist, there are requirements that we will not be able to ignore, others with the help of the General Secretariat of Equality of course, would be missing more! What we're interested in, indeed, is that if that seems wrong to them, which I think not, they'd be wrong. What we're really interested in is that everyone who wants to ask for this help asks for it, that the money runs out, and the shame is that they can't have it anymore. And of course I think it would be a failure for everyone, but I don't think it's going to be the money that's available because people can't ask for it, or because they don't want to take it, or because they can't ask for it. For that we are, to help, and honestly,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u289	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u290	...I think with the level of requests, eventually the money won't come to all the things that will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u291	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Maria Julia Rodríguez Barreira and seven other Members, by G. P. Popular de Galicia, on the measures planned by the Galician Union to solve the problems of connection of the sanitation system in the Monforte de Lemos dry port to facilitate the implementation of companies
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u292	Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u293	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Counsellor, the Dry Port of Monforte was born with the vocation of being a revolutionary that would revitalize the economy of the land of Lemos, a large logistics platform endorsed by its strategic railway location and also by its equivalence to the ports and airports of Galicia. The convention that gave him his way out was signed in 2000, but it wasn't until 2010 when this Government of the Union pushed him with the realization and execution of the urbanization works that subsequently gave him access, currently completing access with LU 933, despite the crisis situation that we have been living in these years. The reduction in the price of soil and the declaration of unique projects to two interested companies made the monfortins regain confidence in this project and the possibility that this reality of infrastructure would soon become a business reality; a business reality that materialises in jobs, investments, economic activity. Finally, in a region that is very affected by unemployment and recession. On recent dates, we have learned that the poor state of maintenance and conservation of the Monforte's network and urban sanitation facilities prevent the connection of dry port sanitation to the urban network, and therefore this is making it impossible to obtain licenses and the deployment of companies in the dry port. And at this point, Counsellor, I would like to refer, indeed, to the fact that we have an obsolete network, the result of a total absence of renewal, maintenance and conservation over the past 12 years, and I would like to make a reflection, because constantly on this bench, we are bearing that deal in favour of companies. Well, this situation in which we find ourselves, Counselor, is the result of a deal of favor, as we have not seen, from a government of the BNG to a concessionary company, allowing for twelve years that has systematically breached its obligations, even if the offer and document in which they support their commitments and obligations, and so that's what brought us here. Well, the BNG paid its electoral cost, but the Monfortins inherited this situation that is preventing companies that are interested in settling in the dry port from doing so. We've reached a limit, Counselor, in which even some of these companies threaten that if this situation is not solved, they could install and search alone in another place. We know that we are facing municipal competition, we know that this is the result of an inaction and mismanagement of a previous government, and we know that the council is not solving this problem, so it is not authorising or granting the necessary licenses. But we also know that this situation of municipal sanitation in the municipality of Monforte can ruin the investment efforts made by the Galician Union, endangering the deployment of these companies. That is why I ask you, what measures will you take to find solutions to the problems of connection of the sanitation system to facilitate the establishment of companies in the Seco Port of Monforte? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u294	Thank you, Mrs Barreira. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u295	Thank you, President. Your Honor, at the Galician Summit we are working intensively to develop policies and measures to boost economic growth in Galicia. The ultimate goal: more and better opportunities for all the Greeks, regardless of where they live, and, of course, within this economic development that we are pushing Monforte occupies a prominent place, thus demonstrating the strong investments we are making in Monforte in recent years, equipping it with industrial soil, also by the launch of the Monforte Dry Port and also by the significant improvements in communications. It was of course the current Galician Union that pushed the Monforte Seco Port in December 2010, initiating and activating the urbanization works that ended in December 2013. Since then we have worked hard to enhance the dry port of Monforte and become, really, an intermodal logistics platform in Galicia. We have done so with the improvements in road communications: they know that we are about to end the connection of the dry port to the autonomous road LU 933.6 million euros from the Galician Union, and also at the end of November, because the entire high-performance route Sarria-Monforte will be open to traffic thanks to 135 million euros from the Galician Union. In addition to connections, we also made the dry port more accessible with the 50% soil bonuses for the initial price. We've been charged 40,000 square meters to the Abiga company to develop a business project with an investment of 20 million euros, and to generate 35 direct jobs and 105 indirect jobs. But the fact is that this company is having many pitfalls, many pitfalls, and it's not possible to get the municipal license, municipal license totally necessary to develop this project to generate jobs and wealth, and you know that the approved sectoral project, with the visa and pleasure of the municipal services of the municipality, provides for the connection of dry port sanitation to the municipal network. The situation of the deterioration network, that of the sanitation network, and therefore the Hydrographic Confederation, has called on the Monforte Council to draft a pollution reduction plan that prevents new loads and spills to that network. We're worried that the sanitation network will destroy the future of the Monforte Dry Port, and despite not being the competence of the Galician Union, we've certainly said that by the Galician Union, not a single company would stop setting up in the Monforte Dry Port. So we're working on reaching a solution to the dry port of Monforte. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u296	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u297	Thank you. Counsellor, we cannot show more than our satisfaction because you are working on solutions, looking for solutions to this problem that we understand is a serious problem, because it is ultimately true that the municipality has drawn up a waste disposal plan, but despite the time it has passed because it doesn't seem that this plan is solving or it's a sufficient solution for itself to solve this problem. So I said this – and aware that we are facing an important problem affecting the future of the dry port and the deployment of companies – I would like it to be confirmed if, indeed, the dry port has all the infrastructure needed to connect sanitation. So we're at the point of this being affecting strictly municipal competition. And since you've just manifested your willingness to bring solutions to a problem, as we say, so important for Monforte, but also for the whole region, that's why if it's possible, I'd like you to expand information on these possible solutions – those that since the board is working – that allow or put on the line to see how we can or how you can solve this problem of connecting dry port sanitation; finally, allow companies interested in installing themselves there because they can reach the corresponding licenses and definitely deploy themselves. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u298	Thank you, Mrs Barreira. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u299	Thank you, President. As I said in my first intervention, in the German Government we are definitely betting on the dry port of Monforte. We invested more than 13 million euros to acquire the land, to urbanize it, more than 6 million euros to have a cohesion with the autonomic road LU-933, with 13 million euros, and also with subsidies of 50% of the price of the plots, which is a good incentive for companies to generate jobs and wealth. We try to facilitate the installation of new business projects to develop economic activity on this logistics platform as soon as possible, but the fact is that we are currently finding many traps, and the deployment of companies in this business park is being dilated as a result of the state of the sanitation network. The dry port has all the infrastructure provided and necessary to achieve cohesion to the sanitation network, as was foreseen in the sectoral project approved by the Bipartite, and from then on that to complete this connection, the sanitation network needs to meet the requirements of the Confederation. The Confederation, as you know, conditions the connection of the sanitation of the dry port of Monforte to that of the Monforte Council present, develops and implements a pollution reduction plan, which must present that body, but which is pending to materialize. We need to fix the sanitation system; it's weak, it's deteriorating, and it's, of course, saturated. This delay in the execution of the Contamination Plan is very worrying because it is negatively affecting the development of the dry port of Monforte. It also affects those neighbors of Monforte, because those who apply for a license cannot have it, if they want to make a new home, a new place or a new host establishment. Despite the fact that sanitation and purification is municipal competition, since Galician Union we are working together and working to bring about solutions. We don't want to get rid of a problem that can spoil the future and condition the future of the dry port, we can't stand aside, and, of course, since the Galician Union we're not going to allow this opportunity to be missed in Monforte. So, although it's municipal competition, we're about to finish the constructive project of independent sanitation; a sanitation system that's talked about with the Confederation, a sanitation system that's authorised by the Hydrographic Confederation. Of course, we are in a position that in the next few days we will hand over this project to the Monforte Council and be able to hire the works as soon as possible, so that this company that will generate jobs and wealth in Monforte can be permanently installed. We are convinced that this compact and independent debugger will allow us to take advantage of these opportunities that the dry port has in Monforte, that we are about to lose, and I hope and hope that the Town Hall will have a welcome to be responsible for developing this independent sanitation project. Of course, in this way it will be guaranteed the development of the dry port of Monforte and, of course, above all, the progress of Monforte and of the entire region of Monforte. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u300	Thank you, Counselor. Agenda modification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u301	I would like to inform you, before moving on to the next question, that Question 45491 from the Galician People's Parliamentary Group has been removed, which is last mentioned. From Carmen Adán Villamarín and D. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the measures adopted by the Government of Greece for the development in the educational field of Law 2/2014, of 14 April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u302	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Adán Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u303	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. I want to start by condemning the homophobic aggression that took place yesterday at Compostela and remembering all the prejudices that we still have to eliminate, and also asking that the laws be fulfilled, in this case the Greek law, which clearly collects that, in case such aggressions exist, the Government will be interested in this. We assume that he will, and just as the Education Counsellor can't give us any notice of this, but we do hope that the Government would take that aggression into account and that the mechanisms needed to talk to the people who suffered it would be put in place. Look, Counsellor, you know that chapter V of Galician law – in which we have reached an important agreement in this Parliament, two years ago, of the Law on equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals of Galicia – collects different measures – perhaps scarce, indeed – but different measures in its articulation, in particular in article 22 concerning the inclusion in the plans to study LGBT reality. And in particular, we know that associations of trans children and children came into contact with you to find out if this reality of trans children would be incorporated into school curricula, that these days, after a day of analysis and study at Santiago de Compostela University, is above the table. We hope you explain it to us. The same is true in Article 23 concerning attitudes, and in Article 24 concerning teacher training. I would ask you to know how many training courses were given to Galician professors in these lesbian, gay and trans realities over the past two years. In addition, in fact, knowing that we have around 380 trans-schooled children in Galicia, in the different schools, we would like to know if this teacher received this training, whether it is going to be received in the future and what the situation is, because we know it's a very complex situation, of hard work in school and in school. Also in article 25, regarding this disclosure of this reality with the ANPAs, the ANPAs of Vigo, through different communiqués and even a concentration in front of the Marco to show their solidarity with young Alan, who commits suicide after being harassed by his trans reality. So that also prompted this question; that is, what training and contact actions have the ANPA carried out at the Education Council? And finally, Article 26, which clearly states that there is a need to combat this harassment that children and children living in this reality can suffer, and to make this situation visible. I want to remind you that the studies tell you that 95% of trans-child and trans-child suffer from school harassment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u304	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u305	...which is a reality that must concern us. So, with regard to the law that exists, what measures were taken, in particular, with regard to the implementation of the law, but of the children and children who live the trans reality, please?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u306	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u307	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Adam, of course this government joins and we share the condemnation of known events. I personally know them only by the press, they don't come into my field of competence, but I am sure that the Council of Galicia will articulate the necessary and precise mechanisms, for we are facing a situation that, obviously, from a legal and moral point of view, is absolutely damnable. Having said this, I think that in Galicia we have to, in some way, put into value and congratulate to some extent the Galician assembly of having a law. We were the first autonomous community to have a law that has reached an enormous political consensus in this House. It's a law of equal treatment and non-discrimination because of sexual orientation and gender identity of LGTBI people. I believe that this is a collective achievement, something that we must be proud of as a country, and, as you well know, it is an integral law that, in some ways, aims to work in this field with a cross-sectional perspective in the legal environment, in the police, in the family, in the work and, of course, in the educational field, considering that education is perhaps one of the most important social peculiarities, to somehow instill values in the citizens of the future; values that obviously go in the line that society demands and that we all understand as positive. Since 2014, when this law has been passed, the Secretary-General of Equality himself has put in place different actions, one in particular that is very related to the educational field, which has to do with an information and awareness campaign which will be presented in a very short time and will be disseminated by schools and institutes, essentially directed to youth. Now, in the field of education specifically, I can tell you, Your Honor, that we have already achieved what are the adaptations of curricula, both nationally and in the field of autonomy, so that the student in Galicia receives proper training in values, given that we are also talking about fundamental values for social health in some way. From a cross-sectional perspective, these curricula are essentially three questions, which have to do with awareness and which have to do with prevention to some extent of these events: On the one hand, you have to try to fight behaviors and stereotypes or sexist content of all kinds. Secondly, we must also fight and curb all kinds of discrimination because of sexual orientation, and of course we must promote visibility and normalize a situation that, based on gender differences, we must all interpret it as quite normal. I also want to tell you, Your Honor, that in a very short time we will also present a protocol – which we will present to the Galician assembly and, of course, to the educational community – in which we will respond to everything that has to do with the right to gender identity. It's a protocol we're working on with associations specialized in this field. I had meetings with people of these associations myself. He's doing the Technical Team of the Council, and I think the most important thing is that we've made a few lines of work for the teachers and for the students, that we report, that we're conscious, and to some extent that we're able to educate the society of the future in values...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u308	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u309	... considering one very important thing: that school has to educate, and at school children and girls, students and students are five hours. This is a problem of society as a whole, where the education system is a fundamental piar. But we have to make a call between society as a whole that these situations that we all know, obviously, do not repeat.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u310	Thank you, Counselor. Replica shift. Mrs. Adam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u311	Yes, of course, Counsellor, society as a whole has to educate. This law collects measures for the media in the field of health, but in particular, we are talking about the educational field, and you know perfectly well that the educational field is fundamental. I'm talking about a reality of 380 children – calculated by their own associations – who live a reality that I think needs arrest, stop analyzing it, and actually modify all curricula, and not only leave it to the subject of values, but to all curricular adaptation in the plans of studies, as contemplated by law, and even in the plans of studies related to other disciplines, as social sciences can be. So I hope that I will put the question into practice a little more, or, if not, we will also put it in committee. But we don't just stay there, I ask you: training the teaching staff. The training of teachers is fundamental on this subject, because we cannot leave it to the good will of that teacher. How many training courses were given? How many activities were given to our centers? And I also ask you if the teacher has asked for specific material in this regard. And the teachers' training teachers, as far as I know, asking the teachers' training teachers, did not incorporate subjects or aspects even about this reality, which is contained in the law. We would like you, as Education Counsellor, even though we know the autonomy of the university, to go to the university to incorporate these issues into the teacher's training masters, because one question is the continuing training of the teacher and the other one is the need for it to be given in these masters. As in identity, not only the one referred to in the gender identity, but also the field of equality in general. In the disclosure of the ANPA, you can, believe me. And, above all, to combat harassment, if you think we should already amend this law or the law of school cohabitation to include with regard to the reality that is being lived in possible centres harassed by gender identity and by transsexual reality...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u312	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u313	If you think we should have more specific questions in this law or in the law of coexistence. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u314	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Replica from the Government. You have the word of the counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u315	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Adam, we agree that the educational field is fundamental to the dissemination and awareness of these values in society as a whole, starting with the citizens of the future, who are our schoolchildren. We also agree that we are working on the hand of specialized associations to put in place measures, through this protocol that I have just mentioned earlier, to raise awareness, in some way, inform and regulate this situation in educational centres. Your Honor, we are faced with a tremendously complex, very delicate matter, which we must deal with with with with very little and with very much sensitivity, because every case is different. You mentioned a number, but we all know that each case is different; even the family environment or the social environment of each of these children is different, and they have a different perception of how to deal with this reality. We, of course, are aware of the existence of this diversity, we must act in that matter. You brought here a subject that we celebrate, which is what it has to do with the training of teachers in the future. In fact, very few days ago we set up a working group between the Council and the three universities, represented by the 6 Deans of Education, to somehow match the educational content of the degree and also the teachers' masters to what the new social and educational realities are. And one of the most important points that we are dealing with, in addition to new technologies, multilingual education, etc., is the treatment of diversity for future teachers, and in this treatment of diversity, obviously, also everything that has to do with the freedom of gender has, or is called, a fundamental role. The resumes I mentioned have already told you that they are adapted in this direction. This is a cross-sectional issue, which is in all subjects, and what is essential is that information be made and that training be done in the teacher. It's doing, it's doing cross-sectional information and training, and it's also working a lot with the student. We must be aware of a matter; that is, the child himself with whom he is most in contact is with his own student, and sometimes the behaviors most closely related to what may be harassment or jokes are linked to the student himself. With which, the work with the student, the awareness of the student and the information to the student is very important, and in this sense we are working on it. I think with an integral perspective, it's how things should be done. This is not a subject that can be studied, but it's a set of values that must be transferred to the education system, to the teacher, to the student, to the families. We must be aware that we must always bet on non-discrimination, of no kind, but much less on a gender character. We must bet on integration and protect especially these children, who are extremely vulnerable, with which I think we need a sensitization of society, of the student, of the teacher. Finally, I would like to call on the whole of society that education in values such as coexistence, such as respect for others, such as integration into diversity, is a task of everyone. I don't teach? Of course, but it's basically everyone's job. The kids are in school for a while...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u316	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u317	...the rest are with their families, with their friends, they're in society, and I think society as a whole has to be aware of the need to respect, stimulate and favor these kinds of values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u318	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Consuelo Martínez García, from G.P. Mixed, on the measures envisaged by the Government of Greece to recover demographic and economic dynamism in the municipalities of the rural environment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u319	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u320	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Counsellor, during this crisis, the rural Galician has suffered a burgeoning of the fruit of the march of the younger people and the aging of those who remain. Rural population in Galicia has declined more than in any other community, 7.35 per cent between 2008 and 2014, which means 25 people less each day and a total of 55,000 people less. By the end of 2014, the population that lived in some of the 230 Greek rural municipalities was 750,719 people, which means 27.2% of Galician inhabitants; that is, 72,8 % of the population of Galicia is concentrated in only 86 municipalities. In Galicia there are 184 rural municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, living 14% of the population. The number of inhabitants between 2008 and 2014 in this area has decreased by 10.3%, the highest percentage of the entire state. Galicia has lost 2.4 % of its rural population between 2008 and 2011 to 7.3% of its current population. And in the smaller municipalities, it went from a loss of 4% of population in that period to the current 10.3%. Galicia's biggest population problem is its aging. The proportion of inhabitants over the age of 65 almost doubled by children under 16. In rural areas, 31.7% of the inhabitants are over 65 years old, and only 9.2% are less than 16. As a result of this demographic decline and the lack of rural opportunities, from 2000 to 2014, the number of people employed in Galicia in the primary sector has declined by two thirds, from 171,696 jobs in the primary sector to 65,000 in the third quarter of 2015. The IGE data analyzing municipal GDP show that between 2010 and 2012 rural districts in which the primary sector is their main activity yielded per capita income despite the loss of population; a reality that is explained by the serious crisis of profitability in the dairy sector, the agricultural and forestry policies that are taking place, the absence of a wager by an industry linked to the rural environment and the evolution of pensions, which is the main income in these areas, where most of the population exceeds 65 years. In addition, the IGE data also conveys a deep gap between the Atlantic and the interior, as the provinces of Coruña and Pontevedra generate 77% of Galicia's final production. In 2012, 44% of GDP was concentrated in the seven major Greek municipalities, and nearly a quarter of all wealth is in the municipalities of Vigo and Coruña. That is why I ask you: what measures will the Union take to recover the demographic and economic dynamism in the rural municipalities?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u321	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. To answer, you have the word of the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u322	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. In fact, in order to live in rural areas, we have to live in rural areas and, therefore, we have to have services. That's where this government is working, promoting the rural economy, and this requires complementing this bet, which also brings social measures. That's why from the German Government we want to continue to develop, in a related and horizontal manner, the strategic lines that enable us to complete this economic and labor opportunity that gives rural people the level of living conditions that make them comparable to any area in our community. He's been very busy, which doesn't mean we don't have to keep encouraging and even pushing much more. In this sense, the phenomenon of return to rural areas linked to the economic crisis and the resistance it has experienced in the activities of the primary sector is offering, and during this time, an area where many people have had to go back to their homes, and it is one of the threads that are connecting us and guiding us within our activity for this period. So we've been working on policies that make it possible for a diversified economy to be dynamized in these areas and those that improve the quality of life of the population living in rural areas. That's why since the Rural Media Council we have developed an important bet through the line of rural development plans that generate dynamizer projects and those carried out through Leader plans. Within the latter, from 2007 to 2015, 2,183 projects were successfully solved, which were granted aid of 92 million euros, which led to an injection and an induced investment of 226 million euros. This data provided an average project help of 42,000 euros and 40.77 % of the aid percentage on total project investment. In addition, this investment has resulted in the consolidation of 4,949 jobs and the creation of 957 new jobs. Even so, Leader has allowed groups that, as a general rule, 25% of their strategy can go to non-productive projects that improve the quality of life of our rural population. This means improving social infrastructure, such as social sites, day centres, children's schools, computer equipment or improvements in historical, artistic and environmental heritage, targeting this type of project, whose promoters were basically municipalities or non-profit associations, 18.6 million euros for a total of 706 projects. This is the line we've been following in recent years, and of course, we have a new projection from here to 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u323	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u324	Counselor, I really don't know where you get the data. I've just given you data on population loss, job loss, desertification in which rural people are becoming; and you tell me they've been done until 2015, within the rural dynamization plan, 2,183 projects. I'd like you to tell me what those projects are, because if you call them a project to set up a kiosk, because it's a project, of course, but I'm actually talking to you about the economy that drives rural industry, about rural environment. What's your bet? I'd like to know what projects they're working on for this 4.0 industry in the rural world. Because the rural world also has a right to Industry 4.0, or not? So, I'd like you to really answer me what the future projects are. [[Murmurs.]] And don't come to me with non-productive projects in social infrastructure, when we take all the legislation talking about the social infrastructure media in rural areas. There's no primary care for rural care -- stay away -- no ADO, no palliative care service, no daycare facilities, no schools for children, no means of transport. The countryside is isolated from the coast, it's isolated from the industry, it's isolated from the future, there's not even a nearby train, because you don't bet on bringing the rural to the rest of Galicia. There's no Internet access, we talked about it a thousand times. Internet connection is impossible in rural areas, and it is essential for industry to be established, for the future to be established and for training to be established. So, really, what I'm staying with is that your bet on the countryside is that there's so far: a great eucalyptal, full of elders, which will end up being a desert, because what they're trying to sell Greek territory to multinationals like ENCE to plant eucalyptus, or now also to the aquaculture industries. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, gentlemen, that's your country project, and that's why you're going to lose the next Welsh election...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u325	Please finish, Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u326	...because the project of the Greeks and the Greeks is a project...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u327	Mrs. Martínez, stop it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u328	...of the future, of culture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u329	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Replica from the Government. [[Pause.]] Counsellor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u330	Thank you, President. Your Honor, tell you that Leader projects can never be taken out of kiosk projects because they are projects that come out of the base, they're projects that come out of the rural environment; they're not projects imposed by anyone. These are projects on which there is a basis, which is the very person who lives in rural areas, and then develops it through previous studies. With which, whenever you want, I'll invite you to visit some of these projects, as I did yesterday at Sober, for example, in a cellar that is primarily unique, with many people who are rural promoters, young people who believe in the countryside, in that place where they lived. [[Murmurs.]] To say, besides, that you live in a rural area that I don't know, I live in a totally different rural. And believe me, even though I live in the countryside, I also go through all the parishes, the villages and the boroughs, and, of course, I can tell you that there are health centers, that there are children's schools, that there are transportation. [[Applause]] And I tell you, I have my children who use school transportation from a village to go to a village and be able to study. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, ladies and gentlemen, to set up population in rural areas; to encourage business initiatives that contribute to job creation in the territory; to boost the rural installation of population care services and promote employment and family reconciliation; and basic attention to the most disadvantaged groups are basic principles that we will continue to develop within the actions that the Galician Union has planned, as defined in the Strategic Plan of Galicia until 2020. Even so, it is hoped that, with the implementation of the different actions of the new RDP, the necessary conditions will be laid down to consolidate 3,000 jobs in rural areas in this period and create around 1,000 jobs. I know that a month's data doesn't reflect what a year or so could be, but I'll tell you that the trend is good. The unemployment in the agriculture sector fell, as compared to January 2015, by 3.59%. As far as recruitment is concerned, 2,09 contracts have been formalized in this sector; an increase of 17% compared to January 2015. [[Murmurs.]] Stressing that indefinite recruitment grew by 25%, compared to the 14% increase in temporary recruitment. To achieve a balanced territorial development – and now I have just done it –, just approved in the council of Agader the new Plan Leader to develop, 2014-2020, to which EUR 84 million was destined, being the population itself, the rural one, who will present their projects, which I can by no means allow here that they are said to be kiosks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u331	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Pablo García García and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the actions planned by the Council of Galicia to facilitate access to the training necessary for obtaining the basic plant protection product manipulator meat
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u332	To put the question, Mr. García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u333	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. I think anyone would agree that rural people would stop coming out before we thought they'd come back to another place or create 3,000 jobs. Counselor, no one's been waiting for this government to solve the problems, but now we're already at the stage that, at least, don't give them. I mean, people don't believe them anymore. He doesn't ask for solutions anymore, he's long since he gave up on it, but he doesn't believe them. See, year 2012 – you know it – There is a European regulation since 2009, and there is a novelty with regard to what was before, which was the obligation, to buy plant protection products, to have a meat, therefore, to access those products. It was already, in some ways, controlled what is the application of these products, but as a novelty it is also forbidden to sell them to people who do not have the meat. Therefore, the year 2009-year 2012. Since 2009, especially since 2012, to December 26, 2015, it was when that rule definitely came into force that prevented the sale of plant protection products, to which this government was dedicated? What did they do in those three years? Difficult, hampering, not giving information, hiding, not opening the training offer enough to entities, not putting in or letting access to training telematically, restricting the practice and evaluation of exam tests to their training centers, which meant that people had to travel many miles to go for the exam and to go do the practice. In short, they did what I used to refer to, which is that more archaic concept of the Administration to be noticed to hinder something. I mean, if we don't exist to solve problems, we're going to make ourselves notice, make ourselves numb and put all the obstacles possible to say that we exist. They showed once again that they don't deal with the problems of this country, that they don't know this country, and they don't know it because they don't listen. So when you don't listen, you don't know or learn. Hundreds of hundreds and hundreds of people, Counsellor – and you know – in the last two months since December 25, are travelling on weekends to the Beer to get that sheep; that sheep whom you have put up with for three years to get it and to do it. So you have to get on a bus, pay 150 euros, go to the Bierzo and get the meat out, when you should have an administration that has been dedicated for these three years to make life easier for those people so they don't have to pay that money and don't have to travel to other places. Therefore, Counsellor, we have come here with initiatives, telling you to solve the terrible, difficult and complex problem of the dairy sector, of the forest sector. Counselor, if you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u334	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u335	...they wouldn't manage a corn pigeon's office!, as the other says, with all due respect for those who manage corn pigeon's offices. Are you going to put some measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u336	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u337	...to solve this serious problem once and for all – because these products usually apply before harvest, don't I know if they know? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u338	Thank you, Mr. García. To answer, you have the word of the Middle Rural Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u339	Thank you. Indeed, following Directive 2009/128, all European countries are committed to the rational use of plant protection products. Currently, 173 plant protection products are authorized for domestic outdoor gardening, i.e. to be able to use them to those people who do not need a meat. These products have the active ingredients needed to attack different pests, both potato and vineyard, which is what is most used in small gardens, and are therefore for those people who, having their very limited production, do not have the meat, the basic or the specialist. Still, and even though this list of 173 plant protection products should be sufficient to ensure a correct phytosanitary state, we must take care of the other pest management. Within this, there are the professional uses; professional uses that don't need everyone. So you're notifying the various organizations so that people can't be deceived. I mean, those people who have four lives or they sow potatoes don't need to have this meat. You have to tell them that the Council has been giving continuing training courses for years to obtain basic training and also qualifications. In particular, not only does the Rural Council, but, as I said, there are authorized training entities, and they don't get caught by anyone, they just have to comply with the Vigilant legislation. In particular, 20 entities have requested this right now for face-to-face training, and one – in particular, UPA Agricultural Unions – to provide online training. There are four more who asked for that authorization, two of which have the same and two others before the end of this month. In 2015, and within the Continued Training Plan of the Council, 68 basic level courses, 122 renewal of this basic level, 21 qualification level, 4 qualification level renewal and 173 courses were approved through approved entities. And what has this government done over the years? So he did so much to allow 63.252 professionals to have that money already and that last year they would issue 7,359 money. For the year 2016, and after consulting between the sector and the different organizations of their needs...,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u340	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u341	...you will give priority to qualified level courses, as well as to the renewals of basic and qualified levels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u342	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. García's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u343	Counsellor, look, we already knew legislation and, indeed, this is for the application of professionals, but in practice, the products, almost all of the products that are used today and which are marketed today have a commercial character, and indeed, it seems that those who have four vineyards also need to buy the product, and do not sell the plant protection product to them. And there's no other kind of product yet in the industry that supplants, the ones, let's say, professionals. So that's the problem we have. Look, Counsellor, do you know who asked for permission to give online, nine years ago, by Agricultural Unions as a collaborating entity, so that the Board would grant you the licence to be able to provide online information? A server, who talks to you. Nine years ago. She was authorized last month because they found the problem. Nine years ago I left Agricultural Unions, and I actually made that request to impart. It wasn't an eminence, it was just doing what the rest of the autonomous communities were doing, that it was being able to deliver this training online. The Galician Union took nine years to do the authorization, without paying a hard one. A grant was not requested, nor was money placed, it was simply authorized. It took nine years to do it, and he did it this year. Counselor, do you guys have this year going to do everything they said or not? You're going to allow on-line training this year, you're going to allow exams to be done outside your training centers, you're going to allow courses to be shifted to the localities this year, you're going to... you're going to get back to it again, I remember when you asked for 30 courses and they gave us 5, as well as other contributors -- 5 courses per year. So they're going to do everything they haven't done for the rest of the years, because they've actually come up with a problem. Or do you mean to tell me that those who go to Castilla-Léon to the Bierzo on Saturday morning have nothing else to do and get bored? So they're going to give a walk to Castilla-Leon, pass a phytosanitary exam and bring the meat. No, Counselor. You guys haven't done anything for the last three years, you haven't even found out what to do, and now you have a terrible problem. What's a problem for us? I've already told you, the problem is not me, the problem is all the people who are there, who since December 25 can't buy the products. And I repeat, it's just that in this product, it's useless to have solved it in August, because there's no one else to put the product on. They usually start to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u344	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u345	...boot now, and it's the difficulty we have. They should, however, rather than meet with Members and say that there will be a lot of courses, to give information. They talk to entities because there's a lot of people worried about this subject, and a lot of people are already looking to their neighbors to buy the product in their name. They're applying it irregularly. And you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u346	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u347	...they're the ones responsible for this joke they've made over the years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u348	Thank you. Replica tower for the Government. Counsellor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u349	Thank you, President. Your Honor, I repeat again what has been done for these three years. Thanks to the work developed by the Council, 63.252 people have the basic meat issued by the Council of Galicia. And last year, last year, 7,359 carnées issued by the Council. All this information is available to users in the county offices, also on the Council website. On the Council website you know in detail where each of the courses will be held and the month in which they will be held, and it will not be in the summer. They started to teach the courses, and there's their whole relationship. With regard specifically to cooperating entities, currently, and even though there are 69 authorised by the Council to provide face-to-face training in plant protection courses, only 31 of these entities have been active throughout 2015 and not because the Council had banned it. With which, it can't be said that entities have not been authorized. At present there are 34 entities that have applied for presence courses to develop throughout 2016, in the first quarter, of which 20 entities are already authorised and the remaining 14 are pending different requirements. We also have new high-level applications in the register of cooperating entities, and they're making the most of them in an administrative way so we can do it in a record time. Besides, we're going to put forward the approved courses in time towards spring; that is, you have the relationship and you can consult it there. But I tell you already, to have it first hand: in the area of Betanzos-Ferrol, in Ferrol, 4; in the area of Carballo: 4 in Carballo, 3 in Baio, 2 in Corcubion and 9 in Cambre; in the area of Arzua: 8 in Orders and 5 in Arzua; in the area of Noia-Santiago: 2 in Santiago, 2 in Black and 4 courses in Santa Comba. We can pass to Lugo – although we could continue to give the relationship of those that will be given in the province of Coruña – there are 6 in Lugo, 4 in Castroverde, 2 in Friol and 3 in Sarria; in the area of Monforte de Lemos: 2 in Chantada and 1 in Quiroga; in the area of Mondoñedo, 1 in Mondoñedo, 2 in Viveiro and 1 in Foz... and a long et cetera; with which, you can't say that this council wouldn't worry. And he has been concerned since this year's budgets have increased considerably from EUR 405,000 to EUR 1.4 million, i.e. an increase of 189.48%. We not only focus on these courses, which, of course, are essential, but also open the door to demanding and non-required training. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-02-10-DSPG141.u350	Thank you, Counselor. The agenda is run out, the session is up.
