ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u1	Good morning, ladies, let's start the session. Let's start the session with the fourth item on the agenda, questions for oral answer by the president of the board. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece in relation to the transfer to Galicia of AP-9
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u2	We started with the question of Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u3	Good morning. We're talking today about AP-9, a legalized scam that suffers every day thousands of people in our country. And allow me to give you three data, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. First, the Greeks and the Greeks paid 2,300 million euros in peas on AP-9. This means not only that AP-9 is already amortized, but that it has a net profit that exceeds 900 million euros. Second question, we are more expensive to travel — speaking of beaches — from La Coruña to Vigo, which is 130 kilometers, than from A Coruña to Madrid, which is 510 kilometers. Someone will have to explain to us such nonsense someday. Thirdly, we have the second lowest wages but one of the most expensive beaches in the Spanish state. I don't know if that's how you can understand that centralist solidarity you so much boast about. And right now, there are two things that are very clear. The first is that the People's Party has already prevented the transfer of AP-9 and that they are currently maneuvering in the Congress of Deputies to prevent the law that we unanimously approve in this Parliament to have an AP-9 Welsh and free of fees. And secondly, Mr. Rajoy tells us that he has zero euros to end the abusive sins that we paid the Greeks and the Greeks on AP-9, but at the same time he says he is willing to put on table 4,000, 5,000, 6,000 million euros, which is necessary, to rescue the Madrid radials; these, of course, are the property of the people's and Bankia's friendly builders. You've been promising us the transfer of AP-9 for eight years, but all of us here know you didn't really make an attempt to get that transfer. On the contrary, you were part of the problem when you were an accomplice in the privatization of AP-9. It convinces us today that you are really Galician militant, as it has been self-proclaimed since the last few days, and demonstrates to us that it comes here not simply to give a headline to the canteen that its priority is going to be the transfer of AP-9. Because, look, this headline has been read many times over the past eight years. I ask you to exercise as President of Galicia and join a pact that we have already offered to you since the BNG, that you really join a great deal of country agreement so that we can get an AP-9 Galician and free of fees. We continue with the tender hand, Mr. Núñez Feijóo. The question now is if you really want to join a country pact so that we have an AP-9 and free of fees, and if you're really going to do something about the aggravating Mr. Rajoy's claim that he has billions of euros to rescue some ruined Madridn radials at the same time that he tells us we have to keep paying the Welsh and Welsh peas that are a real scam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, you certainly heard my words a few days ago in this Parliament when I had the honour to take possession of the presidency of the Council of Galicia. Then the President of the Government of Spain was present. I said — and I repeat today — that Galicia will not ask for more than its own, but will not comply with less. As you can imagine, I haven't changed my mind, nor will I change my mind for the eight years that I've been president of the Union or the four who are waiting for me as president until 2020. So, Your Honor, we're going to request the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic, and we're going to ask for it, Your Honor, because we're asking for it when we were in the opposition and when we're in the Government. You should check what your position was when they ruled in a coalition with the Socialist Party in Spain. Your Honor, in order to continue seeking points of consensus, it is clear that you convened a meeting unilaterally with the groups when the Government of Spain was in office and when the Government of the United States was in office. And since we didn't go to the meeting, you were upset. It seems, Mrs. Pontón, that you want to divide what, at the moment, can stay together. If we all agree to request the transfer of AP-9 and to negotiate it, let us continue together so that the Government of Spain can see that this is a complete, unique proposal from the Galician Parliament. I should not, therefore, raise divisions in this regard. I think that would be the right thing to do. Because if you propose divisions saying that you might be in favour of transfer, that you are, and we against you, simply the result of that division is useless. Your Honor, I reiterate that we will not be able to obtain the transfer of AP-9 in a short time. We'll have to negotiate. We're not going to get from today to tomorrow what nobody's been able to get. We'll have to negotiate. We're not going to get what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, which ruled in Spain for twenty-two years, refused to transfer, and what the People's Party, which ruled in Spain for eleven years, also refused to transfer. So, Your Honor, let's stick together. If it seems to you, from now on, this majority group of the House is going to consider, it will continue to propose, whatever the result, the transfer of the freeway from the Atlantic. Why, Your Honor? Because it's a highway that starts and dies in Galicia and therefore because we have legal possibilities to get that transfer. Your Honor, speaking of highways, Catalans say they pay a lot in peas, Valencians say they pay a lot in peas, Basques also say they pay a lot in peas, and we also pay a lot in peas, gentlemen. So don't you think everyone is against, the Catalans, the Basques, the Valencians, Galician. No, ma'am, when there's a highway, pay a fee. A different question is that we would like that highway to be transferred to the Autonomous Community. Your Honor, during these eight years we've been governing Galicia we've made 200 kilometers of high capacity routes in the autonomous community with zero toll. During these years of crisis, of economic recession, in Galicia, not only didn't we go up to the beach, but we froze and lowered it. Your Honor, the bonuses of the Government of Galicia and the Government of Spain from the state highways in Galicia during these eight years were 146 million euros. You tell me if you've had a time when you've had more fines from Galician beaches. Your Honor, this Government and this parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u7	...supported the payoffs of the autonomous community. Let's keep going this way. I invite you not to divide us, Mrs. Pontón, and we will continue together...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u8	Quiet, please. Finish, president.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u9	I invite you not to divide, Mrs. Pontón, and we will continue to request the transfer of AP-9 together. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u11	Mr. Feijóo, I have to confess to you today that I look a little like an illusion. I really had the hope — it took me very little — that you'd actually come here today with something more than a pre-cooked headline when we're talking about something that's so important to the Greeks and the Greeks. I am also surprised by the little memory he has and the denial that, as a militant of the People's Party, he has so little memory to know what PP's responsibilities are with regard to AP-9. I'll remember them. In 2000 Mr. José María Aznar's government — I believe you were already in that government — decided to extend the concession of AP-9 until 2048. This means we're going to have to pay fees for seventy-five more years, which is the legal maximum. There are only three highways across the Spanish state that have that legal maximum, and two are in Galicia, AP-9 and AP-53. I don't know if this is also the fault of the Basques and the Catalans. In 2003, Mr. Aznar's government, while you were Territorial Policy Counsellor, decided to privatize AP-9. You here made the placard to defend that privatization and tell us that nothing happened. It's gonna happen, Mr. Feijóo! The rates have risen by 50 percent, and we have to endure like every day, the yellows and the galleys, who have some of the lowest wages in the whole state, are paying a real sweaty in those beaches that are a real abuse. But, look, in 2015 what was your political weight? Because while you haven't claimed AP-9 since your government, BNG has been doing his job. And his party, the People's Party, having an absolute majority, prevented him from producing that transfer. And you know perfectly well that the only initiative would be that there was during the past legislation to achieve the transfer was that I myself defended in this Parliament on behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group. Who divided it, Mr. Feijóo? Who divided and betrayed the interests of this country throughout the past legislation? Members of the People's Party in Madrid who do not care which is the general interest of the Greeks and the Greeks and preferred to defend Audasa's interests and I don't know what dark interests you can have on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u12	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u13	But look, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, I think by looking to the past we'll never solve anything at all. And we offer a real pact, not that you tell us we have to shut up to what is a true indentation and a real scam for this country. First question: will you say something about the central government's attempt to veto the debate of a law that we unanimously approve?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u15	And the second and most important: will I tell Mr. Rajoy that, if there is money to rescue peas, the first must be the peas of Galicia and that before rescue any ruinous highway of Madrid Galicia has to be first?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u17	We have the tender hand, but to defend this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u19	Not for pacts of silence against the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u20	Thank you, your time is up, Mrs. Pontón. Thank you. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u21	Your Honor, it's very important to have memory in everything, in politics too. Mrs. Pontón, I remember perfectly what the position of the BNG in relation to the highway — you too — was a knife for the country [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The highway in Galicia assumed, at the end of Orders, that the cows had stopped giving milk; the razord assumed, Your Honor, that they could not make the bridge of Rande; the razord assumed, Your Honor, that they had paralysed the highway of the Atlantic and the development of the country for years as a result of their proposals and their nationalism rample, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue with our memory. When the concession deadline is extended, why don't you say it is extended as a result that the concessionaire did Fene-Ferrol and Rande-Puxeiros free? Why don't you say so, Your Honor? Why don't you say that the state has changed the extension of the concession because the concessionaire paid off her pocket miles of highway without pay? Second question, Your Honor, that you should not forget. And the third question you should not forget is that you ruled in the country. Why didn't you ask for the AP-9 transfer, Your Honor? No, you have agreed with Zapatero's government not to reprobate Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez in the Senate in exchange for minor transfers, including the castle of Monterrey. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Mrs. Pontón, I remember, and as I remember, I won't forget my country's commitments. It won't be easy to transfer, there are many autonomous communities that have applied for transfers from their highways. And, of course, Your Honor, I will not deceive the Greeks. It's extremely difficult to lift the rates of the highways, and more at this moment. Ma'am, where do we get the money from? From the pensions? Education? Health care? Your Honor, when you break a highway, you know that you have to fulfill the concession contracts. I suppose in complying with the law, you agree, whether they're Madridns, Galicians, bathtubs or navarres. But, Mrs. Pontón, as I remember, let me bring the collation what you yourself voted for — yes, Your Honor, I leave the Journal of Sessions — in 2007 to a proposal from the People's Party, when we were in the opposition defending the same as now in the Government, in which we asked for the transfer of AP-9: "No law proposal for its full debate in which the transfer of AP-9 to the Government of Spain is requested: Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to address the Government of the State in order to request the transfer..." Year 2007, you were in Madrid and here. The result of the vote: votes in favour of requesting the transfer, 36 from the People's Party of Galicia; votes against, 38 from the BNG and PSOE. Mrs. Pontón, you should not lose your memory, you voted against the transfer of the Atlantic Highway to Galicia, Your Honor. At least apologize and don't let anyone be deceived. [[Applause]] Mrs. Pontón, is it really important to remember? I'm sorry you don't remember what you do. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo asks for the floor.]] Yeah, what do you want the word for?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u23	To correct my own words, as set out in Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u24	If it's for rectification...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u25	Good. I would like to tell Mr Feijó that in fact there was this debate in this Parliament that year.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u26	No, no. That's not rectification... sorry, sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u27	...there was this debate in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u28	What do you have to correct?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u29	...but what lies is Mr. Feijóo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u30	No, what's he gonna fix? No, no, no. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u31	...when he tells us we didn't defend the transfer of AP-9.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u32	No, no. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u33	Read or hear the debate of the Journal of Sessions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u34	Mrs. Pontón, you don't have the floor. You don't have the floor. That's not rectification. [[Applause]] There's nothing in the record. We turn to Mr. Fernández Leicega's question. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the opinion of the Government of Galicia in relation to the normative changes envisaged in the educational field
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u35	Whenever you want, Mr. Leicega.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u36	Good morning, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. I have to tell you that we are very concerned, very concerned about the consequences of the implementation of LOMCE and its calendar in this course, and in particular with regard to what happens in the second degree of bachelor's degree and in the proofs of access to university at the end of this course 2016-2017. The students and students who have to face them are also concerned with us, their families and the teacher who has to work with them at this level of education to prepare them to overcome these tests. We've already taken over a third of the course and nobody knows very well what's going to happen at the end of this course, what's going to be the content of these tests and what's going to be the procedure for evaluating the academic training of students and thus allowing them to access the university teachings they want. Uncertainty weighs like a slate on 15,000 pupils and students of this level of education in Galicia in this course. You know how I am that the problem comes from the Wert Law, the Wert Law creates revolutions at the end of each education cycle, and it also allows the possibility that each university will put in place specific tests to assess the students who want to go to them. And the consequences are well known: it is difficult to access university, which was surely one of the objectives not declared by the minister, but, in any case, unnecessarily complicates a procedure like that of the PAUs, which had absolutely no problem and which were socially perfectly accepted. And besides, the procedure breaks the single district, which is a very valid instrument for everyone in Spanish to go to the university they want, to the university of their choice. In general, the implementation of LOMCE has become a problem, a problem also for the autonomous communities that must apply it and for the educational centres of each of them. As a result, he had an important social response, and that social response was also political. The Government did not listen to the autonomous communities, and until very recently, until the end of July of this same year, it launched a real decree to implement it in its entirety. It's true that you're now rectifying, but the rectification takes place late, wrong and the trail. It's getting late, bad and the trail because it doesn't solve the problems, it doesn't solve the question of how you're going to make that access to the university, it doesn't guarantee the single district, which are the desires, as I said before, of the whole educational community and the students. To correct without suspending LOMCE for overthrow is to unnecessarily complicate things. The next few weeks are scheduled to hold a sectoral education conference at the end of this month. You have the opportunity there to rectify your position, which has so far been accommodating to the position of the Government, and to join this position: suspending LOMCE, reorganizing the PAUs and allowing to maintain the single district. This is the only reasonable option. What's your position at that sectoral education conference, Mr. Núñez Feijóo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u37	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u38	Thank you very much, Your Honor. As you know, Mr. Leicega, you and I have the commitment to comply with the laws, all the laws. So neither you nor I can discuss compliance. We can discuss the possibility of trying to improve them, about the possibilities we have within the law of adapting them to the autonomous Greek community, but in no case can we discuss whether or not we comply with the laws. You recognized him in an interview near the autonomous elections on September 22, in which you said, "We have to comply with the law, we cannot be insubmitted to the rules of the state. We'll work to make these revals and the whole Wert Law change, but above all an administration has to comply with the law." That's what we've been doing, Mr. Leicega, the same thing you defend, which is to comply with the law. And, in fact, in the 2014-2015 course we applied the primary decrees and the decree of basic vocational training, and we fulfilled the law: we strengthen the basic competencies, two hours in mathematics; we ensure that Galicia's own language is in equal conditions that the language of the entire state during the hours; and finally, in basic vocational training we approve 22 titles in an appropriate offer according to Galicia's needs. In the following course, in the course 2015-2016 we passed new decrees for curricula adapted to the first and third of the ESO and the first of the Bachelorate. We also expand, within that adaptation, the hours of mathematics — three hours more — we strengthen the autonomy of the centers, we open up more options to build our own training curriculum, and we also maintained the linguistic balance between Greek and Spanish. Your Honor, in the last year, as you know — but you know it in a very prominent way — there was a blockade within the Spanish Government. There was, therefore, no government that could make decisions, since the Government was in office almost a year. We, at any rate, continue to work in Galicia, work with the rectors and continue to work and to put our position into practice. It is clear that the position of the Galician Union was transferred to the Government of Spain, and, as soon as the Minister of Education and Culture took possession, the minister made a series of statements in which you are sure to agree, at least with most of them. First, suspending the academic effects of the evaluation until the arrival of an education pact, which the Socialist Party was asking for. Secondly, there are no academic effects of ESO and Bacharelate evaluations. That is, it's not necessary to examine with academic effects on the ESO and the Bachelorate to obtain the title of the ESO and the Bachelorate. The third question is that on the 28th, in fact, there is a meeting called for the realization of the scope and content of this event. And finally, Your Honor, there is an agreement to create a parliamentary subcommittee to try to reach a pact in education. I suppose, Your Honor, you'll have to keep working there and you'll have to keep looking for meeting points. In short, what the minister has already announced — to reassure him — is that universities will maintain the single district; that there will be an extension of the absence of academic effects in the evaluations of ESO and the Bachelorate; that we will seek a national pact for education; and, finally, that we will only take an examination, similar to that of access to the university, on the second-second-of-baccalato trunks and, therefore, the urgent, indeed, is to realize the content and scope of that examination so that people who are taking second-of-a-baccalato know exactly what they have to do to get into college. As you see, Your Honor, there are quite a few points of encounter between your proposals and the answers I have just mentioned. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u40	Yes, in relation to compliance with the law, because we can no longer agree, what happens is that political positions are adopted at sectoral conferences and, as a result of political positions, legislative changes can occur. A short time ago, writer Almudena Grandes said in an article about Rajoy's government position on this subject: "The Government is willing to carry its law so that the same law is not repealed, that the Government itself proposes to amend to ensure its nullity." That's the situation, which is easy to understand even though it seems like a very reverse formulation. I mean, Rajoy's government doesn't want to acknowledge the social and political failure of the Wert Law and, as a result, it's endlessly tying—which Mr. Rajoy would say. Or paraphrasing again, "We'll change the LOMCE or not." For that is the situation in which we are now, and the truth is, when there is a complex problem like this — because at the same time, as you well know, in the past legislation, the parliamentary processing of the suspension to derogate LOMCE, and now too, and possibly that processing ends in March — when there is a complex problem like this — as Alejandro Magno said — it is necessary to cut the churidian knot. And cutting the Gordian knot means clarifying that LOMCE has to be legally suspended because, if not, neither that suspension of the academic value of the revalids has at this time legal validity or the minister of education can say anything about the organization of the PAUs, because the PAUs do not exist, nor can they even be attributed to the organization from Article 38 of LOMCE, because that enables the bachelor's revalids, which is a part of the bachelor's degree but not from access to the university. So what needs to be done is very simple: to defend at the sectoral conference that LOMCE must be suspended to derogate and facilitate an education pact, which must be resumed by means of a decree that then validates the Government in Congress, and at the same time maintain the single district, which is currently not guaranteed. Because you know how I am that at the moment universities can organize specific evidence based on the LOMCE article that enables them. So what you have to say to me is, we will defend in this sectoral conference the suspension of LOMCE to derogate. So, at that moment, I'll be quiet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u41	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u42	Your Honor, you know that the situation of education in Spain is a better situation. You also know that all education laws applied in Spain are socialists, except for LOMCE. So, Your Honor, if the situation of education in Spain is improved and if all the education laws except LOMCE were socialist, I suppose you will have some things to say. Your Honor, one of the issues you asked when you came to the government with Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, what was it? Denial of an education law that had just come into force. The first thing they did was they didn't get a pact or an agreement or look for meeting points. No, it was to repeal the law that had not yet entered into force. Your Honor, do you have a kind of divine mandate by which education laws in Spain can only be socialist and any education law that is not radicalist is bad? Mr Leiceaga — I insist — you are a teacher, and all the laws of education that have been enacted in Spain have been unilaterally passed without agreement by the majority group of the opposition in Spain. And that's why, Your Honor, we're going to try to find an agreement, yes, Your Honor. You've never agreed to an education law with the People's Party. The People's Party, of course, is the majority party of the opposition when you're ruling. [[Strong murmurers.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that now you may not be the majority party of the opposition, but we are still the majority party of the opposition when you rule, gentlemen. They never enacted a law. [[Applause]] So what the Socialist Party wants to make a law of education is new, and it looks good to us, Your Honor. We're going to try to find an education pact, it's good. Of course, we would like an education pact with the Socialist Party even though the Socialist Party never accepted an education pact with the People's Party, and the first thing it did was to repeal the law that had just come into force adopted by an absolute majority government. Look, Your Honor, the proofs of access to the university are going to be regulated in a clear and diaphragm way, and that's the main objective of this government. Let us speak, yes; let us try to reach a pact, yes; let the Education Sub-Commission work for an education reform pact, yes; but let us realize the content and scope of the university access tests, too, and that's the urgency. Your Honor, at this moment, within the competences of the Autonomous Community — because you and I are talking about state competences — is why we are going to follow the course of Galicia's continuing to be the autonomous community with more teachers per student, we are going to follow the course of Galicia's being an autonomous community where foreign languages can be learned without the necessity of the country's heritage and pocket, that is to say, bringing more foreign languages to public education; we are going to follow the course of more technologies in schools and improvements in public schools. Your Honor, Galicia exceeds the average of all competences in the PISA report on Spain. And three subjects, two of us are above the OECD. Your Honor, today in Galicia we have the smallest school failure in history. So, Your Honor, I do not want to take the opportunity to thank the teachers for their work and to thank the increase in the quality of education in the country, and of course I do not want to miss the opportunity to tell you, as a spokesman for the Socialist Party, that we would only agree a law with the Socialist Party on education. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. in Marea, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece in relation to the socio-economic consequences of the segregation and sale of assets of the company Ferroatlantica
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u44	Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u45	Good morning. Mr Núñez, all Galicia knows that the Galician Union has exclusive competence over the administrative regime of concession of hydroelectric production of Ferroatlantics. In addition, the entire Coast of Death knows that the segregation of hydroelectric production and ferroatlantic production activities is prohibited in existing concessions. The entire Corcubion River is aware that in this administrative clause it is established that in the event of the loss of ownership of Ferroatlantics of the hydroelectric concession would lead to the extinction of this concession. All Cee knows that in 1996 a judicial report by the Galician Government of Galicia, established or dictated the impossibility of segregating both activities for being thus bound by its own contractual law, which are the requirements of administrative concession at that time in force. Similarly, in any database you can consult — for example, in the open, the General Council of the Judiciary — any of the judgments affecting this case. One of them is that of 9 May 1996 of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, or another, of 18 October 2001, where in both cases the impossibility of segregating these activities in this concession is legally certified. Finally, everyone with access to the Internet can consult the official bulletin of this court, from the Galician Parliament, of February 19, 2016, where the Council unanimously urges the Galician Council to take the legally appropriate measures to prevent the segregation of the production of electricity and railways by Ferroatlantics. With all this general knowledge, which only yesterday Miguel Tellado seemed to ignore, the workers and workers of Ferroatlantics, and in general the people of the Coast of Death, would like to ask you a question, but they can't because they asked to meet you and you don't receive them. This is not a problem, however, because today In Marea wants to be the voice of the workers of Ferroatlantics and, in general, of all the people on the Coast of Death who are concerned, and rightly, for their future; for the industrial future, for the future of employment and for the future in general of their region. You listen to them and you receive them, you receive them and you listen to their demands. While you don't, we only ask you the question that Ferroatlantic workers and workers would ask you, which is the following: Will you take the legally appropriate measures to prevent the segregation of ironoatlantic energy production activities?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u46	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u47	Your Honor, since you know all this, I suppose you know that the company hasn't applied for segregation. Therefore, Your Honor, it is very difficult to speak to us on a question which is not put to the Government of the United States. If you want to ask me, if the company had asked the question and the proposal, what would the Government do, we'd probably be facing another question and another answer. I could finish this intervention simply by telling them: we know all that, ladies and gentlemen, we know the TSJ judgment, we know the Supreme Court's judgment, we know that we have been long since 1992 — not since 1996 — with this concession and that this concession has a union between industrial activity and hydraulic activity, of course. But I want to tell you, Your Honor, that Ferroatlantica has not submitted any requests to the Government of the United States. I'm also surprised that you don't know that the Business Committee was received by the Government, Your Honor, by the Government, even by the Government in functions. So, the Ferroatlantic Company Committee was received by the Government, and the Soap Business Committee, which I suppose also concerns you, or not? Yeah, okay, so the Soap Business Committee, too. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, I will receive the mayors, who are the authorities who reflect the interest of the citizens, of course I will, and it is an honour to meet with the mayors of the Coast of Death, a very special area for the Government of Galicia. I'll get them this week. The People's Parliamentary Group therefore received the Business Committee and the Government received the Business Committee. And not only do we receive them but we will continue to contact the Business Committee and continue to contact the mayors. And I assure you that we will comply with the law, Mr. Villares, you have no doubt. We are going to comply with the law and, therefore, we know that with the law in hand and with the information we have in hand, the Government can only ratify that the public interest in concessions is still in force and that there is no element that has changed this condition. You know — I suppose — that this company has informed the Soap Business Committee, for example, that it has an industrial plan to invest more than 40 million euros in Soap. And it seems you've also informed the Committee of Business on the Coast of Death that you have proposals for investment in the factory. And the company, as reflected by the business committees and the media, is valuing the possibility of requesting authorization to sell the assets and with that money investing in the Costa da Morte and in Sabón. Your Honor, when that company asks the Galician board and asks for the concession, I tell you that, with the information we have, with the law we have and with the judgments we have, we see that it has changed nothing and, therefore, we think it has to remain united to hydroelectric and industrial exploitation of the Death Coast. So, Mr. Villares, you have partial information, but I'm telling you, at the moment, we can say nothing because we have not been questioned at all. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For you it's, like that song of La Mandragora, a loud rumor. Well, it turns out that this burdo rumor, of course, should make you think about it. Do you know that the company has already informed the workers, on October 27, 2016, of the intention of segregating the production of Ferroatlantics in terms we're talking about here? It's a rumor, but they got to them directly from the company. As a rumor in which you don't believe it, I suppose you won't know that the company has hired, in turn, another company that is knocking the door all over the Coast of Death convincing of the kindness of that plan that you announced here, plans that may be very edifying but that in any case are simple plans that nothing has to do with the current regime of concession. And therefore, for good reason they would not prevent the termination of the concession in the event of such segregation which the concession itself would not authorize. But, above all, if it is a rumor, it is also not possible for this House to position itself in February 2016 in that sense or that this very week, municipalities such as that of Muxía to be unanimously positioned — as well as the con celers of the People's Party — by asking this House and its President, the President of the Government of Greece, to take the measures legally appropriate for the maintenance of the condition of not being able to segregate in Ferroatlantics the activities of ferroalleration and production of electrical energy. If it is a rumor and therefore you do not pronounce yourself, to see the Members and Members pronounce themselves in the previous legislation and to see that they pronounce their concierge and concierge on the Coast of Death, if it is a mere rumor. Yesterday the PNL presented by the People's Party said that, in their case, the necessary studies will be done. They don't have to, they're done. There have been studies, and there are judgments that make it clear that there is no segregation. Then be clear and say yes or no. We thought you should say no. Workers and workers think you have to say no. So, since everyone thinks it's necessary to say no because it's the best for the region and for the future of the Coast of Death, because it's the best for the safeguard of public interest, public interest which has also been conditioned on the link of hydroelectric production and industrial production because people on the Coast of Death have already paid a very high price for hydroelectric production. They paid for their territory, they had social costs, they had environmental costs, they had costs in their own health, and it's logical and it's natural that the public interest now constantly reverts — at least in part — to the link between the wealth produced by hydroelectric energy and the business future and the industrial future of this region. Sit down with the workers and the workers, receive them, stand by their side, defend the area of the Costa da Morte and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u50	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u51	...defense the whole of your country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u52	Gazas, Mr. Villares. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u53	Mr. Villares, you know perfectly well that administrative records don't start with rumors, I suppose you do. I suppose you know that the basic principle of administrative law is writing. And so, Your Honor, since the company didn't hand over to Galicia's board or a single paper asking for anything, we can't answer it. As you are a Member in the name and representation of many voters, of course I answer when you ask me. And I've already told you that I know those judgments, I know the terms of the concession, and I'm telling you that right now we, with the information we have -- which are media information, the company's conversations, above all, with the company's committees -- know that the company is valuing the possibility of requesting an authorization to channel the hydroelectric power stations and make an industrial plan in Soapón and the Death Coast. What I can tell you, with the data that the Economic Council has, I would like to reiterate, Your Honor: we understand that public interest is still linked to concessions and, therefore, we cannot authorize this segregation as we currently have. That's what I can move you, Your Honor. But I think you should know that in Sabon and the Coast of Death are waiting for investments. And all that, Your Honor, is what we have to vent, and certainly according to right always, Mr. Villares. But all that needs to be known. And that's why I'm meeting all the mayors on the Death Coast this week, and that's why the Government is still in contact with the Soap Business Committee and the Death Coast Committee, both. I suppose you're interested, too, and all the workers in the country. And I very much celebrate, Mr. Villares, that you ask me your first question concerned about employment in the country. I hope, Your Honor, that you have a chance to change, because everything is possible, you see here some who didn't want to transfer AP-9 now want it. You probably, Your Honor, may change your mind. I suppose you can go to Mugardos, Ares, Fene and Ferrol, and tell the workers that you've changed your mind and that you don't want me to close Reganosa. I suppose you can now go to Vigo and tell all the Citroën workers that you have been confused by voting against the law that enables new installations and the expansion of Citroën facilities. You, Your Honor, certainly can go to Ferrol and tell the Navantia workers that this is about making contracts for Saudi Arabia because your Madrid bosses don't want it, but here you don't know what you want in this matter. And you're sure you can go to Rozas and tell the people of Lugo and the interior that Rozas is not a NATO base, nor are we going to make planes for NATO. We're going to make unmanned planes, civilians, to give technological employment to the province of Lugo. Your Honor, I'm glad you're starting to change your mind, that's very important, Mr. Villares. [[Applause]] But, look, Your Honor, have the conviction that, if you defend the workers on the Death Coast, so do I. No doubt about it, Mr. Villares. You know why? Because mostly the workers on the Death Coast wanted us to be here, and we won't fail them, Your Honor. And so we're interested in jobs, which we're not interested in, are conflicts. We are interested that there is industrial investment in the country, that we are interested in companies operating in the country, that we are interested in industrial plans for all of Galicia, that we are interested in, lordship, what interests the Greek families. Why? Because we represent the Greek families. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's resume the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and 13 other Members, on the demand by the Government of Greece to the Vigo Council for the realization of the technological adaptations necessary to reconcile the charging devices of urban transport Vitrasa with the Metropolitan Transport Card of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u55	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u56	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u57	Good morning, everyone. President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by saying that it is a pity to have to stand in the Galician Parliament with a GNP which is the consequence or fruit of an administration which has not been who, and is not, to comply with the requests and proposals that emerge from here, nothing more and nothing less than to make life simpler, more comfortable and more economical to citizens. I'm referring to the Vigo Metropolitan Area, the Vigo Metropolitan Transport and the Vigo Town Hall. In this Chamber a law was adopted unanimously, after long hours of debate, with great effort by parliamentary groups and consensus as a flag. It is very important to take this into account in this LNP: consensus. All the political sensibilities that this House, which are not few, have been combined, and so, with that conciliatory spirit and a law on the role, have established a number of conditions that would have to be developed in southern Galicia under that document. Without a doubt, one of the lungs of the Metropolitan Area Law is transport, the real advance in mobility among citizens who geographically make up the Vigo metropolitan area. In April 2015 he launched the Metropolitan Transport Plan in the Vigo area, and did so with the 12 municipalities that agreed and signed the agreement with the Galician Union: Baiona, Cangas, Montes, Moaña, Mos, Nigrán, Redondola, O Porriño, Salceda de Caselas, Salvador do Mine, Soutomairo and Pazos de Borbén. The Vigo Town Hall used to beg. Months later, after checking the advantages acquired by all the citizens of the municipalities that were subscribed to metropolitan transport, Vigo decided to join the plan in July this same year. At that time, Vigo's neighbours and public transport users applauded this step and the decision, for they had checked the advantages and, above all, the savings they expected to travel with the blue card I have here, so there's no doubt that this card is the one that all Vigo citizens and the Vigo metropolitan area have to use to travel and exchange transport between their municipalities. The paper supports everything and therefore the signing of the accession to the Metropolitan Transport Plan is made — the agreement too — by the municipalities, and by the Vigo Council itself in July, but not the deployment, which, like any change, requires certain adaptations, in this case of urban buses that have to modify the machinery of the collection system. According to the agreement, the Vigo Council would integrate into the Galician Metropolitan Transport Network under the terms and conditions laid down in the framework agreement, in addition to a price table applicable on the various metropolitan, urban and/or interurban journeys, originating in or destination in Vigo. In this agreement, in clause 7, Vitrasa, which is the concessionaire of urban and public transport of the Vigo Council — Vigesa de Transporto S.A. —, both Vitrasa and the Vigo Council, expressly assumes the commitment to approve the current cancellation system for its operation in the Metropolitan Transport Plan. Despite the time spent — I insist that since July, and we are now almost in December — neither the Vigo or Vitrasa Council nor the manufacturer of these cancellation machines have started the previous process, by not presenting any machine adapted to this card — I insist, this card. At Vigo we can only pay with this — which is Vitrasa’s — and we should be able to pay everyone with this and the same tasks. What's the matter is they sign agreements, but they don't do it. And in this sense, beyond the technological problems, the fundamental problem that is part of the Vigo and Vitrasa Council is that the commitment made in the convention, which is a system of specific tariffs, is being met. What happens is that the background is that there is a tariff regime different from the agreed and the one established in the Galician Metropolitan Transport Plan. Therefore, the start date now depends only on the time the Vigo Town Hall uses to adapt the urban bus charging devices so they are compatible with the metropolitan transport card. That is why we, from the People's Parliamentary Group, want to urge the Council of Galicia to request the Vigo Council to carry out this procedure as soon as possible. Why? Because, in addition to being an inevitable commitment — I insist that the agreement is already signed — at the time Vitrasa bus pickup machines are adapted to the card, users will begin to benefit from the savings and will pay 86 cents — which is the prescribed rate — and not 1.32 euros, which is what they are paying right now. This wait is already too long, and the procedures by the Board are already done, that's clear. There's nothing more to check in other towns and other areas of Galicia, where metropolitan transport works perfectly. The technicians at Junta have already asked the Vigo Consignor to ignore the convention clause, which specifies that the price of an urban trip is 0.86 and not 1.32. But here's the point of the matter. The Vigo Town Hall must comply and Vitrasa company must comply. If in this Parliament, as I said before, we had to negotiate, we had to cooperate, agree and debate much to reach agreements and approve the Law of the Metropolitan Area, we cannot accept in this House that in Vigo City Hall, in Vigo City, we are witnessing the opposite, since now this seems like a battle between the concessionary company and the Vigo Town Hall itself, and still above putting the blame on a third party that things don't work; as always, putting the blame on the Council of Galicia. And besides, that the case has to go to the Advisory Council because it's embarrassing, as it's already happened with other previous cases. This is one subject that only has two positions, one positioning is to think about saving and the interests of the neighbors of the Vigo metropolitan area through collaboration, and another is to think about the personal benefits and the permanent struggle between administrations to get election receipts, which, as you will know here, are bread for today but hungry for tomorrow. It is clear that it is our duty in this Parliament to defend users and to ensure that the laws adopted here and the agreements issued by those laws are complied with. Some data that encourages us to move forward with this PNL: almost half a million neighbors in the Vigo metropolitan area will have some savings per year — if they are frequent users — of between 600 and 1,000 euros per year of savings. The comfort, mobility and openness between towns is what promotes more opportunities and ensures easier access to all kinds of services. We need to move forward not to stay behind and be fully performance when the large infrastructures of southern Galicia are made, such as the intermodal station or the extension of the Rande bridge. So all these delays I have mentioned, this attitude, in principle, prevents the metropolitan area from being built up as such, because it cannot be constituted until there is an effective integration of Vigo urban transport. It was precisely today the date proposed for the establishment of the area and it had to be postponed. Now it looks like you've been summoned on December 1st; that is, in seven days you'll have to be all solved and the canceling machines already installed, and we can citizens of the Vigo metropolitan area, without exception and without being first and second citizens, travel with this card and pay the corresponding rate. I hope December 1 is for the constitution of the metropolitan area. We insist on the need to start transport, which is why we justify the urgency of this debate. We think it's urgent that this be done as soon as possible, and it turns out to be an argument, besides, weak, a vulgar argument, to blame you for everything that doesn't go to Galicia. Because we came from an election process on September 25, and we were able to elect the president who signed that law and the same Chair who brought this Metropolitan Transport Plan forward from Galicia. The only conclusion we draw in this case is that the Vigo Council and the concessionaire of urban transport continue to bet on Spain's most expensive ticket — and if not the first one is the second most expensive one in Spain — on the torpeity, on the delay and on the lack of effectiveness and loyalty to agreements and citizens, because the agreement is signed with a series of conditions. The area must be homogeneous in order not to fail. In this GNP we call for cooperation to be bigger, to be stronger, in southern Galicia; we appeal to the height of sight and not to the politics of the doll, the president of a metropolitan area, the metropolis of a metropolitan area, can't go to the mine; and we appeal to the loyalty and the commitments that were made in the signing of the agreement. I end by saying that the politician who thinks that in the 21st century competing is better than cooperating, because the fortress in southern Galicia is not in politics, that has to be clear to all of us; above all — as it will happen in the north — is in half a million inhabitants that make up it, which make up the metropolitan area, that is greatness and wealth, it is in its geographic reality and it is in similarities and not in differences. That is why, for these reasons, for the reasons set out above, because there is an agreement signed and because the agreements signed have to be complied with — because, if not, I do not know what guarantee or trust will give us a politician who signs an agreement and does not comply with it — for these reasons, we ask for support and vote in favour of this GNP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Egerique. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Merlo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u59	Good morning. We in En Marea, and as I also saw it, we believe in the general interest of the metropolitan area and all the benefits that for the neighbors and neighbors of it will have the application of the provisions of Law 14/2016, signed on July 27, once all that is in line with that metropolitan area and not only the article 21 of the public transport of travellers. It is clear that there is a delay — as the honourable Member said — in the real integration of the local transport concessionaire in Vigo, and we agree that everything seems to indicate that the real problem is in ensuring the payment to the concessionaire of the price which exists, of 1.32, and not only in technical matters. Users in the metropolitan area are already benefiting from important discounts today in river services and in the interurban services, but, of course, with the incorporation of transport in the urban area, that savings, that improvement for their economy, will be much greater. So, on that basis, we agree very much that it is necessary to take all possible initiatives to unlock that situation. But we cannot limit this initiative, as is stated in this PNP, to only the subject of the cancelers and their installation by the concessionaire Vitrasa. We must urge the signatory parties to this agreement, of that agreement, to ensure that they are installed at once and that they are guaranteed, or negotiated or envisaged, to carry out the reflection in that agreement. As was explained, and since the implementation of the urban transport of the city of olivic is necessary for the actual operation of the Metropolitan Area of Vigo, we believe that the fulfilment of the urban transport of the convention must be urgent without passing the ball to each other, harming — as usual — always users and users. As we have already said, we believe in the benefits of the metropolitan area for all citizenship, not just at the level of transport. But with regard to this paragraph, and seeing the need to move forward, we tabled an amendment to the following points: that the Galician Board is urged to assume the proportional part of the urban ticket according to the signed agreement and to ensure that the quality of the service is improved by adapting improvements to the coordination and physical connectivity between the various services of metropolitan interest in the area — i.e. rail, rail, rail transport by rail and buses — and not only by means of the unified tariff. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u60	Thank you, Mr. Merlo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u61	Good morning. The BNG is here, of course, to make opposition, to make rigorous and forceful opposition and also constructive. It's about to make opposition and it's mostly about making proposals, making proposals and alternatives for the future for the country and for the people who really need it. The BNG is about to oppose, but what surprises us is that the People's Party is also here to oppose, to oppose municipal governments in this case. It's, of course, a paradox that comes here to bring proposals to oppose the Vigo Government, it must be that he doesn't trust his representatives very much; in fact, they seem to want to change them. We believe that these discrepancies with regard to the metropolitan transport agreement have to have another avenue of solution that is not to bring a non-law proposal to this Parliament. On the part of the Galician Council, a consultation has already been called upon to the Consultative Council, and it seems that the Vigo Council wants to resolve this dispute — which focuses primarily on the question of price — by consulting the dispute, which is what provides for the agreement. In any case, what we say to them is that they should negotiate, sit down and negotiate, and don't bring this matter here and use Parliament as an aristocracy against a municipal government. Deep down, we think this is a demonstration of government weakness, a demonstration of its inability to sit down and talk about negotiating and consensualizing these things. And that's why we call upon dialogue, agreement and responsibility in the face of the confrontation in which you seem to be installed. And for example, we can quote the Deputy of Pontevedra, where they're exerting an opposition that I would qualify, in a manner comented, like montara; they're thrown into the mountain, they're making opposition from trenches, cracks included. And speaking of the Deputy of Pontevedra, I have to tell you — I regret that Mr Rueda is not here, who is the provincial chief, who is leading this Montaraz opposition — that we are still waiting — and we have asked him on numerous occasions — for the People's Party to condemn the mafia campaign — because it cannot be called otherwise — of attacks, infusions and threats — including diancs and points of view, and death crowns included — against members of the Galician Nationalist Bloc in the provincial deputy simply by ending prejudices and privileges created by the provincial governments of the People's Party. They have a great opportunity to make a clear and explicit condemnation in this Parliament of these mafia practices. [[Applause]] Well, the truth is, this line of Parliament's use and the campaign they're campaigning in parliament is not strange to us, because in fact a few days ago Mr Feijóo has already declared open the precipitate of the municipal elections of 2019. So we're not surprised at this positioning. Well, in any case, this line of confrontation I think you'll be very grateful to the mayor of Vigo because it's seen that he gives you very good receipts. We are asking you from this rostrum, from this Parliament, to withdraw this proposal. Moreover, since they have consulted the Advisory, it makes no sense to debate this issue here, which solves the Advisory, which solves the dispute. In any case, sit down and talk, stop digging trenches and hold bridges with municipal governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u62	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u63	Thank you very much. Good morning, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mrs. Egerique, you spoke of vulgarity. The truth is to start by talking about the policy of the worm is not an example of class and elegance. I was told by a fellow, who's from Arousa — and I think this from the shellfish knows — that handling the monkeys is not always easy. In fact, remember, 17 of 27 concelers — I say if you have any arithmetic problems —... President, I would ask... [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Well, Mr. Feijóo, when they took possession of his advisers, said — not one of those grandloquent phrases that he has used us to — that up to that moment it was not worth anything — he did it right. I thought it also referred to a chronological approach to the matter. Today I see him as answering, speaking of the year 2006 and Zapatero, he obviously did not refer to those issues. And I am going to talk about history a little bit, Mrs. Egerique. See, in 2012 the People's Group, which you were not part of, passed a law in the metropolitan area against Vigo, with the sole vote of the People's Party. And the citizens took note and — I insist — 17 of 27 concellers; and you, from 13 to 7. Stop thinking what's really the problem. And after these municipal elections, indeed, in a fall of the horse on the way to Damascus, Mr. Feijóo realized that he had to do something in Vigo. And indeed, that law has been amended to correct exactly that predisposition against Vigo's council and its citizens. And now what you're doing, after the approval of that law and seeing the municipalities on the horizon, is putting back sticks on the wheels because you don't want the Vigo metropolitan area, because it's a counterpower to the Galician Union. And that's what's behind the political maneuvers of the People's Party in relation to the Vigo metropolitan area, whether metropolitan transport or any other circumstance. Mrs Egerique, see, in the Statute for the Autonomy of Galicia, in Article 27.8, it says that the interurban transport of travellers is the exclusive competence of the Autonomic Government, and therefore its financing as well. And all the more the municipalities do is a political commitment from the municipalities of the big cities and the municipalities of the metropolitan areas to promote this transport. But what can't be, Mrs. Egerique — and you've taught two cards very well — is that the board invites and the municipalities pay. I refuse, within this campaign of advertising and propaganda, to which with a card that puts "Gallic Union" the Vigo Council — or any other council of Galicia cities — puts paste on the table. Because we are not willing to do and fund Mr. Feijóo's advertising campaigns, we are not willing, Mrs. Egerique. And you know perfectly well that's the ultimate goal of this initiative. [[Applause]] By the way, you spend 10 million euros on metropolitan transport, and if you don't have the budgetary reference, I'll tell you: 08.02.512.A.4701 — I say it if you need the data. The Vigo Council devotes itself to urban transport — only the Vigo Council — EUR 12 million, and the whole of the urban municipalities of Galicia devote to urban transport EUR 40 million, Mrs Egerique. So, come here and tell us stories -- I'm not going to talk about monkeys or, at last, vulgarities -- that have nothing to do with the interests of Vigo citizens but with the partisan and financial interests of the Galician Union. By the way, you, on your own initiative, say one thing — not in the resolution part — says: "Free urban transport in case they use urban transport for their travels before or after." So this is the fundamental question, and this is the technical question that is pending to resolve. And by the way, you too, who told me about the agreement, read the seventh stipulation. Usually, legal texts and agreements should start with 1 and end with the last because they are better understood. And I'd like you to read the second and sixth. And you know perfectly well that the technical difficulties are on the way out of the Vigo Town Hall, because no doubt the machines don't recognize whether we're talking about just an urban trip or an urban trip. So that's the point, Mrs. Egerique. [[Murmurs.]] And Vitrasa's report — by the way, reports that it was published in the press and that the corresponding board did not deny and therefore I am going to give the fact that it is true; because, I insist, there was no doubt—in the end in the conclusions it says textually: "At the meeting held on 10 November — which was attended jointly by Together Together Together, Council and the company — a specific commission was proposed between the three parties for the treatment, realization and resolution of this problem." I insist — something that is not easy to know — if an urban journey...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u64	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u65	...—Filled, Mr President—will have an interurban continuity, because, if not, the Vigo Council is not obliged to assume it. And what they say is, "And the board didn't think it was necessary." If what was needed was the Advisory Council, there is another way to solve the problems of the agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u67	...which is the administrative dispute. Let's vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u68	Thank you, Mr. Losada. Replica from the author group of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Egerique.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u69	Thank you very much. First of all, to clarify, Mr. Losada, that I didn't say the doll was simple or complicated. I didn't get into that debate. I say that the policy that has to be practised in the 21st century is a bit of a point of view in that sense. And you don't come here to say that I'm defending concrete interests, because my duty is to defend the interests of the citizens of the metropolitan area, not the interests of a person, which is what you do here always, to defend the personal interests of the mayor of Vigo, Abel Caballero. I'm not going to do that, I'm going to defend the vigues, of course I'm going to defend the vigues and citizens of the Vigo metropolitan area. [[Applause]] Because if you signed that law and if you want to move forward in the Vigo metropolitan area, there can be no first and second citizens. And the metropolis that is Vigo has to be up to the circumstances. What's wrong? That every time something has left here since the year 2007 it hits there in the King's Square tower and there's always got to be trouble, there's always got to be fights, there's always got to be leaves and press leaves? And you too from here, from this rostrum, defending the interests of that person who is now mayor of Vigo, then you come here to tell us that if the election results are the election results... nothing clearer to think of results of electoral performance than your speech here today. I have to say that we cannot be subject to those whims and those disloyalties, Mr. Losada. If you sign an agreement under conditions, you have to comply with the agreements; otherwise, they are not signed. We had to wait from April until July, we saw in July that metropolitan transport was going to be a reality. And now we're waiting for what? Have you signed up yet? Then buy it. If so, meet the conditions. That's already at first. I wanted to make it clear to Mr Bará that what you are going to go to the Advisory Council is whether the constitution of the metropolitan area can be effective without the transport in operation, to clarify it. This GNP didn't have to exist. We're not going to pull it off, but it didn't have to exist because this had to be done by now. If we bring the GNP here today, it's because a person who signs a convention and has a very great responsibility in the Vigo Metropolitan Area doesn't meet his commitments. But this issue is crucial, and urgency, speed and speed are crucial. And don't tell me here that one asks and another pays, because — I insist — the paper bears everything and the agreements are there to read them, to fulfill them and to know what happens. So the arrangement now has to be between the Vigo Council and the urban concessionary company so that users, half a million people who use metropolitan transport, can move between the different municipalities without reaching Vigo with a border. The essence of a metropolitan area is cooperation rather than competition — I said it before and I'm going to repeat it now — but this cannot be known by a person who has always practiced with the principles of isolation. Therefore, if general interests and understanding dominate, they gain citizens, wins Vigo—of course Vigo—, wins Galicia and we all win. Thank you very much, Mr. Losada and my companions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u70	Excuse me, about the amendment...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u71	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's true. On the amendment, we're not going to accept the amendment because we think it's not on the subject. What we're asking here is that it be fulfilled. The Galician Council has fulfilled its commitment and what we're asking here is that the Vigo Council fulfils its commitment, and we're not going to accept the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u72	Thank you. We therefore vote for non-law proposals. We shut the doors. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u73	We begin by voting, firstly, that of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, on the recovery by the German Government of direct management and public exploitation, in full, of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, of Vigo. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luís Villares Naveira and 13 other Members, on the recovery by the Greek Government of direct management and public exploitation, in full, of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, de Vigo The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u74	We now vote in favour of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the reversal by the German Government of the granting of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital in Vigo for its public management. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela and two other Members, on the reversal by the Greek Government of the concession of the Hospital Álvaro Cunqueiro, of Vigo, for his public management. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u75	We now vote for the Parlia­mentary Group of En Marea on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and to the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies on the introduction of an amendment to Article 74.2 of the Consolidated Text of the Law regulating local farms, referring to the possibility of regulation by the municipalities of a bonus in the quota integrated with the taxation of immovable property. I was awaiting a transaction, I beg Mr. Sánchez that, if there is agreement, we read it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u76	I think so. Leo: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Board to agree with the Fegamp on a joint request to the Government of the State to encourage the amendment of Article 74.2 of the Consolidated Text of Local Farms for the purpose of including a new positive bonus of the habitual dwelling of up to 90% of the full share of the tax in favour of those taxable subjects who believe an economic situation of inadequate family income, modular depending on the catastrophic value of the immovable."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u77	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. I'm begging you to get to the service of the House. We voted for the transaction just read. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government and to the parliamentary groups of the Congress of Deputies regarding the introduction of an amendment to Article 74.2 of the Consolidated Text of the Law regulating local farms, referring to the possibility of regulation by the municipalities of a bonus in the full quota of the taxes on immovable property. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The result of the vote is positive. The text of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u78	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure adequate attention to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in the public health network, as well as the sexual and reproductive rights of rural women. He has already expressed his support for this non-legislation that does not support the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, does not support that of the People's Parliamentary Group either and accepts, as a transaction in the second, that of En Marea. If she can read it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u79	Yes, I wanted to ask if it would be possible if I voted separately on the first point of the non-law motion, in so far as health does not resort to the judgment against the woman of the Navy. And I read the transaction I came to with the second point of the amendment by En Marea, which would be: "The Galician Parliament urges the Parliament to inform in writing of the circumstances that motivate women to derive from Madrid clinics for an abortion, as well as make public on Sergas' official page, along with the number, rate and percentage, those that take place in private health."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u80	Thank you, if this transaction comes to us... We start by voting points. We voted in the first place — because she expressed it, which is the wife of the non-law proposal — point 1. Voting of point 1 of the Proposal is not G.P.'s law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure adequate attention to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in the public health network, as well as the sexual and reproductive rights of rural women The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 74. The voting is positive. This point 1 of the non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u81	We vote the rest of the points with the built-in transaction we just read. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, except for point 1 already voted, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to ensure adequate attention to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in the public health network, as well as the sexual and reproductive rights of women in rural areas The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes in favour,41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, these points of the non-law proposal are rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u82	We are now voting on the proposal by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the implementation by the German Government of the necessary actions with regard to the social agents and, in particular, with the trade unions representing the public sector in order to comply with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in respect of compensation for termination of employment contracts. There is a transaction pending, which, if Mr. Díaz Villoslada does well, we thank him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. On account of the transaction agreed with the En Marea and the BNG Group, the amendment is an amendment to add to the following wording: "The Greek Parliament urges the Galician Parliament to request the Government of the State to make the necessary change in Spanish labour law, and the group of experts created to study the aforementioned judgment as soon as possible so as to enable it to comply with it."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u84	Thank you, if you get to the services of the House, we thank you too. We therefore voted for it with this compromise proposal. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and three other Members, on the realization by the Italian Government of the necessary actions with social agents and, in particular, with trade unions representing the public sector for the fulfilment of the judgments delivered by the Court of Justice of the European Union in the field of compensation for termination of employment contracts The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 41. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u85	We voted for a non-legislative proposal from the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the employment regulation file in the People's Bank. No amendments were tabled. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the position of the Galician Parliament and the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the employment regulation file at the People's Bank. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 41; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u86	We are now voting on the proposal for a non-law of the People's Parliamentary Group on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the intentions of the Ferroatlantic company to sell the hydroelectric power stations of the Xallas and Grande rivers. The representative of the People's Parliamentary Group has already stated that he does not accept the amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Állado Filgueira and 13 other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the intentions of the Ferroatlantic company to sell the hydroelectric power stations of the rivers Xallas and Grande. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 33. The result of the vote is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u87	Finally, we voted in favour of the People's Parliamentary Group on the demand by the German Government to the Vigo Council for the technological adaptations necessary to bring the collection devices of the urban transport Vitrasa into line with the Galician Metropolitan Transport Card. The amendments were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and 13 other Members, on the demand by the Government of Galicia to the Vigo Council for the realization of the technological adaptations necessary to reconcile the collection devices of urban transport Vitrasa with the Metropolitan Transport card of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. Institutional statement on the occasion of the International Day of the Elimination of Violence against Women
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u88	Before I proceed on the agenda, the groups send me an institutional statement — by agreement of course — on the occasion of the 25th of November of the International Day of the Elimination of Violence against Women. And I read: "The Galician Parliament, on the occasion of the International Day for the Elimination of Gender Violence, which is commemorated on 25 November, wishes to demonstrate its firm commitment to the eradication of any kind of discrimination that allows this violence to persist in our society. Male violence must become a matter of state, so preventing and putting an end to violence perpetrated against women is a priority and irrevocable objective of deep social silence. If we want to end macho violence, we must avoid the steps that begin with the references of a macho culture, especially among the younger population. The respect, freedom and equality are basic pillars that must impregnate our society, and so our regulatory framework must be taken into account. Organic Law 1/2004, of measures to protect against gender-based violence, and Law 11/2007, Galicia, for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence, have in their day obtained a general consensus of all political forces. These laws have marked one before and one after in the conception of what macho violence is, since they both recognize that we are faced with the most brutal symbol of inequality in society. Thus, we must move forward towards a legislative framework that recognises the violence perpetrated against women, in addition to couples' relationships, by visualizing normalized and socially naturalized aggressions. All measures are insufficient while a woman lives under the fear and lack of freedom that it means, and any balance will be negative while there is only one woman murdered for this reason. The current state of emergency that we live in our society with the crack of macho violence needs the firm commitment of all of us, moving together in the improvement of the strategies that must be followed. We'll put all the means in our hand to improve the attention of the victims, from protection to the availability of alternatives and the accompaniment in situations of emancipating transition. This year, the Italian Parliament approved Law 12/2016 of 22 July, amending Law 11/2007 of 27 July, Galicia, for the prevention and treatment of gender-based violence, and amending, inter alia, Article 39 of the Act, so that periodic assistance to victims of gender-based violence is set up as a procedure with an open application period throughout the year. We must continue to make progress in the complete eradication of violence against women through the articulation of more measures, more resources and more coordination. Let us maintain the spirit of unity and consensus, and advance together and together, by the hand of all society, towards a great covenant that unites us to end the violence of the macho." Thank you all very much. [[Applause]] [[Approved by consent.]] We opened the doors. Debate and vote on the non-financial expenditure limit of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017, in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u89	I'm good at explaining the procedure. The Council of Galicia, on 17 November 2016, agreed on the ceiling for non-financial expenditure of the budgets of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017, which is fixed at EUR 9.063 million and can be adjusted to vary the revenue of the financing system and the finalist funds incorporating the draft budget law of the General Government of the State, in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011, of 16 June, of budgetary discipline and financial sustainability, modified and forwarded to this House for approval, together with the Financial-fiscal Strategy Report referred to in Article 11.2 of that Act. Before we proceed to the vote, the Government therefore has a fifteen-minute round for its presentation, and then it will be granted a round for all parliamentary groups, for a period of ten minutes. The representative of the Government, the councillor of Fairy, Mr. Valeriano Martínez García, therefore begins for a period of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare today before Parliament to present the non-financial expenditure limit for the 2017 financial year, approved last Thursday by the Council of Galicia, in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. The first thing I would like to explain is that this is the first year, since in 2011 the German Government was the first autonomous executive to pass it by law, in which it is not brought to the House on the scheduled date. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for this delay is alien to the Council of Galicia and derives from the anomaly that I assumed I had in the state for almost ten months a government in functions that could not approve its own spending ceiling for 2017 by the political blockade that has remained in Spain for all this time. In fact, the central government's spending ceiling is still not approved today for the next exercise, but since the Galician Union, once it took possession of the Government after the September autonomous elections, we don't want to lose one more day. That's why we approved a prudent spending ceiling at the Board of Trustees, pending the approval of the roof by the state. In addition, as I shall soon detail, since the Government of Greece at no time have we been stopped for the last few months, with the objective that the Executive out of the polls could present the budget project for 2017 as soon as possible. I would also like to reiterate that, if we have this debate today, it was by the decision of the Government of Greece to bet on maximum transparency in preparing its annual accounts. Galicia is one of the few communities that, in addition to approving the Executive's spending ceiling, requests authorization from the Autonomic Chamber to do so. But before we often explained the framework of the financial scenario for 2017, I would like to remind you that two months ago we created a non-financial expenditure ceiling on an interim basis, but that it was essential that we should be able to accelerate the internal work of the Self-Government in the preparation of budgets; a work which, since the government is already appointed and with full functions, could be used to be able to approve this expenditure ceiling immediately and send it to Parliament. Precisely the stability of this government and the continuity of it is what allowed us, only three days after taking possession of the Executive, that we will take and approve in the Board of Trustees the spending ceiling; that is, one week after having the Government we are already discussing in this House the said text. The only difference this year from the previous is the condition of having held an autonomous election. As I made progress, this work started two months ago, when the Galego Institute of Statistics had updated the macroeconomic framework – as is normal every summer – after analyzing how the Greek economy was evolving. By then, and after knowing the official data of the second quarter, it confirmed the consolidation and recovery of the Greek economy. Autonomic GDP was already rising at an annual rate of 3%, the highest, by the way, since the beginning of 2008, and in the second quarter we were already growing at an inter-trimester rate of 0.8%. This circumstance motivated the decision of the German Government to raise the estimates we had collected in the current budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming budgets include a forecast of GDP growth of 2.5 and an 18.3 rate of unemployment, online with which we collected and established in the Galician Strategic Plan, but, with the majority found then, we raise the estimate of the Greek GDP to this year to 3%, 5 tenths above the target; and we never forget that this means 335 million euros more of wealth produced this year in Galicia. Well, in the last two months, this improvement has intensified and the IGE proposes to raise this forecast again to 3.1%, which the Government does. This review on the rise is based on a better evolution of the industrial sector and also of services, which will make the Greek economy more behavioural than Spanish in the last half of this year of 2016. We hope that this better evolution will be reflected in the official data on GDP developments, which will be published tomorrow by the Galego Institute of Statistics. In relation to the unemployment rate, we kept the discount pointed to in September, which left it this year at 17.4, almost a point less than the estimate we had made when we approved the budgets, and 2.3 points below the government estimate for the set of Spain. This improvement in forecasts is supported by three questions. First of all... – and not only on these three issues, but above all – in the best evolution of internal consumption, as they reflect each and every one of the main indicators of conjunction; in the good behavior of external demand, since exports are about to achieve a new historical record in 2016; and in the best and greatest increase in employment, with a growth forecast for 2016 of 1.9%, 2 tenths higher than expected. Ladies and gentlemen, the estimated expenditure ceiling in September was conditioned by two circumstances. On the one hand, for the public deficit objective adopted at the last Fiscal and Financial Policy Council in April already fixed at 0.5 % of GDP, but pending approval by the Council of Ministers and the Courts of Justice and which is not yet fully approved. The difference is that it is now announced and even ratified by the President of the Government himself. On the other hand, we had on account of the revenues of the funding system that the Government has to confirm to us. In this case, the difference is that we now have the certainty of the final settlement corresponding to the year 2015, which, as you know, will take effect in the year 2017. What we did in September, in order to make the most of our work, was to pass on to our technicians and economists of the various councils responsible for drawing up the budgets this estimated expenditure ceiling for 2017, which – I insist – was fundamental to being holding this debate in Parliament. So we planned a spending ceiling of €9,039 million, which meant an increase of 235 million on the current budget, that is, 2.7 % more. Ladies and gentlemen, two months later we can conclude that the calculations were very accurate, because the non-financial expenditure ceiling we approved last Thursday at the Board of Trustees is EUR 9.063 million, EUR 24 million higher than we initially had and we have been working with since September. Therefore, in 2017 the Government of Greece will have a spending capacity of almost 260 million euros above this exercise. In addition, this increased capacity for real expenditure will grow even more, given that the financial expenditure chapter will be reduced again. In 2017 this decrease in the payment of interest on debt will be about 40 million euros, as a result of the control that this autonomous executive maintains over debt. Of the 9,063 million I previously told them, 8,748 are non-financial incomes, 298 come from fulfilling the deficit target and 17 million are by adjustments in terms of national accounting. As far as non-financial revenues are concerned, the approach to the financing system almost amounts to 80% of these revenues. It must be borne in mind that we make these estimates of revenue at the expense of the final communication that will appear in the general budgets of the State. The magnitudes considered by the German Government for this roof are consistent with the consolidation of the improvement of macroeconomic variables. Thus, we estimate an increase in the delivery account of the estimated financing system for 2017 by 1.1 % above that set in the current budget, which means 74 million euros more. This estimate responds to positive developments in the IRPF, which recovers by absorbing the effects of tax reform and autonomic reductions, but also increases by 1.9%, in line with the evolution of the collection, which means the VAT, 36.2 million euros, favoured by the generation of jobs in 2016, which is consolidated in 2017. –I'm sorry, I was talking about the IRPF. With regard to the provision for the collection of VAT, the collection is rising forcefully, by 2.8%, 54 million more, reflecting, of course, the improvement of domestic consumption in our autonomous community. As for special taxes, they record a flat evolution, showing better behavior, except alcohol and electricity taxes. With regard to the funds of the financing system, we also make an on-line forecast of the past exercise, establishing resources, both from the Sufficient Fund and the Public Service Guarantee Fund, around EUR 1,780 million. The settlement to be included in 2017, corresponding, as previously mentioned, to payments of the financing system already settled in 2015, is experiencing an increase of EUR 5 million on the collection in the forthcoming budgets, obviously the result of a higher estimate than that of a year ago. By their side, the finalist transfers of other administrations — which, as you recall, basically come from the General Government of the State and, above all, from European funds — increase their participation in 5 tenths of non-financial income, to 12.3% of them. In relation to the non-financial own resources of the Autonomous Community, i.e. own taxes, taxes and prices and capital income, almost 10% of the total. Its evolution is shown to be stable, to a large extent because the evolution of the tax yields, especially of heritage transmissions and documented legal acts, and the tax on successions and prayers is thus being manifested. Thus, in total, non-financial revenues for next year add EUR 8.748 million, to which the EUR 298 million will have to be added, as a result of 0.5 % deficit, and add these 17 million in terms of national accounts that I was commenting on. With this — I repeat — the expenditure ceiling stands at EUR 9.063 million, 2.9 % higher than this year's budget. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been three years since the presentation of this expenditure ceiling is at a more favourable economic moment than the previous one. So at the time of presenting the spending ceiling in 2015, we'd already recover positive growth rates, although a weak growth -- a year ago we had an annual growth rate above 2% and now we're already growing at an annual rate above 3%. And the labour market is also recovering more and more intensively in our economy; in the last year, considering unemployment registered, in Galicia has dropped the number of unemployed by 10.4%, i.e. 23,152 unemployed less, downsizing the average state. As for EPA, Galicia today has 16,100 unemployed less than a year ago and 18,900 more busy. In terms of membership, the number of social security contributors has grown to over 20,000 in the last year, with uninterrupted inter-annual increases over the past two and a half years. By the way, we have more growth and more employment every year, but we can't less be satisfied. I insist that, despite this good evolution, the Greek Government is fully aware that there is still much work to be done, since there are still many people going through difficulties and there are still too many Greeks who want and cannot work. As we've been doing in recent years, since the Greek Government we've guaranteed the greatest effort to fight with all the tools we have at our disposal to strengthen economic recovery and reach all those people who need it. The greatest spending capacity in the Union will, as a matter of priority, be those who need it most. We'll also take advantage of this greater margin of resources for public employees to recover 100% of their extra wages from next year. They made a great solidarity effort during the worst moments of the crisis to allow some of their wages to guarantee public services, and now, which we have more resources, they will recover 100 percent of their wages. As for the forecasts for 2017, two months ago we estimated that the German GDP would grow by 2.3, including the foreseeable negative effect of Brexit. It was a very prudent estimate, and in fact we just reviewed upwards to 2.4, mainly for two reasons: the best behaviour of the Greek economy in the last quarter of 2016 and the forecast of improvement of the Spanish economy, an evolution of its internal demand that has a positive effect on the growth of Greek. As we said in September, we do not rule out any further improvement of this data, unless Brexit's negative effect is confirmed. Ladies and gentlemen, the macroeconomic scenario that we anticipate on the expenditure ceiling is based on a sustained increase in domestic demand and an increase in external demand. By 2017 the final consumption of non-profit homes and institutions will increase by 2.3 per cent, while spending on final consumption of public administrations will increase by 2%. By its band, crude capital formation will intensify its strong dynamism with a growth rate of 3.1%, three tenths more than the estimated for this exercise. So, investment in equipment will keep an expansive path...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u91	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u92	...favoured by the financial conditions and the need for companies to modernise their capital stock. The same is true of external demand, which we are at 0.3 points above what we estimate in 2016, with behavior — I tell you — very well influenced by our exports, which is expected to maintain and even increase its differential for the next year. And with regard to the unemployment rate, we still maintain 15.6% for next year, which will be about 2.2 points below the average of Spain. We will also continue, in this legislation, as in the past, by completing our fiscal consolidation agenda and by compatibility with expanding policies, the fruit of our greatest incomes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u93	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u94	I'll be done, Mr. President, for a minute. Of course, we're confirming and even overcoming all the estimates we had in our Strategic Plan. The effort we have made for so many years confirms that Galicia today brings its results, we continue to be a solvency community and a totally admired stability in the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u96	The situation is probably better...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u97	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u98	...there's a lot left to do, but we're going the right way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u99	Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. See you later, Mr. Feijó. Today, Counsellor, we've seen your bus session, it's good that they have self-esteem in good health, the problem is that that car doesn't serve to solve the problems that are still suffering thousands of people in our country. You said now at the end of your intervention that there are many Greeks who want to work; I don't know if you think there are Greeks and Greeks who are unemployed because they don't want to work; we don't share that opinion. In any case, you said that there are many Greeks and Greeks who want to work because they still can't, and that's true, and so do we. But there's another reality that you always forget when you talk about employment, economics, the country's situation: it's that today there's also a lot of Welsh people and Welsh people who work for many hours, and who aren't able to come by the end of the month, and this is a very serious situation that means from the point of view of inequality. In fact, Counselor, this is a growing figure, it doesn't come down, and to us it seems alarming that that Galician you say you admire all over the world and that you almost place us here in the stratosphere of the economic miracle because it's a Galician where one in four homes has to live with less than 1,000 euros a month. I don't know if you're able to imagine and think what it means to live several people in a house with less than 1,000 euros a month. The truth is it's a spectacular precariousness for thousands of people in our country. And the serious thing is that all the economic philosophy of your budgets and this expenditure ceiling consolidates this situation, and I announce — I know you won't be surprised — that the BNG will not support the expenditure ceiling that you bring to the debate today. And we do it by coherence with Galicia, by commitment to social rights, and above all because it is essential to be able to change a policy that is not being useful in order for the living conditions of the Greeks and the Greeks to really improve, and clearly the ceiling of expenditure is the instrument that you invented in order to be able to carry forward an austere policy, but a policy that also seeks our own self-government that we should have in our country. You know that this spending ceiling and that these budgets do not draw or anticipate those expansive budgets of what Mr. Feijóo told us today, that he also spoke to us today, and that rather these budgets are a limit to being able to put a stop to social cuts and make a model change, because it is clearly necessary for us in Galicia to make a strategic commitment for innovation, for the creation of quality employment, for a new model that sets out for the sustainability and care of our environment and clearly ends social cuts. Because there's a question that they can't answer. The President of the Union has not done so — absent today in this important debate — and I do not know if you will be able to do so. Tell us: the crisis is over, why are there cuts? Yeah, yeah, don't laugh. If the crisis's over, just like you tell us, why are there cuts? You've justified all the social policy cuts to adjust the belt in the middle of a crisis. Tell us, Counselor, why this is happening. Look, you're sending a spending ceiling of €9,063 million, which, in fact, if you compare it to the spending ceiling that the People's Party approved here last year, means an increase in spending capacity of €1900 million, if you compare spending ceiling with expenditure ceilings — not the expenditure ceiling with the budget that you finally approved, because they're twisting reality -- This means that the increase is 2.1 % relative to the spending capacity approved by this budget. We see, therefore, that this great expansion is not such, and we also know -- because so you published it -- that there is a part of that increase that has a destiny that we agree with, that the workers and public administration workers are getting their extra pay back; it's said that it's 185 million euros. So this expansional capacity, when you tell us there's going to be a lot more growth capacity, is really much reduced to that -- if they -- they're going to expand the improvement, the ability of the public administration's workers and workers, but there are other issues that have to do with health, education, innovation, environmental care policies, social cuts, where you're clearly not going to be able to act. And look, this is very serious for a country like Galicia, not only in terms of job creation -- then we'll touch this issue -- but for something that is very important to us, because this budget means consolidating social cuts. And in view of the propaganda they told us there were no cuts, that here we shielded social services, the truth is that for these eight years that wasn't the reality. See, at the Education Council since 2009 you have cut more than 1,152 million euros for social spending. At the Education Council, there's a cut since 2009 that's been around 10%, 9.13%, but it's had results, because nothing happened because you cut this in education. We have 4,000 pupils and students who can't study the training cycle of vocational training they want, 3,000 families who don't have a place in education for 0-3 years, or there are at universities in our country -- we do -- less than 5,000 universities in the Greek public system. From the point of view of what that means for a society, it's a worrying fact. In health care you have also made a major cut, around 7% since 2009, and this has also led to consequences, because there are larger waiting lists, we have 1,800 professionals less in the public health system. So you can't tell us that your cuts didn't have an impact on health. Or we also have the dependency system. In 2015, there's still, Counselor, nearly 24,000 people who are waiting for a Dependency Law who have the right to it and who are not seeing anything at all. Women are still the ones who cover the gaps in the lack of commitment to policies that should also be guaranteed because there are laws that support them. But this framework and this, therefore, puts us on the table again, from a social point of view, of what this model means, but also the fact that we have here this debate puts on the table other issues that are relevant. First, we have a model of funding clearly insufficient to meet the needs of the people of Greece, and it's really not because we pay no more taxes, but because the central state distributes these taxes in an unfair way. Just like for us, it's unfair how the deficit reduction is distributed, because you know that the central government is 51.7% of the deficit capacity, while we're simply allowed to incur 17% of the total state-set deficit. And that's unfair, because, besides, you know -- certainly much better than I do -- that social spending means 25% of the total expenditure, and this is what you're assuming is that the cuts that break into social spending and infringe in an unfair way to our country. In practice, what we're seeing is how during the crisis not only a cut in social spending was made, but also a cut in real capacity of what self-government means. We always thought that the German self-government was a very limited self-government, but it's just that now you're already unique and exclusively managers of the decisions adopted by the Montoro Government, and unfortunately we had a Greek government that was always very obedient to all that the Central Government wanted and had no ability to defend that there had to be a different distribution without questioning this kind of frame. And one last question — because time goes very fast — has to do with employment. The relevant are not the overall rates, the relevant in our country is that you really create net jobs. You know that part of the reduction in unemployment rates doesn't have to do with improving the situation, because a very important part has to do with the emigration that occurs in Galicia and with a lot of people who disappear from the active population rate. That's what they say in the reports, it's collected and it's a very serious and very serious subject. I don't think it's a subject to be taken as a joke. So do you think that the estimate they make in relation to growth is going to create a net job in our country? Because that's the key for Mr. Núñez Feijóo's word not to remain simply because in another frustrated announcement that repeats us year after year, legislation after law, and the only thing we see growing up in this country is poverty, inequality and people who have to walk away because of lack of opportunity. Therefore, the Galician Nationalist Block will vote against this ceiling for coherence, because it means consolidating more cuts and because we really have a government that has no intention of moving anything and that is in an immobilisation and a triumphalism where it seems that its model is that of inequality, precariousness and emigration. That's not the BNG model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, I would like to address three different issues in these ten minutes — which I am sure the President will be generous, just as he has done with you — in relation to the proposal for a ceiling and the financial report itself accompanying him. The first question is a conceptual question. In fact, the spending ceiling is a budget figure, a government expenditure control figure. I'd rather talk about the income floor. I believe it is important to define what a society is willing to collect in political terms to know what it is willing and what it can spend on solving the problems of the administration. It seems to me to be the central element, of what you have talked about in part and of what President Feijóo did in his investment debate. Finally, they continue to say that lower taxes is possible in this context, generally. It doesn't tell me the story that lowering taxes was left-handed, I know, they've been repeated here many times, but I say what I say other times: lowering taxes means cutting somewhere. Because from the neoliberal mantra that lower taxes reactivates economic activity, job creation and therefore increases the collection, it is empirically contradicting that it is false. So that's an important issue, and there's room for action. Yes, man! there are empirical studies; of course, among empirical studies there is always some counterfactual, there is always one in which, indeed, it does not happen that way, but the fact is that tax cuts have led to more impoverished and more dual societies. That — I, as far as I can go — is so. And we have areas: high incomes, wealth, successions — of course if you can modulate in terms of progressiveity, we're not in a technical discussion about that -- commercial areas, environmental taxes, a topic that introduced the general secretary of a class union the other day, which is the technological tax. Even yesterday a spokesperson from the People's Party spoke about the financial system, that, in fact, how would workers be put on the streets if now everyone made electronic banking and there were cashiers? So let's see: if staff spending decreases, companies' income and profits are increasing significantly and perhaps you can open up the possibility of recording it; I don't say that it has to be done, I'm not talking about who the competition is; I'm saying that we have to think, as a society, if we are able to increase public revenues to shield public services. And, unfortunately, you didn't tell us much about this. The second question, within this first question, is another issue. The public finances of Galicia have been a huge advertising and propaganda exercise since 2009 with quantitative results that I do not discuss, eh! —I insist — but a huge exercise of advertising and propaganda for Mr Feijóo. The image of a good manager, advertised and promoted in Galicia, and especially on that Ritz-Palace axis in Madrid, for breakfast — fortunately is only 200 metres away, because, if not, the transfer was ungovernable — leads to the fact that we are out of the need to stay at the edge of the Autonomic Liquidity Fund. But what happens? That, in the end, seeing the dramatic situations in financial terms of many autonomous communities, because the Autonomic Liquidity Fund has expanded without a date, conditionality has not been exercised, financed all the expenditure incurred by autonomous communities, including the unauthorized deficit, and made it zero cost. By the way, a good deal of the financial downturn is from the Galician board, a great part of the management of its council, I'm sure, and another part is the score of the European Central Bank, virtually unlimited, the zero type. We're gonna put on some medals that we're supposed to have, aren't we? Okay. Well, we'll discuss this, Counselor. I'm sorry you don't have a replica shift, I'm sure Mr. Puy will gladly take the paper. I'd like to know -- and I've been asking for some time -- how much it costs us to be out of the FLA. And don't tell me that, in terms of independence, it gives us a status that I don't know very well what. How much does it cost us in economic terms? And then, Counsellor, do you think you can come here to talk about the spending ceiling of an autonomous community, of a European Union country, for 2017, and dedicate three tenths of a second to what is happening in the United States, Brexit, of what are the uncertainties of the German financial system, of what is the European economic system at this time? If you think it's possible to do so, then perhaps, at last, you're right. I honestly don't think so. Another question, too. I'd like to know what political valuation you make of these EUR 5.500 million that the Government of Spain will have to adjust for Brussels tax. I'd like to know what political valuation makes you the absolute disappearance of the Spanish State and the Spanish autonomous communities, of the economic reactivation plan known as Plan Juncker, now that the listing is already on the European Union website. And, of course, at last, I think a lot of things are missing. You said this same Sunday, "There's room to keep taxing, but with caution." I want to know, Counsellor, when you talk about lowering taxes, what expenses are available or what expenses do you want to cut? Of course, of course, of course, I want to know what expenses you want to cut. This would be the first block. The second, in relation to the economic and financial report you presented to the opposition group. He spoke of the voice of the Nationalist Block Galego: "It is necessary to fight politically for increasing the maximum deficit of the autonomous communities." You never did; you did not; you did not, did not do it to your predecessor, nor to your predecessor; none. I mean, the fact that Madrid gave was like a sort of Kantian categorical imperative, and there in that iron belt we moved, fell who fell, fell who fell, Counselor. And here we are to talk about politics, and I want to know if you disciplinely accept a division of the manifestly unfair deficit between the three administrative establishments in this country, because they pass through here, that doesn't seem to go with you. By 2017 it's 0.5%, it's 0.3%, it's going to increase, because reality is required, because it's impossible to provide public services with a minimum quality with these restrictions. So in the macroeconomic scenario, I don't very well agree with the figures of different variables of GDP with GDP itself. Final consumption of public administrations, down from 2.7% to 0.7%, a significant drop, yes, in the Spanish set. And then you think that this has nothing to do with what's going on in Spain, nothing, right? We're in an isolated ecosystem, a bubble where it has nothing to do with it. By the way, in Galicia in 2016, public administrations actually increased consumption by 3.7%. You know why? Did it have anything to do with the autonomous elections this year? No, right? It has nothing to do with the electoral cycle. Gross capital formation in Galicia, 2.4, the lowest in the series presented — I insist — in this report. Within this you were speaking... yes, Counselor, hey!, I understand that you'd look strange, but, except that you had given us some data called — which you might be — so it's, in fact, 2.4, the lowest in the series, page 23, in case you have any doubts. The manufacturing industry, the lowest in the series, on the next page, I think, exactly on the 25. What are you talking about when you talk about industrial dynamism and the growth of the service sector? Does it really talk about growth data with a minimal capacity to generate wealth? Then the data, unfortunately, is what they are. He said one thing — yes — that took the floor to Mr. President of Galicia, that's where you're right. With the latest official data available, Galicia grows only Spain. The latest official international data are from the second quarter of 2016: 2015, Spain, 3.4%; Galicia, 3%. And -- that I know -- 3.4 is more than 3. I hope the morning, exactly, but I don't have the data tomorrow, that I'm not advisor to Fairy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In any case, Mr. President said it fifteen days ago, and, at least, it would be good to work with published data, not filtered interestedly. I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow; today, Spain 3.4; Galicia, 3. Then, on the subject of tax revenue, here too. Non-financial own resources fall only EUR 13 million. This can be two things: either that promise of a tax drop... Home!, Counselor, pages 37 and 38, don't shake your head, it makes you feel like I'm inventing it, but that's why I went back to the precinct to look for the report, because, as I already know the strategy, but -- I insist -- unless there are two versions, it's here. Thirteen million euros decrease. It means that or in some taxes collection will increase in a way that GDP evolution does not explain, or I don't understand it, or all that the tax president told us about, because it's slightly, at last -- let's say -- discursive. And then, what does that mean, Counselor? And we're going to the last block, which I know I'm out of time. Bernard Henry-Lévy said politics is the art of repair, and there's a lot to be noticed, Counselor. I'm going to tell you just one thing that needs to be repaired in this country. Data from households with no income, inter-annual, from the last EPA, third quarter of 2016, in relation to the third quarter of 2015: an increase of 17%. I repeat, because I know it's hard to hear it: households without any kind of income — I don't speak of all members unemployed, etc., etc. — homes without any kind of income, i.e. those who live directly from charity, or family or family support... at last. A 17% increase, and as you look at me face-to-face, I give you the data.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u103	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u104	From 29,700 in the third quarter of 2015 to 34,800 in the third quarter of 2016, an increase of 17%. Counsellor, politics is the art of repair, and the only thing that repairs these spending ceilings and these public accounting lessons is Mr. Feijó's image as manager. The Socialist Group will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. Losada. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We will actually focus the debate on the expenditure ceiling and not on the whole of the budgetary data, for which there will be time. It seems to us, first of all, as preliminary considerations, that, indeed, the speech that is coming here today is not completely up-to-date. We have the forecasts of yesterday's Montoro, of which nothing has been said since the Government, that reduction of spending ceiling at the state level of 5,000 million euros as it may affect us. The international setting, Trump's victory, and Brexit is also obvious, the uncertainty within the European Union. It remains unknown, therefore, that full reference to expenditure, a series of uncertainties, a series of topical issues, who come to present the accounts and proposals for the ceiling of expenditure to make those accounts, should be taken into account. So by not doing them, we understand that it's still a little wet paper already from the very first moment on this proposal for a roof of expenditure. In any case, we understand that there is a failure here, once again, one more year, of compulsive austerity, which has led us to the most debt, less growth and more destruction of employment. The law is 2011, it's already six years old, and therefore we walk almost to the seventh year of budgeting under its supervision. Then we must remember what the objectives of this law were and see if they were met, to see from there whether we have a good way or a bad way done. Article 17 of this law says that one of the specific functions is that autonomous public debt will maintain a prudent level of evolution, a prudent level and a stable evolution. Yes, yes, that's what Article 17: prudent level and stable evolution says. Well, since the vigil of this law, we have an increase of 73% in that debt; 73%, which we should add to the hidden debt, which is not computed here, which does not count, but it says, is that of public-private collaboration both in the Álvaro Cunqueiro hospital and in the construction of highways and fast roads, which also assume a covert debt, something that we have to stop. So this first balance sheet disqualifies within itself the government's intended budgetary discipline in the application of this law over the last six years. So despite the cuts in spending, despite the denial of medication, the removal of textbooks, the denial of dependence on those who need it, even causing social pain, the objectives marked by law have not been achieved. So it's a failed law, and you guys, failed applying a neoliberal dogma. Why so much pain? To cut down and come back one more year to present some accounts that then don't fit? Hard cuts, which, given the competitive distribution, also focused on social benefits, essential public services and sectoral policies that you do not carry out. Besides, this has had another negative effect, which is the decline in the economy. We have less growth. The backlog of GDP in the five-year period 2012-2015 for Galicia was 3.1%, while for the average state it was 0.8%. We have lost 1,800 million euros in real terms as a result of that application — that is, yes — of its budgetary discipline. A reduction in addition to the per capita GDP that makes us, compared to the rest of the state, the poorest. And in addition, it has brought another obvious consequence, which was the destruction of employment, the existence of less employment in our country. With EPA data from 2010 to 2016, employment developments have resulted in a decrease in employment for Galicia of 5.8% and for the State as a whole of 1.6%. So the destruction of employment tripled in Galicia that of the state as a whole. Something you'll have to see about your budgetary discipline policies, don't you think? In addition, if we do a comparative analysis of the impact of public spending on economic growth, it will also serve to quantify its own failure. In 2014, for example, in Galicia public expenditure decreased by 1.2% and GDP increased by 0.4%; in the average state public expenditure decreased by 0.3 and increased by 1.4. So the biggest increase in public spending is a greater increase in the economy. But it's just that you don't practice economy, you practice ideology, you practice ideology that's better based on ideological prejudices, on neoliberal dogmas, not only not only not proven, but that, with this data, we're showing that you're absolutely failing in relation to which were the objectives that you nominally said to serve. That expansive austerity that led to a contraction of expenditure and that this contraction of expenditure could stimulate the economy proved false. And besides, you only intervene in the most neo-conservative way, in the most reactionary way, which is to limit spending without establishing either a possible alternative or complementary way, at least that would be to increase income and establish a minimum income, a single income that could come, for example, from a greater involvement in the fight against fraud — and therefore also achieve a greater collection there — and also taxes on the income of capital, taxes on large fortunes, taxes on people who have the most. Because here what is social equalizer, what creates equal opportunities, is not the reduction of taxes or the abolition of taxes for everyone, but the capacity, the generation of wealth and the collection based on economic capacity. They were reminded yesterday of my companion, Anton Sánchez, a principle of tax capacity, article 31 of the Constitution; it is an unfair system and also inefficient. They're not practicing economy, they're practicing ideology, and they don't care what the result of economic application is. Because what they did was solely the liquidation of a social model, with the excuse of economic adjustment. We have a diabolical trident against the people and in favour of the great capital, constituted by the establishment of limits to the public deficit, the reforms of article 135 of the Constitution and also of that third leg of the expenditure ceiling. We've been with this for seven years, and therefore it's no longer a theoretical debate, it's a practical debate, we know what the results are, and we know that these results have only served to prolong the recession until we make it the longest in our history. They had simply, yes, the great success of dismantling public services and causing a huge social fracture. It's not economic, it's ideology. There's no cost problem, there's an income problem. There is no problem of over-dimension of the social state, there is a state of ill-funded well-being. That's what there is. We don't have a problem that we spend a lot, it's a problem that we don't get into where we have to go. We could fight fraud, we could tax capital incomes, big fortunes, but you'd rather not. This is the logic of Law 2/2011, a procyclical law in recession and anticyclical law in growth; that is, when the economy contracts, you also hire the expense, but when it expands it also costs. In such a way that we find ourselves now, that we recover the wealth levels of the year 2009 and, however, we have 25% less social expenditure. A profit, yes, a third of an average. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And in some cases, such as housing policy, they have applied a reduction of 87%, which is enough, taking into account the rate of evictions that continues to exist in our country today. The reduction, in addition to all this, of the weight of public spending, of the weight in national wealth is evident. In 2008, 20% of GDP; in 2016, 14 and a half; in 2017, with its forecasts, 14%. That's all they care about: reducing the public's weight in the economy as a whole. They act for ideology, not economics. We say "no" to the spending ceiling and we have an alternative proposal. We say "no" to the spending ceiling, not to that spending ceiling that you propose, we see the failure of a law, and, in addition, with an additional question. They are announcing an increase of EUR 259 million here, hiding, in addition, that it is intended to pay the deficit mostly; it does not affect rights, services or the productive economy. There's a greater need to finance debt, and then that's what you're devoting to most of that little expenditure ceiling. In addition, there is a question that does not fail to draw attention — not to say that it does not cease to be offensive to anyone approaching this debate — which is that in 2016 you, with a given nominal GDP forecast, have increased the ceiling by 438 million euros, equivalent to 5.2 % in relation to 2015, and now in 2017, with a forecast for a larger increase in nominal GDP, it turns out that only 2.9%, i.e. 259 million — will come here to explain it, if you want - Article 12 of Law 2/2001 provides that the rate of valuation of nominal GDP may be increased to the maximum. If we have Article 28 of the report, we have that the nominal GDP valuation rate of 2017 is higher than 2016. However, the spending ceiling in 2016 was practically twice as much as it will be this year. How do you explain that? Well, it explains clearly, it explains electorally. This year's election campaign 2016 has made this year's spending more expensive, increasing it above what its policy of applying this rule was, and here nothing happened. Because the Montoro himself, with his scissors, didn't call them attention either nor did he take them out of their ears, they could do it, they could do it because it was an election year. Well, here we have to recognize, of course, that this crack strategy with the rule that limited the spending ceiling and increased it by 5.2% was successful; election success is in sight, right? But also another success, because 3.7% at an annual rate at which public spending is growing is one of the reasons why GDP in Galicia grows at rates similar to those in the rest of the state. Therefore, you have demonstrated your own falsity of expansive austerity, because its increase in electoral spending has become one of the growth factors of GDP.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u108	Well, they won't believe -- if, two minutes -- what we're going to tell them, but we're going to make a recommendation: we recommend that they persevere in that expansion policy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What they did in 2016, thinking about elections, doing in 2017 thinking about citizenship, do it! You dare defy the central government! They dare to defend a growth in social spending and in the productive economy that is good for the country as a whole! The government—you—started the legislative process with calls to reach agreements for the sake of the country. Well, we offer them a first deal, an agreement of great transcendence: increase the expenditure ceiling for 2017 to 750 million euros. At Marea you offer a great deal of agreement: increase the spending ceiling by 750 million euros. We have reached that agreement and we will vote for it. This agreement is possible and it is also necessary, it is possible. If we take the forecasts, if in 2016 the spending ceiling has grown to 438 million euros, in 2017, with a nominal GDP rating forecast of 3.6, why can't it be increased to 750? It is enough — and I want to make it easy — to use the arguments and methodologies developed on pages 126 and 127 of the 2016 financial and financial report...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u110	...to defend him; easier impossible. They increase the spending ceiling in 750 million euros to secure social rights and stimulate the economy and will have our support. But this is not possible. Besides, it's necessary. It is necessary to finance a number of emergency programmes and proposals that are used to address social needs. We offer this covenant to them so that they can carry out a social income, we offer them this pact to be able to fight energy poverty and we offer them this pact to be able to fight against rejections, to be able to make a new employment policy, so that new people come back and also to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u111	Thank you, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u112	Yes, I'm going to finish, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u113	No, stop it now, please. Look at the weather.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u114	I'm done. We also want them to modify the medium-term spending strategy. It's unacceptable, at this rate, the recovery of expenditure, we wouldn't be in ten years for the recovery of expenditure. And we know it's not a wealth generation problem; we're at the wealth levels of 2009 and we have a lower expenditure of 25%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u115	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u116	If they accept our pact, we will vote yes, and if we do not, we will vote no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u119	Thank you. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. I want to begin by congratulating the socierge of the Fairy: in three days, since his appointment and confirmation as the socierge of the Fairy, he brought to this House a roof of expense. And do so, in addition, with a clear objective, which is not to paralyze the Greek economy. And we know, from Spain's experience, what I expected to have a government in function for more than a year, the paralysis of investment projects and the consequent performance of companies adjusting to that uncertainty by reducing activity, investment and therefore employment. These are some of the advantages, certainly, of political stability, and in this case also of continuity in front of the same person's council, which, in any case, had already left the duties done with a forecast of spending ceilings even before the elections. Well, we are discussing the expenditure ceiling, which is indeed a debate prior to the budget debate, in the budget debate we will see what we are spending on, and now what we are talking about is the top of what we are spending on next year. This has to do with the income forecast. In this case, there is an income forecast that it does to predict deliveries to the state account as well as the positive liquidations of the 2015 fiscal year, of course, taking into account the forecast of the collection of own taxes or managed by the Board, and it also takes into account a forecast of the 0.5% deficit, which precisely, although we are in a stage of economic growth that confirms in some way that we need to strengthen the exit of the crisis, and therefore it corresponds, even though it is an anticyclical policy throughout the cycle even when the GDP cycle itself is growing. And, therefore, we understand that we are performing an important function, at the same time as limiting debt. I'm delighted with the subject of obeisance that you keep talking about obeisance. They say that the German law failed to comply with its effects because disobedience was unwise. Well, first of all, from Keynesian logic — as we know — we have to be indebted when there is an economic crisis; there has been economic crisis and we have been indebted. In fact, the criticism we had from the left — basically from the breakaway left — was that we gave ourselves little debt, and every year they asked us for more debt; and now it turns out that we are very indebted. The reality — the data, not the literature — is that Galicia became indebted between 2009 and 2015 an average annual of 18.9%; the average of the autonomous communities, 30.4%; and some reached 51%, 44% and 33% in the case of Asturias. Therefore, indeed, the law has complied — because we have complied with the law, which has not done other autonomous communities — with reasonable indebtedness. In fact, you take the variable that they take: GDP debt, Galicia is 5.3 points below; if you want to take the ratio per person, the ratio by whatever you want, whatever it is, we've reduced in relation to the rest of Spain the average debt ratio. Which, by the way, was not the case when we arrived at the Government; we arrived at the Government after a very strong expansive cycle and Galicia was above the average indebtedness of autonomous communities. There's a lot of inaccuracies inside, and here the facts are that they deny literature. It has been said, for example, that the economy is not good and that the law itself failed because GDP in Galicia has evolved worse than in Spain. I would like to recall that in 2007 the gross domestic product in purchasing power parities of Galicia was 78.4% over the average 100, European Union 15; Spain was 91.4. In 2015 it is 73.4 in Galicia, 83.7 in Spain. This means that with regard to 2007 in Galicia, it has decreased by 5% — that is the specific crisis we had in Spain — with regard to the Community average of purchasing parity, GDP in purchasing power parity. However, in Spain it decreased by 7,7; in 2008 with respect to the year 2008 it fell by 6,2; in Spain by 7,3. Therefore, it is not true that in terms of per capita GDP in Galicia, as a result of alleged austerity policies, GDP had grown less per capita in purchasing power parities — which is as it is measured — in relation to the average of Spain. They say we're talking ideology. I want to give you a data, because again the data deny the literature. They're talking about us being neoliberal here. I'm going to say: cash expenditure, budgeted board, last known year 2015: 16.61% of Galicia's gross domestic product. Date of 2008 closed, last left ruling in Galicia: 16.61%. Well, what can we conclude from this? Well, obviously, that if we're neoliberal, the Block and the PSOE are enormously neoliberal too. Or maybe most likely we're not neoliberal, fortunately, because I'm not neoliberal and the People's Party is a reformist and liberal party and it's not neoliberal. And that's exactly why we're rebuilding the state of well-being that the crisis has led forward. [[Applause]] Obviously, when we talk about raising public spending this year by 300 million — I will now go about it — we are talking about growth over the previous year, which actually gives us 750 million euros. There's a difference between these 750 million euros coming into the expenditure ceiling, and in the budgets you'll see where they come from. Dealing with you and me here that we're going up 750 million euros of spending without saying anything about where they come from, so, man, it's okay. We can deal with 2,000, because you've already set up it's better to do even more, or 3,000. A little serious about these pacts that are offered, because, really, coming here saying you have to spend 750 million euros more is a little bit more. Well, the breakdown of deficit was criticized. This year, autonomous communities are facing a lower deficit reduction than the central government deficit. It is clear that we are going to have a spending capacity this year, according to the expenditure ceiling, of 259 million euros, to which we must add the EUR 40 or 50 million in the interest of debt. That gives us, about, therefore, a rise of 300 million euros. This means that the Union will spend on society, on the economy, on social services... exactly a percentage of 3.4%. Well, I'm going to praise Mr. Losada for being vigilant, I'm going to praise the financial management in the Vigo Town Hall. It started well, it inherited good public finances in Vigo do Goberno de Corina Porro, the last of the People's Party, and the Socialist Party did a good economic management. The Vigo Town Hall is a well-managed municipality from the point of view of financial stability. Well, yesterday they presented the budgets and the baker responsible for the matter said that the growth in Vigo was 3.1 % of the expenditure, that Vigo was going as a formula 1. Well, I won't say Galicia goes faster than a formula 1, or as formula 1 better than what Fernando Alonso brings into Vigo; I won't say that, of course. But obviously, if public spending grows by 3.4% and in a municipality it's said that Vigo is going as a formula 1, because we're going to be more prudent, we're going as a monovolum. Why? Because if a dune from Brexit comes, and so on, we want to have traction on the four wheels to overcome it, as we did in the past. I want to say with this that it's an expansive budget, that we think they're good for Galicia and that we're therefore going to support them. In addition, we will support some of the decisions that are being made in relation to this expansion of expenditure around EUR 300 million. First, return public salaries. It was said here that wages are falling. Certainly, wages are falling; it is a consequence of the crisis and also a consequence of the causes that brought us the wage crisis that grew far above what they were growing in the middle of the OECD, for example. But the fact is that in the public sector we have to set an example, and therefore the return of public salaries to the pre-crisis situation seems to us to be a symptom of exemplaryness. First, to fulfil this Government's commitment, but secondly, to be exemplary towards the whole civil society. With this extra money, we will continue to strengthen a healthy productive economy — as was said in investment — and support employment, and particularly quality employment — as was done and announced at the autonomous rate — and contributing to the improvement of society, social spending. Social expenditure was criticized here. We've gone from 14,000 dependents to 50,000. Dependent expenditure increased from EUR 126 million in the last left-wing budget to EUR 324 in the last Government of the People's Party; Risga increased from EUR 66 million to EUR 97 million and, logically, with these additional incomes we will continue to support social spending, maintaining the lowest university rates throughout Spain, maintaining the best teacher/student ratio throughout Spain, and thus we will continue to deny with facts what you say, as it does in the sun, that everything here is deteriorating. In any case, we'll see each other in the budgets. We'll see where the 750 million euros come from that Mr. Villares finds it very easily and offers us as a pact, and we'll see if we can finally agree on that matter. We are happy and we congratulate the Council on the cost ceiling that brings us; it reflects the evolution of the economic situation. It's not the ideal but, of course, it's better than it was a few years ago. And in addition, with this type of increase in expenditure, without losing sight, we can better address the challenges of the country, the real ones: globalization, exports to a more globalized market, the effects of technification on the productive system, which replaces manual work and, therefore, steers training towards the new world of technologies in all areas, from automotive to banking, and consolidates a state of sustainable well-being. The public sector is responsible for helping and helping to lay the foundations for that to be possible, and we understand that this expenditure ceiling is a proper first step in that purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u121	Thank you, Mr. Puy. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote on the non-financial ceiling of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017. We vote. Vote of the ceiling on non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, in accordance with Article 12 of Law 2/2011 of 16 June 2011 on budgetary discipline and financial sustainability. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 41; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. The ceiling for non-financial expenditure of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2017 is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u122	We're still on the agenda. We move on to the third point of the agenda, which corresponds to interpelerations. D. Antón Sánchez García and 13 other members of the G.P. in Marea, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to social exclusion and poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u123	Mr. Villares has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u124	Good morning again. We wanted to make our first plenary meeting, as a group in En Marea, a public presentation at the parliamentary headquarters of which were our priorities at the level of political strategy, at the level of parliamentary strategy, of what we saw as priorities in the defence of a national project for Galicia based on democracy and social justice. Specifically, in the field of social justice, we understood that there were several aspects that had to be considered from the very first moment, both the economic and employment aspects, the aspects of education, the social services... and, of course, everything that lies under all this, which is the concern of the common people, the concern of the majority of society, many of which have gone through bad times, bad times, bad years during a crisis that has not caused and therefore it is necessary to pay special attention at the parliamentary level. That's why we want In Marea today to give, within its first appeal to the Government, the role played by people who have gone through the worst and who are going through the worst crisis that you're facing because of death, who end up in the Obreiro, but who are still perceived by a lot of people. Because the recession could happen but the social crisis, the economic crisis and the crisis in which many people find themselves, it hasn't happened yet. It didn't happen, and we have a lot of data that refer to this, some of them presented in official offices. We remember that, less than a month ago, in the People's Valley, the report was presented in relation to the poverty of the year 2015/16 and there we found data that were truly shuddering and that, of course, they account for an absolutely different reality, absolutely different from what is intended to be sold from this lecture by the People's Party. Some data we welcome to come here now to bring the concern and ask the Government for it in relation to poverty. The main enunciation is that "one out of four Greeks and Greeks is at risk of poverty or social exclusion", according to data for 2015. And they're not data from En Marea, they're data from the organizations that work in the fight against poverty, and also from the additional concern that we're at a time of rising to the height of this indicator. In Galicia, according to this report, The state of poverty in Galicia of 2016 — which they will know and which has been presented in public institutions, and which we want to do to not bring our own data but data from whom you are working explicitly on this — the results are alarming: 702,000 people, 25% of Galician population, Malvivian in 2015 or either in poverty or at risk of social exclusion, which are different categories but both must be treated in a special way by the public authorities. This consists, nothing more and nothing less than 106,000 people in the previous year. A special concern, above all, when we have, from the public domain, who is managing the public domain — the People's Party, with its renewed absolute majority — claiming to make us believe that we do leave the crisis, with 106,000 more at risk of social exclusion or poverty than in the previous year. But it's just that, in addition, the worst are going through. It's not that they're mere indicators of evolution, but that the people who hit the most the crisis, because they were people who were most unprotected, it's now the ones who are most suffering from those consequences. And they are suffering because the cuts in social spending, the cuts in social rights, directly affected those who depended on public solidarity, those social rights, in order to be able to get out ahead; so the indicators now offer a negative evolution and make the worst of it now the people who are feeling the most: people in severe poverty, in severe material poverty, already reach 4% of the population of Galicia, 4.8%, 132,000 men and women; in 2014 they were 3.5%, with a difference, therefore, of 38,000 more in a year. Have a job... how are you? We have the children and children here in Parliament watching a debate. [[Mr. Villares Naveira greets the boys and girls who enter full]] We are in a debate that affects all of us, which affects you, too. We're talking about poverty and people who live better and people who live worse, people who have at home and people who don't have at home, people who have to go to school and people who don't, people who have work and people who don't. We're talking about it now, and that goes for you too, that you're the future. Having a job, unfortunately, today, is no longer a guarantee of leaving poverty. We're on a decreasing stage of work and of workers and workers of poor workers, people who work and don't give them to get out of poor work. It improves what is called the low labour intensity of the German homes, 13.8% of the population in 2015, when the previous year was 14.9%. But it's good news incomplete because many of the new jobs that are created are precarious or low-quality. It was another consequence of the crisis, which was associated with poverty, precarious employment. The precariousness of working conditions makes it safer for us to work and we can't plan our lives decently and dignifiedly because we don't know what's left of that job. A poverty and exclusion that especially affects our youth, young people, with a 37% index. And it's also about child poverty, and it's unfair to talk about child poverty. Now you're here children and children listening to us, it's unfair to talk about child poverty, because there are no poor children and children in wealthy families, children and poor children live in poor families. And that's something that we all have to take into account when we talk about partial data or if we intend to make a complete data. If it is intended to draw attention that, often, the families where there are children and children and young citizens are the ones who are going through the worst, comparatively, in relation to other family units, and that must be taken into account. For the first time it increases, in addition to our biggest. Our grandparents, the people who worked so hard all their lives to give us the best, also impoverish their quality of life. 62.9% of the pensions in Greece — the highest rate in the state — are below the poverty line, 80% if we talk about widow's pensions. The neoliberal economic model designed by the People's Party exacerbates inequalities despite increasing GDP and also increases inequality. Let's say it first, let's repeat it: the same level of wealth, 25% less spending; hence 25% less rights; therefore, 25% less opportunity from the public and taking letters in the matter. In Galicia, where pensions during the time of the crisis have amortized and made up the impoverishment of the population of Galicia — because they are kept constant as the rest of the incomes fell — once GDP has grown, instead, the inequality of the ageing demographic structure and the ceiling on which Galicia is pensioned greatly below the state average. In this state of affairs, one might wonder if we are doing the right thing, if the children and children, if the girls and the boys who come to see us today can have the security and tranquillity that the Government is doing everything possible to get people out of the social exclusion or poverty in which it lives. We have the doubt that this is the case, so we're here criticizing the government's policy, and that's why we're asking the government to answer these questions: What assessment does the Galician Union make of the evolution of social exclusion and poverty data in the country? Do you believe that policies carried out during the years of the crisis increase inequality and poverty in the light of data? What are the measures at the level of pensions, wages, housing and employment that they have planned to develop to reduce the emergency situation in thousands of Greeks and Greeks, bearing in mind that during the years of the crisis — since you arrived — a third of the social expenditure has been reduced in relation to how it was before you arrived? And finally, they consider that in this context, towards the future, social inclusion strategy will be successful. But the most important thing is that today — which we have here is the future that comes to us, to see us, to see us — what we are interested in, what we are interested in, is whether public policies are solely oriented to people and to give them greater opportunities, or whether they are oriented to other interests that do not obey directly to improve people's lives. Today we have here listening to those who are our future, and they are our present, and we have an obligation to give them the best, because for that we are here, for that we represent the interests of the Greek people, and not for anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. The Social Policy Advisor José Manuel Rey Varela has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Villares, ladies and gentlemen, very good days. The fact is that I also consider it very timely — it is an opportunity — that my first intervention as Social Policy Adviser is to address the policies of the Galician Union, the policies of the Greeks in the field of social exclusion and poverty, in response to the question put by the En Marea Group, but I am sure that this is something that concerns all Members of this House. I say this because this House, which represents all the Greeks and the Greeks, must also be a space for debate on the policies that interest people, the policies that affect people, the policies that affect families. And when we talk about families, which are a fundamental core of the articulation of our society, especially those families that have less resources. That is why, before detailing the actions of the Government and, in particular, those of this board to deal with social exclusion and poverty, I want — as is my first intervention — to reach out to all Members, to hold hands to all groups, on issues relating to social policy, on issues that have to do with helping people who are worse. I think that policy must be primarily people's politics and not party politics. And I think, in addition, that when we talk about data like what I'm going to say, answering this interpellation, with that data, I think it's perfectly justified that there has to be a lot of meeting points between parties to think about people. I think that's the most important thing. I'm not going to talk to them about regulations, because it's very abundant in terms of social rights, but if I think it's very important to make a reminder of a much more important norm even than the Constitution when we're talking about social rights, which is the Declaration of Human Rights. Its Article 25 guarantees everyone a proper standard of living to ensure — as well as their family — health and well-being, and, in particular, food, clothing, housing, medical care and the necessary social services. That was precisely this inspiration, the roadmap of social impulse that in the previous legislation we managed to bring forward through the new Social Agenda, precisely with measures that have to do with food, clothing, housing, medical assistance and the empowerment of basic social services, promoting collaboration; collaboration between not only political groups, which is also very important, collaboration between administrations. It is essential that the different administrations operating in our territory, in particular with competences in the matter — the Council of Galicia, the Parliaments and the Councils — be able to unite if this is really a priority for all. We have two very important roadmaps that are running: the Galician Social Inclusion Strategy 2014-2020 and the new Galician Social Agenda, with the benefits we talked about earlier. Querying the query about the data. I'm going to give you the data from Galicia, it's also true that contextualized in the set of Spain. The AROPE rate, an indicator that as you know is used at European level to assess the risk of poverty and exclusion, is almost three lower percentage points in Galicia than in the state as a whole. In Spain, at present, it is 28.6% and in our community, indeed, as was said here, 25.7%. Moreover, from the beginning of the crisis – in 2009 to 2015 – while in Spain the AROPE rate has grown by four points, in Galicia that same rate has fallen by 1.1%. So there's an increase in the risk of poverty in relative terms, a much wider gap in Spain than it is in Galicia. We also spoke here of the percentage of people in severe poverty: in Spain of 6.4% and in Galicia of 4.2%. We also have data from the National Institute of Statistics, which coincides with the gap between the Spanish data and the German data on these four points, although the National Institute of Statistics lowers the European indicator: it speaks in Galicia of 19.4% of people at risk of poverty or social exclusion, when that of the state as a whole is 22%. The numbers—and besides how many young people accompany us here—are very dissipate, and what's important is what's behind the numbers; there's a very important problem behind the numbers, a problem that doesn't arise from the crisis, but the crisis is likely to make much more visible. And with the greater visibility we have of poverty, the risk of social exclusion, the different public authorities have also been able to act in many more areas than ever before. And I'm going to put some examples of what it's allowing us, precisely, to deal with among all those situations of great need: Galicia's Social Integration Report. In 2009, EUR 20 million, in 2015, EUR 52 million. The economic effort of all the Greeks and all the Greeks has been multiplied by more than two, so that in Galicia there is a minimum income for all those people who are in poverty, at risk of social exclusion; by meeting, as they know, as a result of the economic recovery of public accounts, the deadlines set in the Act of inclusion, in their resolution, and avoiding waiting lists. The fact, too, is another very important second measure: in Galicia we maintain the complement of CNPs, non-contributory pensions, 206 euros, almost 10 million euros of own funds investment from all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Social initiative entities, our programs, all of them were increased in the previous year to make reality of the fact that not only do we have to coordinate public administrations, but we have to be able to be lower on the ground of entities that are doing very important work. The order of social entities grew the previous year by 61%. Then local corporations -- I'm a convinced municipalist -- the gateway to social needs are our municipalities, and after many years we've improved the agreed plan to have more professionals in our municipalities, so that there are no waiting lists in the different benefits. Look, more than a hundred new professionals in the municipalities in the field of social services. I'm talking about social workers, social educators, psychologists, etc. I think we're revolutionizing basic social services to be closer to whoever needs us the most. Not only that, but also the updating of economic modules, which had been frozen for many years at a rate of 12%, which was what the social policy budget had grown in the previous year. We increase it in the increase in the transfer, too, to the municipalities. So I think a lot of measures are under way, coordination between different departments of the Galician Union. I told you about some of the most important measures of the Social Policy Council, but I can talk to you about other councils. The Housing Council, in order to avoid evictions in Galicia: Cooperation agreement with the General Council of the Judiciary and the Galaga Federation of Municipalities and Provinces; dozens of cases of evictions were stopped as a result of coordinated action by the municipalities and the Autonomous Community; the Reconduce Programme, we have 428 families assisted; the Royal Programme; the Social Rent Bond; the Empty Housing Programme, empty housing that is available to people at risk of death; and also agreements with financial entities. I would like to highlight the collaboration with Abanca, Caixa Rural Galega and Banco Sabadell so that no evictions of housing occur in mortgage execution processes. Those I would like to add to the Council's performances...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u127	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u128	...industry in relation to measures to combat energy poverty. I'm referring to the Social Electric Ticket and the Programme to avoid supply cuts. I think this set of measures is an important roadmap if what we really care about is to coordinate our work on income issues, in matters of coordination with municipalities and Members of Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u129	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u130	... developing that unique social agenda for Galicia. Therefore, in that way I hope and wish that we may continue to move forward for the good of the people who are listening to us, who are the future of Galicia, and for the sake of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, especially those who are worse. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u131	Mr. Villares has the floor on the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u132	Thank you very much. I must begin with a—so long, boys!— question by nudging his optimism, and the fact that people in poverty or social exclusion are better compared than the state average does not relieve people who are going through it in our country, whether many or few, that are enough. If there was one, we'd think it was enough. Therefore, the triumphalist contextualization seems to us to be inadequate in a matter like this. Secondly, in relation also to those same data of poverty and the rate of poverty and social exclusion, they know as much as we did during the years of the crisis — for a fall in GDP and a maintenance of pensions — a apparent convergence and therefore an apparent drop in relation to risk situations and social exclusion. But now that GDP is recovered, the situation in Galicia, in relation to the large dependence on pensions, gives rise to a new divergence. That's why data in 2015 is getting worse again, and that's why data affects, even more intensively, our biggest data. On the other hand, you referred to social entities that fight poverty. Of course, I am a complement, but I am a complement to those places where public solidarity does not come, which was the one that had to be continuously and permanently articulated so that there should not be organizations that fulfill the duties of the Public Administration. Because we, as public authorities, have an obligation to ensure, indeed, compliance with Article 25 of the Declaration of Human Rights and all the declarations of social rights that also bind us to Article 10 of the Constitution. We should do so, therefore, and not allow NGOs to play that role, or not so much as to make sure that donations to food banks are made, but we are the ones who have expended the basic social needs from the public, which is what is not being done. The conventions are very good, but you have to equip them economically, because if you don't provide them economically, you come to this gallery and you give yourself some data from some of the conventions and you don't give yourself to others. We want you to figure out how many beneficiaries you've had, for example, the Realox program. Tell him here when he goes up. We believe that they did not succeed in many of their public policies, because they reduced the social budget expenditure available to guarantee social expenditure, to guarantee decent working and social conditions, and therefore that has negatively affected, also, in the matter of what we are now talking about, in the matter of social exclusion and severe material poverty. Do you think you will recover social spending? Do you think you will do so in an acceptable way to reduce or minimize, until you can finally make the situations of social exclusion or severe material poverty disappear? We believe that their commitment is absolutely insufficient and must move forward in the following way: in addition to everything you have already explained — to commit yourself to the Greek covenant against poverty, not only to sign it, but also to fulfil it — a comprehensive plan of attention to homeless people, a plan against feminization of poverty, which includes social policies, education policies, health policies, equality... And measures against poverty and measures against the eradication of poverty in people with functional diversity are inclusion strategies, social inclusion strategies that need investment; not spending, but investment. Are you going to invest in people, especially people who need it most, or are you going to keep considering that these people are not for you an investment but a expense? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Villares. You have the floor of the Social Policy Counsellor, Mr. King Varela.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Villares, I tried not to make an intervention based on optimism. I cannot, of course, be satisfied; if I am responsible for the social policies of the autonomous community with the data we have right now. I did what I did was talk about Galician data, evolution of Galician data, and contrast them with data from the national territory. So what I was trying to transmit is that in Galicia we are developing social policies that are allowing us to improve the comparison between Welsh policies and state social policies. But, indeed, if we have those percentages, we certainly have a lot to do. What I've been trying to say is that in Galicia we have two fundamental strategies: the Strategy to Fight Poverty and Social Inclusion and the New Social Agenda; I think these are the two instruments that will allow us to continue to address all those people, families who are in that situation. I didn't talk about replacing social entities either. Social entities, of course, are born with the solidarity of many people, some in the defence of rights, others in the defence of rights to the provision of services, given that different administrations lend them directly to us, and therefore I think the most important thing is that we have right now: several actors acting on a joint concern of the Greeks, which is poverty and social inclusion. Most importantly, I think the most important thing is to act with the three "C," with the three "C" established in any kind of strategy. The three "C" are the causes of this situation, the commitment of all sectors involved in this situation and coordination. We really have spent the last few months, although the truth is we've also had a few months with quite a lot of electoral movement, three elections, at least in the last year, which sometimes prevent, indeed, that we're able to reach some kind of agreement, which I'm sure we can get to, because we're close to the next electoral process. Now we're thinking that at the beginning of legislation, there's a lot left for the next election call, which is the locals, and so I think this coordination will be the key. It is not a question of seeing here which administration is the most solidarity—if I may—which represents the most common people. What we are talking about is that among all of us we are able to have a network of social services, a network of protection for all the people who are suffering from it. That's our goal, and that's why we're increasing the budgetary weight of Galicia's social policies. The Social Policy Council, as you know, has grown by 12% in 2016, and that 12% has allowed us to significantly improve the services we provide directly, for the children, for our children, for our elders, for people who have some kind of different capacity; it has allowed us to increase, very considerably, the contribution to the municipalities, there is no council in Galicia that has fewer social resources transferred from Galician Union a year ago, that is our objective, government who governs. And there is no social entity in Galicia that perceives — I was told of hollow agreements — less resources, quite the contrary. Every social entity in Galicia has more resources than the previous year. I believe that this is commitment, the face of social policy is commitment to people, social commitment, but the cross is economic commitment; if there is no economic commitment, then there is no social commitment. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u135	Thank you very much, Counselor. Let's turn to the next interpellation. D. Antón Sánchez García and 13 other members of the G.P. in Marea, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to the challenges
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u136	Mr. Antón Sánchez has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u137	I'm going to use the counsel's argument, when he says there's no social commitment if there's no economic commitment to talk about defeats; he's also going to make it difficult for his advisor Mrs Vázquez. Well, you didn't answer Villares when he asked how many beneficiaries have been until now of the Realoxo Program, almost sure the advisor will answer how many beneficiaries the Realoxo Program has taken since it's in force. The last time we heard the data was 43 beneficiaries, in a period where there were thousands of evictions. That's the success of the programs that so paraphernalia are being announced here: 43 in a period where there were thousands of evictions, 43 of the 500 homes announced by Mr. Feijóo, those 500 Sareb dwellings made available to the refugees, the people who needed to evict. And here we're talking about various derivatives of the same issue, which is the widespread impoverishment of a wide range of populations in this country and the Spanish state, which has been exacerbated in recent years. We're talking about energy poverty, but it's poverty. Yes, there is a derivative that is the privileges of the electricians, which have increased 69% of the price of light in recent years, but they really are poor people who can't afford the heating, the house, who can't afford the light of the house. We're talking about defeat if you're trying to use patches, advertising and propaganda for a problem that's structural, for a problem that's poverty, and that's now being seen, eight years after that exploded from the real estate bubble, when all these mortgage cases were passed that had been signed in conditions of growth and that people threw themselves very cheerfully, very cheerfully because it was the way to have a housing. That happened, they've already challenged all those people who had mortgages too expensive for what they earned, but what do we see now? The problems that are increasing are those of people who don't even have to pay a rent, that is, a structural problem. A structural problem, why? Because there are very low wages, because the lower wages have dropped much more than the average wages — even recently the INE data came out — and because those wages don't pay for housing, and because jobs are much more unstable and precarious, and because a person has a job today but in a month he may not have a job, and then if he's three months without employment and no income, or with an income of 426 euros, he doesn't have to pay the rent. And above all, structural issues are not questioned by these governments, because there are conflicting interests. I mean, housing policy doesn't question itself, you keep considering housing as a business, and that's why the data on housing market reactivation are being celebrated, which means housing increases, because for you it's an economic engine and it's not a people's right. And that's why we don't make a rental public park, as we do in other European countries, and so the Galician Union has reduced the possibility of making public housing in the Housing Law, and that's why they make policies against the creation of a rental public park. If you think you don't, Counselor, you have the opportunity to come here and give data, give you data on the creation of the rental public park, which is what you've done over the past eight years, they haven't just arrived. It gives data, too, of realos and data, too, of the budget executions of the housing function. Because in addition to allowing you to allow the disarmament drama to continue without questioning the structural issues that cause it, for example, that in the last data in the second quarter of 2016, a 3.4% decrease, i.e. 690 instead of 714 in the previous period, still being intolerable figures; a 3.4%, this is not a rhythm of eradicating that problem. But besides they don't question structural issues, you don't manage well either. You reduced the budget from 210 million euros in 2009 to 32.5 in 2014, and that is whether, in 2015 after signing the State Housing Plan, the 2013-2016 State Plan Convention. You see the urgency you had to solve the housing problems of the people who signed it in September 2014. That was his priority. In the same agreement where you don't fund a euro for any promotion programme of the public housing park for rent, zero euros in the agreement you signed with the state, zero euros for rehabilitation, zero euros for help for housing rent; they didn't put a euro for these programs, and they say they care about people. These are data, they're not good words. Well, 2014, September, a program 2013-2016, when there was the urgency that was in those years. But it's just that you have reduced these budgets, but it's not just that, that systematically in recent years, since you rule, the execution of the housing function is the lowest in the whole Government, in this case only exceeded in 2015, according to the General Account, by chance also by another little priority, which is the promotion of employment policies, which has a 53% execution, which should also bring down the face of shame with the unemployment there is, with the situation of the workers there, that you were only able to execute half of the employment budget. And you run at home, access to housing and quality of housing, do you know how much you executed in 2015, Counsellor? 60%. You've given up uncompromising — I'm not saying at the stage of recognised obligations — EUR 17 million. It's 17 million euros that aren't spent favoring the right to housing for many people who have problems with having a decent housing, 17 million euros, do you think little? Do you think that these circumstances are left without spending 17 million euros, Counsellor? Do you know what the budget of the program of empty housing you both advertise, advertise and voter want to get out of it? Do you know how much it is? It's EUR 690,000 for four years, EUR 172,000, and you're not running EUR 17 million. You obviously talk a lot more about the Empty Housing Program, which has the dimension it has, has the effect it has, and they don't talk about, on the other hand, the terrible management that they do by leaving without running not a year, but since 2009, systematically, games for housing. I mean, in housing policy you have to be on one side or another, it's time to change the model, you can't consider housing as a unique and exclusively economic engine, first you have to be right and then you have to be business for those who do productive work in this sector, mainly we believe in rehabilitation. By the way, as well as the rehabilitation data, you may be happy with the evolution of the rehabilitation data since you arrived. There were 985 rehabilitation works in 2009, and in the last year, in 2015, there were 234. That's the commitment to the rehabilitation you have. There was a year that they had a 1.35% execution, I think I remember always repeating Mr Bugallo here. Well, you have to change the model, but you also have to manage better, and to manage better you have to come here and not repeat the same speech from a government as if you just arrived, you have to come here now to say data, i.e., Realox Program, how many beneficiaries of the Realox Program? If you want to talk about rehabilitation, you give me data. I also wanted to ask you how many homes are already housed in the program of empty housing to this day. Listen carefully to the questions: how many homes are welcomed?, how many beneficiaries?, how many housings from Sareb, of the convention signed on 17 March 2015, or of the agreements with credit institutions, are being used by realised people?, how many? I'm asking very specific questions, Counselor, which you should know. As I know you know them, if you don't say them, it's because I suppose you'll be ashamed to tell them here. How is that initiative proposed by this Member to enable the disaggregated statistics of data deletions published annually by the General Council of the Judiciary to be known? You -- in an attitude that leaves you long enough to want -- always kept in mind that the data given by the General Council of the Judiciary are not habitual housing, which includes a lot of things. When you say that, you're recognizing that in the face of a problem like this, you didn't even have data, you didn't even have data! or you don't want to give it, you're better! or you don't want to give it. But here was an initiative adopted unanimously to give the disaggregated data. Second quarter of 2016, that disaggregated data has not yet been given. How do you intend to solve a problem without data? How do you intend to solve a problem if, in theory, we do not know the evolution of the problem? We'd like him to come here and say something was done about it. So these specific issues interest me much more than the speech that everything is going well. And I'm asking you, too, how do you value this evolution of the data of the defiances in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u138	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u139	...—end, now—if for you to go from 714 in the second quarter of 2015 to 690 in the second quarter of 2016 is a success and if you can say that your policies are being efficient. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vázquez Mourelle has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u141	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, first of all, I would like to thank you for asking me about this issue, about the tragedy of the evictions, because the fight against the evictions was a matter of priority in the previous legislation. We've put in place measures, we've worked very hard, very intensively, and we've put in place effective and useful measures that are helping a lot of people, a lot of Greeks and a lot of Greeks. A policy to combat rejections that will, of course, be one of the main axes in the social policy of the Galician Union in this legislature. And I also thank you, of course, for bringing me back to talk about data and statistics in this House, because it gives me the opportunity to nuance, to clarify certain issues, certain concepts, and to explain them again to avoid interpretations that are, of course, far from reality. When we talk about statistics here, I think I'm trying to go to confusion and create confusion with the statistical data of the Judiciary Council with regard to the launch of mortgage executions and rent defaults. It's data that you again and again are committed to presenting as home defiance, and the truth is that they are very serious things; we're referring to the data of the Judiciary Council for many things that nothing has to do with the usual home. And if we look at the details of the statistics you've commented on me before, there are mortgage titles and executions presented, releases carried out as a result of mortgage executions, releases carried out as a result of procedures derived from the Law on Urban Rentals, and in no case is the word housing, or habitual housing. And in terms of concrete definitions and concepts, I read textually: "A launch is recorded for each property whose launch or possession is agreed, regardless of what kind of process is generated and the type of process in which it is agreed or at the stage in which it is found, provided that it involves a change in the position of a property, and without taking into account whether it is a rustic or urban estate, or whether it is not housing." Therefore, statistics include rustic farm, i.e. a mountain, a farm plot, etc., and urban farms, which can be houses, but can also be unbuilt plots. In turn, housing owned by different legal persons, such as construction, real estate and, also, holiday homes. Of course, what concerns us is the usual housing, I suppose you also care about the usual housing, and I think that's where we should focus our attention and focus on the usual housing. I understand that in that conclusion we agreed, and only part of the statistics from the Judiciary Council talk about habitually occupied dwellings, and I think they need to be treated differently. I think we'll agree there, Mr. Sánchez, I hope we'll agree; I suppose you won't be telling me that you have to have the same deal a garage launch or an industrial ship that launches a habitual housing. I hope we agree there for the interpretation of the statistics. We are aware that it is absolutely necessary to know and have differentiated the statistics of the usual housing to make specific policies, and that is why we are performing management, and we continue to perform management, to get these statistics to differ between what the usual housing is and the rustic farms, of course. And we did management before they brought anything here to Parliament, then we did management, and we will continue to do it, because we are doing so, with the President of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, with the President of the General Council of the Judiciary and with the National Statistical Commission. That's why when we talk about statistics I think it's necessary to have rigour to not create confusion, and of course it's a drama, and I think we must collaborate all public administrations and all public authorities. The statistics I saw you said they're down, and of course they're down, the release numbers point to a downward trend. The National Institute of Statistics, apart from the Judiciary Council, also indicates that they fall, a 40% decrease in mortgage executions, if we compare the second quarter of 2015 and the second quarter of 2016. But don't get confused, that doesn't mean we're satisfied, and since we're worried about each other. Our commitment is to keep working while a single family is at risk of losing their homes, only for one will we keep working, and it's a reason to keep working. And you were also talking about the budget execution of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo. Well, the budget execution of the fund itself in 2015 was 92%. And look, Mr. Sánchez, Your Honor, I have explained here to Mr. Bugallo the budget execution of housing. I think you were in the Chamber when I explained it to Mr. Bugallo a good time. And we're talking about a budget execution that you're telling me, because Mr. Zapatero — when he didn't rule the People's Party either in Junta or in Madrid — said that the housing plan was executed to 100 percent moved fictitious, inexecutable budgets. But don't worry that in 2016 it's already settled, in 2017 you can't tell me this matter anymore, because it's already settled, and so I hope that the issue of the budget execution of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo will be clarified. You were talking about no public housing park. Of course there are public housing parks to help families who need it most. At this time the public housing park for rent in the Galician Union reaches the figure of 3,100 housing owned by the IGVS, to which we are allocating 6 million euros annually. So there's a public housing park. In the last legislation we delivered 600 new public housing to low income: 300 practically to access the property, with aids of up to 50% of Galician Union, and about 300 others for social rent aid, with aids of up to 50%, and in many cases even the Union has come to cover 100% of the total rent cost. Between 2015 and 2016 there were 150 housing units that increased the public housing park for rent. And I think they're data for which I understand that you were asking me, and of course I'm giving them, that they reflect that it's an axis of the main housing policy for Junta de Galicia, it's an axis of more housing. Of course we want more public housing, and I hope that's why the Town Hall of Coruña solves as soon as possible the important problem it has in the Olympic Park, which solves it as soon as possible so that we can make the 40 public housing in the Olympic Park, because the Town Hall of Coruña, really with the inability to manage, is not able to solve the problem of the Olympic Park so that we can run more public housing in the Galician Union. As for the measures taken by the Galician Union, you know that we have important measures that I believe are useful, and we are committed to measures with cooperation from all of us, I think it is very important to cooperate all of us. You know we have the measure of the payment provided for in the Housing Act, the donation of the payment in the protected housing. The Empty Housing Program, of course, this program is to move a set of unoccupied housing into a social housing bag. And, of course, I would like to — and I suppose also to your colleagues at the Town Hall of Coruña, Santiago and Ferrol — to put in place such important measures as this outside to give you a button, but it is not to give you a button, especially if they are pioneering and innovative measures throughout Spain, because we are the only autonomous community with this measure. In this measure, the councils collaborate with the Council of Galicia, because it is true that we must cooperate, and of course we will see many indications soon, results soon, because it is a measure of which we are all convinced — from the People's Valedora to the 26 municipalities which have acceded, etc., and from the Fegamp itself — that is an effective measure to give results. The Empty Housing Census — I don't think I need to give any more information about the Empty Housing Census — will allow us to have valuable and useful information to further advance and improve our housing and social policies. We have the Housing Act of 2012, which, as I told you, has important mechanisms to enable evictions, such as donation in payment of protected housing. We have a decree that we will now process for housing for insertion, and we also have the Aluga Programme, a new program that we will launch to complement this Empty Housing Program. In short, Mr. Sánchez, we will not abandon the fight against evictions, we will not yield to our efforts to help families who are at risk of losing their homes. We will continue to work to continue with the programs that we have in place and to implement and activate new programs to offer solution, and what we have of course is that the most important thing for solving is the path of collaboration: the path of collaboration with political parties, with all public administrations, and also with the citizen. That is the way that will allow us to move forward together, and that is the way that I propose to give solutions, really, to the neighbours and neighbours of Galicia. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u142	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Sánchez has the floor on the replica.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u143	If you want to collaborate so that I can speed up your management to simply have the data of which are the usual evictions, let me know, because they've been ruling for eight years, and they're doing management, and they don't even have the basic statistics yet to try to see what the evolution of the case is. Home!, they need collaboration, of course, yes, they need collaboration. I don't know if you can propose to counsel me or something, but I think it might improve. And you still have the face of talking about the Town Hall of the Coruña and the Olympic Park, that's yes, of course, now it turns out that a year and a half later the guilt is "of the evil Tides, which have a very negative influence on the drama of the defiances." Well, you have to have very little to say about your management to come up with those arguments, Counselor. I don't know if you're listening to me: you have to have very little to say to say that here today. And besides, he always says, "whenever there's a person defeated, it's going to be a total drama." Yeah, yeah, all right, all right. Done, Counselor! Done! You didn't answer: how many beneficiaries of the Realoxo program? Don't you know or don't you mean it? Tell me about it at two o'clock. If I get the payees, the second one doesn't have to answer anymore. But if you don't answer me, tell me why you don't answer me, whether because you don't know it or because you're ashamed to say the data from beneficiaries of the Royal Program. I'm not asking so much in an inquiry, I'm asking you to answer the questions I ask you very specifically, Counselor. Look, unfortunately for me, I had to study the General Account. I'll fix this, which is the General Account data. I don't know if they're wrong too, and if you're going to amend the plan for the Galician union, too, etc. But he says here they didn't run 17 million euros of final credits of 111,072,000 euros — 111 million and they didn't run 17 — and they were committed to the next year 27. This is the official data. Do you have others? Come here and give them to me. 17 million! And you, on the other hand, go around assuming an empty housing program that has an budget of, in four years, 690,000 euros, 172,000 euros a year. Is that the great solution to the challenges, Counsellor? I insist, I leave this to him. If you have any other data, let's explain or say. He did not respond to how many homes are welcomed into the Empty Housing Program to this day. How many Sareb's homes, of the convention signed on 17 March 2015 or with credit institutions later, are being used by realoxes? Am I not clear enough, Counselor? And the one of the disaggregated statistics already told me, "There's no news, we're working on it." I'm not trying to confuse you. Or are you trying to confuse the General Council of the Judiciary? The General Council of the Judiciary publishes all trimesters the data, and it's the one I come to give here. And if you're interested in knowing how many are habitual housing, because you have usual housing data, which is your duty, you should already have them. Eight years ruling and they don't even have a basic question for that! That's what they don't care about this problem, more than the electoral cost they might have. Or are you telling me that statistics have to be ignored, and it turns out that the subject of the drafts is all right? Well, if you tell me that, come here and say the data, say that we're improving with data. I won't trust your word if you don't provide data. Give me data and tell me: you're improving for this, for this and this. Or are you questioning the General Council of the Judiciary, Counsellor? Look, you gave a data: in 150 housing units the rental public park has increased. Is that a great balance, Counselor?, is it a great balance in a country where there are 300,000 empty dwellings, where Abanca — that bank we rescue with millions of all — has in this country 3,000 empty dwellings, Counselor? Is it a great scale to increase in these 150 housing years? For us it is a very poor balance, such as that of execution, like that of budgets and how that of their management to even have reliable statistics. Of course it's collaboration, Counselor, but this, in addition to its mismanagement, it's not solved with patches, it's a structural issue. If wages go down, if jobs are unstable, if people don't know when they're going to have a job and when they don't, when housing prices start to rise, when housing prices are inaccessible to a lot of people, or if they get in touch with structural issues or we're going to have a drama; that's yes, more or less invisible to their propaganda. You guys have a lot of means to spread your advertising empty, but that doesn't solve the real problem, does it? You also know him — I don't say no — but we are periodically going to real cases of meat and bone people, usually women with dependent children — who is a very affected collective — women who have children and who are challenged for not being able to pay rents of EUR 350. We're going to regularly support these people's defiances, you know, Counselor? That's happening beyond the statistics, and if you don't, you tell me a statistic that denies what I'm saying. So, Counselor, less speech, and you, who are ruling, give us data that they leave us for liars. In the meantime, if you keep insisting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u145	...in the hollow word, we will have to conclude that you have nothing to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u146	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Shut up. Counsellor for Infrastructure and Living.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u147	Thank you, President. Mr. Sánchez, I, of course, have come to talk about solutions to the tragedy of defeats and also to talk about collaboration. I held you a hand and what I find is confrontation. I believe that the best is collaboration in the face of confrontation; with confrontation soon that no solutions are given for anything. And I can't allow you to say that you care more about housing than I do; that I can't afford. He'll care just as much as I do, but I'm responsible, of course I care, and a lot, and I personally follow real cases to give them real solutions, as we're giving real solutions day after day. For us it is an absolute priority and, of course — always saying and I will always say it, and so I think it and so I feel it — we will not be satisfied while a single family who has a need for housing is at risk of losing its home. We will continue with resources and efforts to provide solutions. The statistics, of course, have decreased. We focus on programs that are underway to give solutions, and in a task that really needs involvement, we need collaboration from society and from institutions: the Fegamp, the Council of Judiciary, the People's Valedor, the Council of Law Galicia, financial entities, Sareb, the councils — of course, the councils — all these institutions are collaborating with the Council of Galicia against defiance. And also social collectives, Mr. Sánchez, of course you are: Red Cross, Caritas, The Nobodys — which is a platform to prevent Vigo's disappearances, to whom I have contact, of course, and to whom we are collaborating to look for alternatives. It's not enough with declarations of intent, of course we have to have sensitivity — I think we can match both of them there — but also work, involvement and dedication to give solutions, because the real solutions to real problems are given to a work of dedication and also facts — that you talked about in fact. I ask — and I ask you — a reflection, how is it best to help, behind a sign to go out in the photo or that the Town Hall or the Town Hall of Ferrol — your fellows — decide to adhere to the program of empty housing to which the very valet of the people advises to adhere to the Town Councils? I think it's the simple alternative to reflect. I think we have to cooperate because, if we all cooperate, we'll all have more resources to help people in the housing field. The Councils must be effectively added to each other. The Town Hall of Santiago, by the way, has joined this program of empty housing, which now seems to you not to like it. What are more effective actions or facts? I ask: are gestures or facts more effective? I ask you to reflect on the way to collaboration and not confrontation. You know we have twelve measures, you know, and they're complementary to each other, they can't be explained as isolated measures. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And there are twelve measures of dialogue, of collaboration and of the work of many and many institutions. I think the measures have to be known to give solutions; it is of no use to the measures if they are not known. I'm not going to list them, you know perfectly well that I've passed the information here in this House: the Royal Program, the agreement with Sareb, the agreement with the People's Valuer, Reconduce,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u148	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u149	And you know the sweet measures, the agreements with collaboration, the lease bonus...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u150	He's answering. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u151	I'm answering...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u152	Another thing is he doesn't convince him to answer, but he's answering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u153	No, no, quiet. Silence! [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u154	I'll give you the data. Did it hurt? The data is: in social rent bonus — 198 social bonds — EUR 553,000, since the total social rent bonus has been implemented. Because — I insist — the twelve measures are complementary measures between them, I think we cannot take isolated measures. In total, and with this help of the social rent bonus and other rent aid, more than 6,000 families receive support from the Galician Union. We have the program of empty housing — as I already told you, you know — 26 municipalities signed their accession. Mayors of different political colors, such as Santiago, Teo or Sada, are incorporated; others, such as those of the Coruña and Ferrol, are not. The hard thing is to explain that with the same acronyms, different criteria, different policies. I think that appealing to collaboration is what I think we should all work on, with resources and effort, and cooperate all. Working hand and rowing together is what I propose, Mr. Sanchez, because we will certainly come up with real solutions. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u155	Thank you, Counselor. Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and D. Julio Torrado Quintela, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union in relation to unemployment and work precariousness
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u156	Mrs. Blanco has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u157	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor, and allow me not to give you the hundred days of grace that you will often give when a person arrives in charge, since Mr. Feijóo decided that not only you, but all the previous Government had continued in his posts. With which, we understand that continuity of people will also be a continuity of policies. Anyone who reads the press notes that emits his department, his advisor, would think this country is winding up. Of course, in triumphalism and optimism, I think there are very few departments and very few people who win them. And all this despite the fact that, according to the CIS, the latest data indicate that the main concern of the Greeks and the Greeks is still unemployment; exactly 72% marks it as such. And it is no wonder that we have taken into account the latest data we know: unemployment has increased in Galicia by 2.37 % during October, twice as much as in the rest of Spain, but we see that 92.3% of the contracts signed are temporary. Before you come here, you tell us that we are going along the right path, that much remains to be done yet, or, as we have previously heard in the debate about the spending ceiling for the councillor in Fairy, that the generation of jobs is consolidating, let me tell you that these macro data do not correspond to the reality of the labour market or to the economic and social situation of thousands of families in this country. Until the proliferation of part-time jobs there was an equivalence between people and jobs. Now more than people, when it comes to job creation, doing that rating, we have to talk about working hours and full-time equivalents. Since labour reform, there has been a strong increase in part-time jobs that have forged this comparison with data from previous years. If a job occupied by a person on a full-time basis — let's put, Counsellor, 37 hours and a half — changes to two 15 hours jobs, despite the increase in the number of people employed, there's less work because, in this case, if you lose 7 and a half hours. Well, between the third trimester of the year 2016 and 2011 it works every week in Galicia 3 million hours less. The number of jobs lost would be over 80,000 jobs. Since the third quarter of 2008, more than 250,000 jobs have been destroyed in relation to the hours worked, 18.3% of the existing ones. This job destruction is accompanied by a reduction in benefits. In Galicia we have an unemployment protection rate of 26.5%, 12.1 points below what was in 2011. Only one person out of four stops receives benefits. Thirteen out of every fourteen boys and girls, three out of every four women and two out of every three men are unprotected. In the last year, the number of homes with no income — no wages, no allowances, no pensions — increased by 5,000, and affects 35,000 homes throughout Galicia. There are 75,000 homes with all their members unemployed. And we, from the Socialist Group, ask ourselves, Counsellor, where is the recovery for all those people and who are planning to do their government to prevent these people from being in the social exclusion that they are, in that social abyss in which they are now. From the Socialist Group, we can't understand how we can talk, as we can say, that everything works well when we have a youth unemployment rate around 40%. And this rate is not real, for two reasons: first, because there are many young people who accept any work; in the face of despair, they accept working conditions that are not their own, not even counsellor, this century. And the second one, because there are thousands of girls and boys who had to leave, with which, they disappear from the active population rate. They're young and licensed girls, senior graduates, engineers, etc. who are now in cities like London or Berlin ironing dishes, Counsellor, charging 5 euros an hour and working more than 54 hours a week, with wages that do not reach 1,000 euros; 1,000 euros to live in cities that have a very high standard of living, of the highest in Europe. They predominate timeliness and low wages, with a gross annual wage that has been reduced since 2010. In the case of Galicia, in addition, we have Spain's third lowest average salary. A particularly dramatic situation in the case of women, because precariousness and inequality, Counselor, have a woman's name. Taking part-time work and in branches of activity worse paid than men, they would need the year to have 460 days, Counselor, to charge the same as a man. Will you follow your government, Counselor, turning your back on the middle of this country's population? What will they do to fight for women's equality in the labour market? To say despair and discouragement in the labour market is to talk about long-term unemployed people, who are over 45 years old, whose chances of finding employment are around 4%, so many and many of them left and threw the towel to find work. They are people who are out of the labor market and disconnected, who see how their professional skills are increasingly obsolete. They're almost 50,000 older than 45 years of age who have no kind of protection in Galicia, without hope, in the abyss of poverty, and all abandoned by the failure of the government's investment to reincarnate them in that labour market. They and they, Mr. Counsellor, are also waiting for some answer from your government. With this bleak panorama it is hard to think of something that this government has done, but something it has done: to support the measures that came from the Government of Spain in the face of destructive labour reform, destructive of stable employment and of quality and builder of workers and poor workers and of precariousness and temporality. A labour reform that violates union freedom and collective bargaining, in addition to protecting and protecting the violation of the right to strike. By the way, it's a pity I'm not here right now, Vivenda's advisor, but sometimes it's necessary to put yourself behind a sign. And we have the silence, Counselor, the silence of your government in the face of the distribution of the employment funds that have been carried out from the state. Galicia received some EUR 404 million from 2012 to 2015 compared to the more than EUR 1 billion from 2008 to 2011, a 60% decrease, when registered unemployment increased by 35.2%. And they also did something: repeat from here in Galicia over and over again that the situation was improving, that it was creating jobs, that it was creating stable jobs, and all while alarmingly increasing precariousness and temporality. And another thing: to say they were going to make a law of employment, a law of employment to create between 80,000 and 100,000 jobs, which is not very ambitious, Counselor, because the number of hours worked the only thing I would do, Counselor, is to match ourselves at the beginning of the previous legislation. And well, the budgets have been reduced. This graph, Counselor, shows it perfectly. Since you arrived at the Government of the Union and since Mr. Rajoy is in the Government of the State, budgets allocated to employment have decreased in an alarming manner. In December 2008 there were 1,713 euros per person stopped; in December 2015 there were 398 euros budgeted by the Galician Union. This situation is unsustainable, Counselor. And, of course, we are waiting for action today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Blanco, I thank you for bringing this initiative to the House because not only is CIS marking that it is the main concern of Spanish and Greek, but it is also the highest concern and highest priority of the Government of Galicia; it was this when we had to dedicate resources against the crisis and boost economic recovery, and it will also be now, when we have been growing three years and expectations for the economy of Galicia continue to be positive, opening new opportunities. In fact, Your Honor, you know — although you did not reflect it in your intervention — that the forecasts indicate that we will close the year 2016, growing above 3% and that we will meet the goal of reducing unemployment to 15.6%, and all this, Your Honor, after getting nearly 80,000 unemployed people to leave the unemployment list since the beginning of the second legislation. So the facts confirm that the path we started eight years ago is far from the story you just made. And, therefore, if you ask me whether there will be a continuity of policies, I have to move you clearly that you do, because, Mrs. Blanco, what you cannot do is to omit data — I will then refer to that. If you want to have a serious debate on the employment situation in Galicia, you must bear in mind that this is a sustained work in time, which is a trend and that, above all, in fact, there is a need to develop new measures to address structural problems. And logically, it's not enough. It's not enough that many Greeks and Greeks today are better than in 2009 and it's not enough that we can change the Bipartite situation — since you also mention 2009 — when the Bipartite is destroyed every day 135 jobs and today more than 50 people are working. That's the reality of the labour market in Galicia today. But as I said, it's not enough. It's not enough because we know well that there are Greeks and Greeks who are still suffering from a lack of employment, and we also know well that there are many families who lack enough resources for a decent life. And, therefore, all motivation and all employment policy, industrial policy, will be directed precisely to consolidate economic recovery and also to work more intensively on the quality of employment. That's the commitment we have. And, of course, from the very first moment, even if you don't give me 100 days, I will give you 100 days, precisely so that you and your group can change that fatalistic position and enter a path of consensus and dialogue with the Government, precisely to work in this direction and therefore not only to consolidate policies, but also to promote new initiatives, where we hope to find the Socialist Group, in dialogue and consensus, because we are talking about the future of the Greeks and we are talking about the Galician labour market. We have, therefore, important government work. It won't be easy. We understand that there are opportunities, but we also understand, honourable Member, that we have a context — that is why I spoke to you about the continuity of policies — that we have a strategy and that we have a roadmap, which is Agenda 20 for employment; an agenda where measures are collected, where there are objectives and where there is budget, in particular, 20 measures to take up this Agenda 20 for employment, with clear targets, not only focused on job creation, but also on the improvement of training, vocational training, dual training, and also on the effectiveness of public services; targets which, as I said, will be collected in budgets with 180 million euros — towards this budget — and to which, by 2020, more than 900 million euros will be spent. A roadmap, Your Honor, which has yielded results. Over 24,000 jobs were created in Galicia last year. Also — as you know — affiliations continue to increase in Galicia over a year ago, in particular at 2.14%. And also, Your Honor, when we speak of quality, I think you have to admit that, in the course of the year, until October, we already have more indefinite contracts than in the same period of the previous year, namely 8.5% more, and we also have more full-time contracts, which is growing at 8.25%. Besides, I'm going to give you a data that seems particularly relevant to me: the whole increase in occupation in the last year, Your Honor, was full-time. All the occupation — I repeat, Mr Losada, which I see surprised him — all the occupation, in the last year, was in full-time, in particular, 25,900 people. Mrs. Blanco, in your speech you -- you told her -- have omitted a lot of data and, for example, speaking of quality, has not reflected that in Galicia two out of every three employees — two out of every three employees in Galicia — are undefined, with a full-time employment contract, and also that there are 10,500 more people in the last year who have that indefinite contract the full-time. And he didn't say that the yellow homes with all the assets occupied have increased in the last year by about 3%. And today, in Galicia, three out of every four Greek homes have all their assets working. It is true that we need to continue to deepen the situation of our homes, in particular, we are missing 72,100 families to which we have to give them a proper and urgent solution. Logically, that solution has to go through the job. And that's why, Your Honor, I can tell you that we will prioritize precisely the reintegration of those families who have all their assets unemployed. We're going to work to improve the individual care of each unemployed person through an integral approach to improving the employability of the family as a whole. It is indeed one of the objectives we want to share with parliamentary groups, and we hope to find that consensus on this new initiative. We will, as I said, continue to move forward, prioritize the most affected groups, indeed, young people, women, long-term unemployed. We will logically urge that these jobs be stable and of good quality, and all that, Your Honor, given that the problems of the labour market in Galicia, Spain, at the international level, are structural. And so this needs realistic action, it needs consensus with social agents and it also needs greater coordination between different administrations. And for that reason, honourable Member, we are going to bring to this Parliament an employment law; an employment law where we can establish the most favourable, from a normative point of view, context to promote job creation, and employment of stability, quality employment. I'll give you the will, of course, of this government of power to consensualize that normative text to include the most appropriate measures. We'll also work logically on the Women's Employment Plan. We have to work to give you a space, the space that belongs to women, within the labour market and, of course, we will also be aware of the Youth Guarantee Programme, which, as you know, has opened the dialogue at the Spanish level at the initiative of the European Commission; of course, in Galicia we will give you a new impetus. I believe, sir, that the labour market situation and the economic situation in Galicia needs a greater dialogue, needs a greater consensus, needs to jointly identify which solutions are the most appropriate, and I tell you with all the respect that I believe that, when we talk about employment, we must stop fatalism. I honestly believe that it is impossible to go back to reforms that have allowed us to change the trend and create jobs. I hope that in these 100 days you can change the attitude towards the Government and, of course, I can tell you that we have a difficult but important way forward. And in that debate of improvement in the labour market, of course, you will find this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. In the replica round, Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u161	Thank you very much, President. Let me, Counselor, first of all, locate him in time. We are in 2016, which means that the inheritance we received both in Galicia and Spain is neither that of Mr. Touriño nor that of Mr. Zapatero; it is that of Mr. Rajoy and that of Mr. Feijóo. That's the inheritance we're receiving, Counselor, first of all. [[Applause]] I'm so sorry that you come here today to say that your policies will continue along the same path. And let me tell you that you have given data that is not, of course, the one that we manage the Socialist Group or the EPA data, which is not our data. The number of occupations in Spain increased by 2.65 per cent; in Galicia, by 1.82 per cent. The number of social security affiliations in Spain increased by 3.44%; in Galicia, by 2.14%. And you've been talking about reducing homes with all members unemployed before. Well, in Galicia, it's 1.4 -- I repeat, 1.4 -- in the rest of the state, 8.6 on average, Counsellor. So I don't think there's much to say that this is a success, it looks like us. And it was only missing, Counselor, that two out of three employees were not undefined! Now, how many indefinite jobs have been created in recent years? So, look, the tendency you're talking about creating stable employment is that since the employment reform came into force 40% of the temporary contracts signed do not exceed one week, twice as long as this reform comes into force. And you, as Mr. Touriño said and also told him that they will continue to sink — from the Bipartite, indeed — and that they will follow the path of working elsewhere, let me tell you that Mr. Touriño, President Touriño, has left a share of the Union's own funds so that the municipalities can hire unemployed persons of 8.5 million euros. Mr. Feijó suppressed it. The State has funds so that municipalities can hire plaintiffs. In the budgets of 2011, the last year of Mr. Zapatero's government, 50 million euros appeared in transfers; this year, with Rajoy, 1.3 million. That's the inheritance we're receiving, Counselor, yours, yours. He said very little time to talk about youth, as it would be usual in his government. And, of course, he talked about the Youth Guarantee Plan. Is it true that I don't know what you're up to, the youth guarantee plan, Counselor? It's been on for two years since the 2014-2020 period. A plan with a budget of over EUR 6 billion, with the aim of receiving a job offer, continuing education or practice within four months of formal education or being unemployed. Despite the alarming data from the EPA that brings youth to 40% unemployment — and again repeat it, Counsellor, there are, visible the thousands of young people outside our country — the data — and I am from the Ministry of Employment, Counsellor, I am not from the Socialist Group — are alarming. The German Government only planned 13,72 % of the budget allocated for the years 2014 and 2015. As you will understand, in 100 days, what we will continue to do in this Chamber, what we will continue to defend, is that your government is concerned and is dealing with thousands of people who are going through it badly, who are worried and busy creating stable and quality jobs, which was what there was before in that reform. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. The Councilman of Economy, Employment and Industry, Mr. Count López, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u163	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Blanco, allow me to correct you: I haven't talked here about successes, at any time. I'd appreciate it if when I had referred to my intervention I hadn't put in his intervention references that I've never moved. I've come here to talk about realities. I've come to talk about realities, about data from the EPA, about data from registered unemployment, about policies that we understand are having concrete results, and I've also come to talk about measures that we understand we have to continue to push, and I have offered you that ability of dialogue and consensus that you at no time seem to want to collect, but I, as I gave you 100 days, because I hope that in the next 100 days we can come to an understanding, because I understand that the labour market situation is really a concern for all of us, it is a concern of all parliamentary groups, and we have to give an answer, under the responsibility, logically, of the Government, but the Government has the power to oppose these channels of dialogue, including, logically, in that law of employment. I haven't referred to inheritance, you've already taken care of this reference, but I don't know... If you refer to the past, for I have to do it, because, of course, I don't know if you want to talk about Zapatero or the Bipartite, we can talk about what you want. Look, at the end of 2011, with Zapatero in Spain, 1,400 jobs were destroyed, that's reality; 1,400 jobs were destroyed in Spain every day. In the Bipartite there were 50,900 Welsh people who have grown up with unemployment lists in the past year. And right now, Your Honor -- and that's the legacy of eight-year work -- the month of October ended with 23,152 unemployed less on the unemployment list than in 2015. We are currently, Your Honor, with a rate of unemployment registered below the levels that Galicia had seven years ago. And that recovery is also in quality. I'm going to insist again: two out of three workers are undefined on a full day. But, Your Honor, 86%, more than 8 out of 10 people in Galicia, have a full-time job. 86% of the Greeks have a full-time contract, and 7 out of 10 have an indefinite contract. That's where we have to work. That's the reality, and I think with the data you really bring, the only thing you want to move is confusion. Logically, we have to work to create jobs, and that responds to a model of growth in which we are working, in the knowledge economy, in more innovation, in more industrialization, and that means supporting Thursdays, supporting entrepreneurs, means supporting self-employed people; that means, Your Honor, also supporting industrial fabric. I hope that the Socialist Group will support industry in this legislation and therefore support Rozas, support the Ence, support the Reganosa, support it to Cee and Dumbria and also support the Sabón. I hope that you will support industry and I also hope to find opportunities, logically, in the primary sector and therefore in the forest, in milk and in agri-food, a job that we have to work on. In this Agenda 20 for Employment is where we have to place the debate on the improvement of the labour market and therefore work on the greatest inclusion in employment, on stable quality recruitment and, of course, on those families, Your Honor, who have all their assets at risk. Logically, we're going to work on active employment policies to improve their job integration. And, of course, we will develop the Women's Employment Plan by facilitating their inclusion, balancing their participation in all sectors where we have to work and also logically looking for the means to eliminate the wage divide. And working with young people, young people. You gave comparative data from Galicia and Spain. You know perfectly well that Thursday's unemployment rate is lower in Galicia than in Spain, you know it perfectly well, and we'll continue to work on that youth guarantee program, working on intermediation, employability, incentives for recruitment and entrepreneurship. We hope, logically, to find the Socialist Group in that context. I believe that the facts are what they are, I believe that the facts are evaluating the action of the Government and I hope that the Socialist Group will reflect, in these 100 days, decide and want to work in the future of Galicia, in consensus, in dialogue with the Government and, therefore, opening up opportunities for all the Greeks because, ladies and gentlemen, this is the legislation of economic consolidation, it is the legislation to continue creating jobs, it is the legislation to continue to increase the quality and stability of our labour market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Conde. Developmental modification of the plenary session
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u165	Before proceeding to suspend the session until 4.30 p.m., I would like to inform you that there has been a change in the agenda and therefore questions 5.4 and 5.5, which deal with the same subject, will be accumulated, and 5.4 and 5.5, together with 5.6, will be discussed at the end of Question Time. So, having made this clarification and agreeing with all the authors of the questions, we suspended the session until 16.30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u166	We resume the session with the fifth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government. First I would like to explain to you that, just as in the other paragraphs there is some flexibility on the part of the Presidency over time, in this one we have to be a little bit stricter. So, I also have to tell your lordships to keep in mind that the questions are three minutes, the reply of two, and that we have to cut when the time is already fulfilled. Then the vice-president had reported a change in the agenda, and now we have to make a counter-altering of the agenda — little — and that the questions that would be debated in penultimate and lastly, which correspond to the accumulated question about Ferroatlantics, we are going to debate them lastly — if I have it here, Ferroatlantics; it is a question that is a cumulative debate of two groups — and we are debating in the penultimate question of Lake Peñas. So, if they think it's right... perfect. Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and Da María Luisa Pierres López from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the announcement of investment of more than 15 million euros to expand the Debugger Station of the Praceres, in Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u167	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u168	Thank you, President. 2001: Galician waters declared the area sensitive to the right bank of the Pontevedra River. 2009: the former Environmental Adviser said: We will reorient the river sanitation policy after the failure to manage the Bipartite. 2013: Galician waters, again, declare the area sensitive to Pontevedra river. 2014: a large part of the maritime banks attending the Post of Raxó in Poio, opposite Pontevedra, declared zone C. End of 2014: the European Commission again denounced Spain to the European Union Court of Justice for the inadequate treatment of urban waste water in several areas of Galicia — Poio, Pontevedra, Marín and Bueu — and had already passed in April 2011 and October 2013. 2016: curiously, in summer, before the autonomous elections, the president of the Union announced an investment of more than 15 million euros to expand the EDAR of Pleasures. His words were: "In 2016 it is the priority of the Environmental Council, and it will be the most important infrastructure within the plan for the integral sanitation of the river. Together is working on scheduling jobs for startups before the end of this year 2016." Counsellor, the reality is that in Lourizán there is a plant, that of the Praceres — it is an EDAR — which is managed directly by the waters of Galicia. Take care of the urban waste water treatment of Pontevedra, Marín, from the municipalities of Poio, Sanxenxo and Vilaboa, you know it well. Pontevedra has not completed his sanitation network. The last agreement that you had to sign, you decided not to sign it and, as a result, Pontevedra's creek supports excessive water treatment and suffers from poor purification. Also, before the elections, you yourself, advisor, signed with Ence economic support for the expansion of EDAR, a project of up to 15 million euros — including photos — within an environmental pact with the company. This happened in June, Counselor. The specific agreement—second you said in June and second you picked up the media—for the improvement of the debugger would be signed in three months. It's been five years, and the worst of all, it's been fifteen years since that year 2001 when the right margin of Pontevedra's stream was declared sensitive. And after these stories, which look like Peter and the wolf, because they will come, they will come, and never come, you will understand that we ask you whether the statements of the President of Galician Union of an investment of more than 15 million euros, as he said in electoral pre-campaign, for the Praceres Debugger Station, in Pontevedra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u170	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Vilán, therefore, you are indeed right in the whole story she made about the dates and the various steps, which come to guarantee this commitment by the Government of Galicia both in 2001 and in 2013 with the improvement of the sanitation of the Pontevedra River. You missed a specific date, which is December 2015. You didn't talk about December 2015, because you probably don't know that in December 2015 the Galicia-Costa Hydrological Plan is approved, where indeed an investment of 45 million euros for the sanitation of the Pontevedra River is included. Nothing has to do with the 15 million euros you're now questioning me, but the truth is, from my point of view, the answer would be simple. Are you going to invest 15 million euros? Yes, and it's not 15 million euros, it's more. So much so that since those dates on which you do the report, in 2010, an agreement has been made with the Pontevedra Council to perform different sanitation actions in that county. Those 10 million euros couldn't be executed as a whole, it was 8.8 million that we could execute. It took more than a million euros than we were able to execute because of the lack of land disposal by the Town Hall in order to be able to carry it forward and finish that agreement we had with the Town Hall of Pontevedra. But investments with the Pontevedra River have to go beyond the Pontevedra Town Hall and, as you know very well, we have a firm commitment to continue to maintain EDAR of the Praceres in Pontevedra City, an EDAR that is costing the Galician Union, that is, to all the Greeks, 3 million euros a year, the only EDAR of the seven capitals we have in our community that is being held by the Galician Union. In the other capitals this EDAR is being maintained by the relevant municipalities and, of course, we are already investing 3 million euros to maintain that EDAR, and not only that, but in fact, this year, in 2016, we have an investment for the Pontevedra River — not only Pontevedra, but also Marín and Poio — of more than 11 million euros, to which we have to add the 13 that we have already invested since 2009. Eleven million euros, Mrs Vilán, which today are already being tendered or about to bid, because we are about to bid for a second action in Marín — 5.5 million euros — and the other 5.5 million euros that are missing are still waiting for Poio to sign and signal the appropriate location for that EDAR that we have already committed and that will improve the situation in which Pontevedra's river is located. So, as you said very well in your report, Is it a commitment from the Government of the United States? Yes. Since 2001, since he became sensitive? Yes. That the Galician board is the one that's going to invest? You too. That in 2016 we have 11 million euros for the whole stream, not just for Pontevedra? You too. And what will be EUR 45 million by 2020? You too. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u171	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u172	Thank you, President. Counselor, the rhino has not become sensitive, there are areas of the rhino that have been declared sensitive, but the rhino does not become sensitive, but there are areas that need them, which have a special sensitivity to their treatment. It is also true that EDAR is not maintained by the Union, in any case, it will be maintained by all the citizens of Greece, that is, we are all those who contribute to that EDAR being able to work. It's good to make politics through press headlines, counselor, but the important thing is that since 2001, since the time he declared the area sensitive to Pontevedra's river, we have followed exactly the same. The representatives of the sector themselves, at one of the last meetings they had with you, said: of all listening to the same thing, it was as if they didn't tell us anything. I mean, you promise, you promise, but then you don't. All this data that I just received, these figures — which, by the way, do not coincide with that — are the same figures as six or seven months ago your secretary-general of Environmental Quality told us in this Parliament. And your reference to the 45 million-euro hydrological plan is the same thing your Director General of Galician Waters told us in commission. What he said was this: that there was first a need for a sanitation plan, which you were going to start working before the end of 2016 in the expansion of EDAR, but that there was a choice, a fundamental problem, for the expansion of EDAR, which is the legalization of land, the problem of the legalization of land, and that if the land is not legalized, the expansion of EDAR would be absolutely impossible. So, how's it going, Counselor, the process of legalizing land? And if there isn't going to be legalization of the land, those 15 million promised by the president of the board won't be able to go to EDAR enlargement, we suppose. Our question is, is it true that, after so many stories that come and tell us, those 15 million euros are going to invest? And if there's no legalization of the land, what's going to happen with enlargement and, therefore, with the EDAR of Pleasures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u174	...and the treatment of waste water from all over this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u176	The truth is that it fits what the general directors of this council told you, in some ways, I try to repeat in this Parliament. Indeed, all these steps must be taken, they are absolutely necessary. I think that no one is going to rule if he doesn't have a roadmap, and it's absolutely essential to have a sanitation plan for Pontevedra's creek, and we say it with knowledge of cause, because it was absolutely essential to clean up the Burgo's laugh and even to clean up Ferrol's laugh. These roadmaps were written. Today, for example, in the Burgo River, we have also practically already completed the commitment by the Government of the Union to its sanitation, and therefore we believe that this step is appropriate from it, and, indeed, that more than one million euros — 1.5 million euros — which was the bidding for the drafting of that sanitation plan, today is in force, and not only is it in force, but of the eight phases that have to be developed in the next 24 months — because it will last approximately 24 months — of them, two are already in operation because we were faster, if possible, than we had to go, and we were faster, Mrs Vilan, by the pressure of the people who work and live in the middle of the sea. We were faster because, in fact, we constituted a table that is vital to me in which the municipalities of the Pontevedra River are sitting and, of course, the affected sectors, and where they, and only they, in some way, are marking the priorities of the investments that this sanitation plan is going to record and that since the Galician Union we are going to run from now on. Among them, we agree with the sector the emissary and, of course, EDAR as priority investments to achieve as quickly as possible the improvement of the situation and the improvement of the sanitation of the Pontevedra River. He was awake with them and in those steps we are. And you said the word "legalize." Well, it can be a term that you use, and it might even be the right term, although I like to say more than what we have before Costas, before the Ministry, is the request for land authorization so that we can actually have EDAR, as you say, legalized and, of course, also the ability to act within the emissary. Of all these steps that we took in the Sanitation Plan, beyond the baptistery, which was absolutely important to know the funds and even the modelling and behavior of the Pontevedra River, which is also important, what we have the ability to commit ourselves already — and so we have moved it to the sector — so that we can draft the draft of the emissary, which was the first to ask them, and even of EDAR, in the first quarter of 2017. I mean, is this investment of what you're talking about and what you ask is a reality? These EUR 45 million which has the Galician Union already centred on its hydrological plan will be a reality at the end of 2020, not only for Pontevedra, but we will have all the action in 2020 with this sanitation plan for all rivers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u178	...of our community, but it's true that those 15 million of those you're talking about...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u179	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u180	...they're bigger. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by José Luis Rivas Cruz, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the views of the Government of Greece regarding the installation of landfills, as foreseen in Lousam, as a viable alternative for industrial waste
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u181	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u182	Good afternoon, everyone. On Mount Culou, in Lousame, at the head of a 201-hectare tax cup, which feeds the stream of Fontecava, flowing from the river Vilacova, the Waste Manager of the Northwest intends to install an environmental management center, that is, an industrial waste dump. This Vilacova river joins the San Finx mine river and forms the Traba, which sees its waters in the creeks of Noa Walls. This mill of the Muros-Noia River houses the largest natural banks of mollusc breeding and production of our country, namely Berberecho and plum, and of its extraction and commercialization live each time a large number of neighbors and neighbors of this region, in recent years about 1,600 seafooders and seafooders who work in the concessions managed by the Conferría de Pescadores de Noia. This project of landfill, if it were to be accomplished, would threaten this inherited wealth of our ancestors, heritage of the present Greeks and thanks legacy for future generations. This macro-greenhouse, which would occupy 20 hectares and which would be associated with Sogama, is expected to receive a total of 700,000 tonnes in the ten years of working life. Of the 100,000 tons of waste that he would receive annually, 80%, more than three quarters, would end up buried in the dumpster, generating year by year leached that would run up to the above-mentioned nacents, streams and rivers, dragging everything in its way and endangering the natural banks of the river; rooting. We call on the Greek Government to political wisdom; to wisdom. BNG is about to move forward in a three-way waste management model: reduction, reuse and recycling, but instead in the composting drive that exceeds the Sogama model: ineffective, exhausted and contaminating. Everything contrary to the P.P. government's sponsor. The Sogama system, which in 2015 has recycled only 3.23% of the trash, in addition to a expensive system, is obsolete. It may be a good business for some, but it endangers the future of our environmental balance. At that rate, how will Sogama and partners get to 50% of recycled waste that Europe demands by 2020? Since the BNG we want to know the position of the Government of Greece on the future dumping site of Lousame and others, who form or intend to be part of the network of delayed environmental bombs that will inherit our children's children's children and that if we do not remedy them, they will mortgage an essential part of their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u183	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. You're being answered by the Territorial Environment and Planning Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u184	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Mr. Rivas, and welcome to the House. It's the first time I've had the honor of being questioned by you, I hope to answer you. I don't know if you'll like my answer, but I do, at least, want to guarantee the commitment of the Government of Galicia. The commitment of the Government of Galicia to my competences, of course, is only in the sanitation of the rivers, but I have to inform you that I also have a special sensitivity — not only to the Government of Galicia — to the sea sector because — if you do not know it — I was delegated to the Fisheries Council in the province of Coruña, and the boss of the Conferre de Noia is a person who was already a boss, therefore, I know him and I know his concerns well. And, of course, have the complete assurance that the Council of the Sea, the President of the Council of Galicia and I, as Environmental Counsellor, are not working in any other way than to improve conditions and that these people can work and live from the sea. You spoke of this approach that for us is a priority, which is to take management forward based on the four mistakes. Based not on the three errors, but on the four errors, which are reduction, reuse, recycling, and even energy recovery. That's something we're committed to, not only in the management of our plant, the plant that participates in the Galician Union, which is Sogama, where I can't agree with you in your qualification as to your efficiency and management -- I'll try to give you an answer as you are considering -- but also by fulfilling the Urban Waste Management Plan. In fact, this urban waste plan, which has been underway since 2010, is taking its first steps. We reduce 11% of waste per capita; we eliminate 625 points of uncontrolled waste; we increase 19% of the clean points. And I would like to point out, because I think it's important, especially for you — because I see it also, like me, a firm defender of the non-existence of landfills — that we close up and invest 4 million euros to close up all the landfills that were in our community, and of course we believe we have to continue on that path. You're talking about Sogama as if he weren't a reference. For me it is a reference in environmental matters. And I'd say more, an international reference. And that's not what's happening with other plants that exist in our community; there are three plants in our community. You were talking about dumps. Just by setting an example, and not tones, which the tons are in memory, are about 580,000 tons, which were treated in 2015 at the Sogama plant. But the important fact, beyond material recycling, is that 25% was what we were able to divert to the dump. And you'll say, it's a high number. Yes, it was, yes, it was, but it was even higher, if it fits, 40%, which was what we found in 2009, which was diverting to the dump. Or even higher is, Mr. Rivas, on the plants of Lousam or on the plants of Nostián, where he diverts himself to the dump of 50% and 70%. These are the data that accompany Sogama's management. Then I'll continue, anyway, trying to explain the government's position.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u185	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u186	Excuse me, Mrs. Mato. I don't know where to start with my time. You talk and we can talk about Nostián or we can talk about the Barba community, which manage and recycle 13.4% and 35.7%, while in Sogama, in the figures I have -- and I believe certain because they are public -- they went from 6 and a little recycled to 3.23% in 2014 -- that is, we're going down. So we don't get the figures Europe wants. On the other hand, while Sogama employs 43 people per 100,000 tons processed, that of Barbanza employs 150 people per 34,000/year. I mean, if we're out of jobs, the Sogama system that we're taking to people who have a little bit of light is managing the garbage for themselves, communicating with various municipalities and doing the treatment by separating their hands. The EUR 73.90 which is paid per tonne deposited in Sogama, which pays my Boimorto Town Hall — which pays about 5,000 euros per month for processing 69 tons of waste — gives to maintain 3, 4 or 5 jobs and also separates and makes environmental education. Because look, I come from education, I am a master of primary, village, unitary. You don't see papers in the street there today practically. Well, it's about taking the kids. Well I think one of the measures you should take your advice is to educate; not like kids, of course, but do a great education campaign to reduce waste production and, above all, to separate and take seriously these bombs that, I repeat, our grandchildren don't deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u187	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u188	I see it's a subject that loves you as much as I do. We're not going to give the three minutes to respond to everything you propose. I'll stick to what I've written, and then, at any other time, we'll have a chance to talk about all this. More than anything, by answering the question of the sink of Lousame and also clarifying a series of appreciations that you make. I am fully convinced that, indeed, environmental education is important, and it has been very important since childhood. In fact, we have scheduled visits to the Sogama plant and there are thousands of children and boys who have attended from schools to see that process. But regardless of this, you make a statement, in your first intervention, that says there is a connection and an intrinsic relationship between the request we have at the Environmental Council for that dump in Lousam and the Sogama plant, and it's not true, it's absolutely nothing true! and I tell you why. Because the request for environmental authorisation we have is the request of an industrial waste management plant, industrial!, and as you know, Sogama is an urban waste manager; it has absolutely nothing to do with it. But, anyway, the most important thing is to clarify the situation and give total and absolute transparency. So I would like to tell you what steps we have taken with regard to this request, which, of course, are strictly in accord with the current legislation. First of all, this application for integrated environmental authorisation was registered at the Council by the company. In August 2016, it is requested to report to 12 entities related to this subject: ecologist groups, administration departments and, of course, also the municipality. Some of these entities requested additional information to be provided that was missing. Part of those entities that requested additional information are from the Galician Union, and even the municipality itself. In September and October this file is attached to public exhibition. In this period, we have 16 allegations made by individuals as well as by ecologists and other political parties. And in November it was transferred to the company of all these reports received and the allegations. At this point, it's where we meet right now. Once all the answers are received by the promoter, that complete dossier will be forwarded to the entities so that the final report can be drawn up, and wait for the end of this processing, which you know very well that it is very long. What I can assure you — as the President of the Council of Galicia said this morning, speaking of Ferroatlantics — is that we are going to give him the treatment that is the obligation of our rulers, that it is to comply with and enforce the current legislation; and if there is only one negative report, that dump will obviously not go forward. For a single negative report that violates the current legislation. What I want to assure you is that it's not us, the Government of the Galician Union, those of the policy of landfills, no less! In fact — I insist — we are the ones who invest 4 million euros to close the existing and untreated landfills, but we are also the ones who have the obligation to comply with the current legislation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u189	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Jaime Castineira Broz and four other Members of the G.P. Galician populace, about the response given to the empty housing program launched by Galician board in the IX legislation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u190	Question by Mr Martín Fernández Prado of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u191	Mr President, Members of the Bureau, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament's professionals and the media, guests and people who accompany us, Counsellor, good afternoon to all. With the President's coming, I would like to say that in this first part-session — as some of the people did yesterday — the honour that is for me to be part of this Parliament and also — as they said yesterday — to produce me the same as some other honourable Member in Parliament. Returning to the question, the past legislation one of the priority axes of the Greek Government focused on the development of a vicious social agenda with the launching of plans, measures and actions aimed at dealing with situations of difficulty that were suffering some of the Greek families due to the famous, and named in this full, economic crisis. It is true that the impact was somewhat smaller in Galicia, thanks to the proper management of the Government of Galician Union. In this social agenda, special emphasis was placed on housing-related initiatives, in order to strengthen mechanisms to try to provide a solution to those people and families with difficulties in coping with the payment of a mortgage or rent of their homes. Thus, the Galician Union has driven a package of measures to guarantee the right to housing and to fight against the challenges and their consequences, developing new formulas to facilitate access to a home for the most vulnerable groups. Among these new measures put in place by the Government of Greece, is the Empty Housing Program, which at its time counted with the support and collaboration of the Galega Federation of Municipalities and Provinces, with the Fegamp. A program that has as its primary objective the creation of an empty housing stock for social rent, incorporating the housing of bodies, individuals and businesses that are not found to be inhabited, and counting on this with the assistance and essential collaboration of the municipalities of Galicia, local administrations. Since the beginning of the Empty Housing Program, both the Government and the group that supports it in this House, we believe that the participation of the municipalities is absolutely essential, since these are the administration closest to the citizens and which best knows the specific cases of families and citizens, because they are the ones closest to them, especially through social agents. In this group, and since this Parliament, we believe that families who are at risk of losing their homes, or who cannot access it, represent a social drama against which no responsible administration can be inhibited and look elsewhere, and less the municipalities. For this reason, and since the Union's Empty Housing Program represents a great opportunity to add to the Greek municipalities in the struggle...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u192	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u193	... against the rejections, we present the following question: What is the answer from the Greek municipalities to the program of empty housing set in motion by the Council of Galicia in the past legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u194	Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u195	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the empty housing programme which has set in motion for the Council of Galicia is part of the 12 measures we have taken in order to provide support and solutions to these families with difficulty in preserving their homes and also with difficulties in accessing a new housing. So it's a program to help those families with difficulties. It is included in the RehaVita Plan, approved in February 2015. It was the first housing plan approved by the German Government, by an autonomous government. An empty housing program, which is, of course, a pioneering initiative, and its priority goal — as you said it — is to move from an unoccupied housing package to a social housing bag; therefore, a set of empty housing for social rent. The objective, therefore, is to provide housing for families in difficulty, primarily those affected by mortgage executions and also those affected by executions and rentals. We want to use the existing empty dwellings in the various municipalities with the help of local administrations. May the municipalities identify these empty dwellings in their municipalities, of owners and of bodies, and families in difficulty, and, through a technical commission between Junta and the Town Hall, assign such dwellings to those families. Of course, since the Galician Union we think it's essential to participate in the councils. As you said, I'm the closest administration to the citizen, with competences also in social policies; it's the first door to access people and families in difficulty. So also understood Fegamp, and that's why with Fegamp we signed this framework agreement on May 3rd, to jointly develop this program of empty housing. And Fegamp, of course, also saw him as a real opportunity to give real solutions to the real problems we have in Galicia. The Convention establishes the basis for the accession of the different municipalities to this programme which has driven the Galician Union; and also sets maximum rental prices according to the municipality, depending on the characteristics of the dwelling and depending on the circumstances of the beneficiary. In any case, what we want is that you're interested in both the owner and the tenant. And also something very important: it's compatible with any social aid; therefore, it's compatible, for example, with the social rent bonus. From the German Government, we offer guarantees because they will be guaranteed twice as much as they are guaranteed: multi-risk home insurance and legal assistance. The Council of Ourense was the first municipality to join this program, and today 26 municipalities have joined this Programme of empty housing. So at the Galician Summit, we are providing more resources to provide solutions to those families with problems to access housing. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u196	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u197	Thank you very much. Counsellor, thank you very much for your first reply, but I wanted to ask you if, as far as possible, I could do it a little more, in order to particularise by provinces the data of the municipalities assigned to the program. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] Also, know if they have contacts with other municipalities that also showed interest in joining the program, and what they are. And within them, if especially one of the big cities — those that are not — showed interest. And more knowing, as he said this morning, that the Valator of the People itself, within his reports, asked to be incorporated. This morning, Mr. Sánchez, I was a little surprised to see the interrogation you did in Marea. The truth is that you hear something, when you hear about social issues and housing issues...! When the Town Hall of Coruña, of its star project, 2,100,000 euros, gave them 90% of the social income for the purchase of bicycles. That's why I'm particularly interested in knowing what the reasons — if they were, of course — were given to some of the Greek cities—Ferrol or Coruña, because they showed so much interest in the inquiry — were presented to avoid joining this program. Especially cities like La Coruña, which has 19,000 empty homes waiting for this program, hoping, moreover, that somehow citizens can benefit from a program that is actually, especially social and interesting to the citizens' problems. This same week I was reminded to the BNG neighbours that we've been waiting for more than a year in the Coruña for a special commission that was approved to create to work on the defiances; and we're still waiting a year later, given the interest. That's why we're particularly interested in knowing what happened in the county of Ferrol and the Coruña with this program. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u198	Thank you. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u199	Thank you, President. Your Honor, as I said in my first speech, there are 26 municipalities in Galicia that have joined this program of empty dwellings driven by the Council of Galicia. Specifically, by provinces: 16 in the province of Coruña; 2 in the province of Lugo; 4 in the province of Ourense; and also 4 in the province of Pontevedra, for the last one — which was last Friday — was the Baiona Town Hall. Another 22 municipalities in Galicia also showed interest in joining this program and are doing the pre-trials to do so. And the municipalities are processing their housing selection and adjudication procedures — as I indicated — to begin mobilizing these unemployed housing and offering them to families in real difficulty. At Junta de Galicia we are taking a thorough follow-up of how these procedures are going in the different municipalities. Also offering maximum collaboration, because we have transferred to them bills of order and order proposals to publish and mobilize housing, as well as model contracts... and, of course, with the greatest collaboration of the Galician Union. As I said, it was Ourense - from the cities of Galicia - the first municipality to join this program. And among the municipalities that signed all these agreements to join the Empty Housing Program, the truth is we have different political colors. All the municipalities that signed, of course, congratulated us on this measure. And among the big cities, we have different municipalities, like the Town Hall of Ourense and the Town Hall of Santiago. But, in reality, in Galicia's Union, what we are most concerned about is the refusal of other municipalities, other large cities, to join this program, such as the Vigo Town Hall, the Ferrol Town Hall and the Coruña Town Hall, which do not cooperate and do not want to join this Empty Housing Program. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In these cities, the truth is that this is where we have most cases and more problems, which is why we are not only concerned, we are also surprised that we do not want to join this Programme of empty housing, because, in addition, it does not have a single euro, no additional expenditure, for the municipalities that join. That's our surprise and our concern. That's why we ask for something very simple: simply collaboration, not confrontation, and to join this program. And so we'll provide all administrations with more resources to help families who have problems accessing their homes. So I use it to make a call to those municipalities, to those big cities that don't want to join the Galician Union Housing Program, because it's a real opportunity to solve real problems. A call to Vigo, Ferrol and Coruña to recapcitate, reflect and adhere to this program of empty dwellings, which the People's Valedora also indicated. So let them sign; helping families must be our goal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u200	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mr. Sánchez García asks for the floor.]] No, no, but, Mr. Sánchez, for allusions... but... [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me a moment. No, no, excuse me for a moment. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Allusions, in any case, are Article 76.1 and are valued by the Presidency. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] And it was an allusion of little mountain, very little mountain. [[Laughter]] So you're going to talk about this normally. [[Murmurs.]] Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] No, sorry, Mr. Sánchez, very little... No, no, it's serious. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Valorate the presidency. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Thank you. [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Well, please! [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Please, Mr. Sánchez, don't tell me that. Let's go to things... finally! [[Mr. Sánchez García pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil and five other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, about the situation in which the teaching of Greek is found in the development of the academic course 2016-2017
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u201	Question by Mr César Manuel Fernández Gil of the People's Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u202	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The policies that the Government of the People's Party of Galicia has developed in recent years in Galicia have faced a transformation of non-university education throughout the first term and, subsequently, by consolidating that silent revolution in the second term. There's an important way along, but it's necessary to keep working towards Galicia for a more modern, socially fair and quality education. That was the commitment made by the new government to the Greeks and the Greeks, and it is about starting to run now along this X legislation. Without a doubt, educational policies should continue to be applied by and for students, for schools, for teachers and for management teams, as well as for families; ultimately, for the entire educational community. At the beginning of this new legislation we already have a school course, and it seems appropriate to meet in the House of Representatives of the Greeks and the Greeks, as Parliament is, what is the current situation and where one can go. Therefore, we would like to know how it is producing or how it began the course 2016-2017; how it is developing, whether it is developing normally; and how this development is perceived by the educational community of Galicia. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u203	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u204	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, there is a new parliamentary course, a new legislation, and I think we have a great opportunity to work for education both at this plenary session and at the Commission 4th as a whole. We hope that the work that we have to do with our remaining mandate will help to improve everything that has to do with the teaching of Greek. Obviously — you said it — many changes have been made in recent years. There's been an educational model that we could say has Galician cousin. And with regard to the start of the course, the beginnings of school courses always generate an important movement of people, human and material resource empowerment, and of course a great obligation to always achieve the best for our students and our students. Every school course is always a demanding, difficult challenge, where you always seek to promote a quality, modern, fair and equitable teaching. In this academic course, in 2016-2017, the Administration, the Galician Union, and the educational community as a whole have a responsibility: to promote the best possible education and also to have the best possible formative climate. We're talking about a service that gives coverage to a huge number of people. We're talking about 322,300 non-university students. We're talking about services like school transport, which mobilizes 90,000 students; services like the dining room, which mobilizes 60,000 students; more than 30,000 professionals and more than 1,100 own centres; that is, we're in front of a service that mobilizes an ingenious number of resources. Obviously, we understand that the course has begun normally, and we have always been launching a message of tranquillity for families. I believe that in Galicia we are based on institutional respect, we implement LOMCE already in all courses, as it is marked in the law, without any kind of drastic ruptures in the curriculum. And we can say that our model — based on language learning, on educational innovation, on the empowerment of vocational training, on coexistence, etc. — is having results. I think this is the time, we could say that the time has come, that political leaders start moving to families, we start moving to the educational community, more calm and much less political confrontation. We must talk more about education, we must talk a lot more about results, methodologies, educational innovation and equity, and talk less about politics. I believe that we have started a new time, in what both Spain and Galicia need to move forward in common, fundamental points in order to reach a framework agreement, which is what society demands of us. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u205	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u206	Thank you, President. Counsellor, first of all, thank you for that initial X-ray that made us this start of the course, of the 2016-2017 course, in the German teaching. We would also, in some way, like to highlight the fact that since the Council, the interests of the student in Greek have been defended throughout this period. But I would also like to point out and pretend a little bit in some of the words you mentioned right now, like, for example, the fact of the need to send tranquility to the entire educational community. As he well pointed out in his speech, the public education system, education, is a public service that must be characterized by precisely that tranquillity, fairness, justice. In short, it is not good that the public education service should be used to turn it into a political struggle, when the spirit of education — and I believe that this is what we all understand in this House — should be precisely the opposite; that is, the spirit of the education system should be the spirit of consensus. To that end, we understand that if you have to continue working along this entire legislation, and we hope that this work will give you the fruit that we all expect. In that sense, and in order to deepen in that message of tranquillity that it is necessary to send to the entire educational community, precisely to defend itself from that intention, on occasion, to complicate everything that is the climate related to the relationship of the educational community and to the political context itself, we would like to know which steps will be taken in the immediate future to, in some way, make it easier this whole way towards the horizon that we all wish it to be achieved, which is the horizon of an educational consensus. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u207	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u208	Indeed, Mr President, the application of LOMCE in recent years in the Spanish group, and in particular Galicia, has not been easy. Obviously, there are technical requirements, and there was a rejection in certain political formations and in their representatives that complicated the implementation of LOMCE. However, in Galicia we have been able to apply it quite calmly in the system as a whole, and always contributing and respecting everything that has to do with the characteristics of the Greek educational system. In fact, next Monday, on the 28th, we're going to have a sectoral conference in Madrid, where we wait — after the messages launched by the minister — to reach some vertebral axes that can, in the short and medium term, establish a line of dialogue and a line of consensus that leads us to something that we all demand but that some people try not to do so ever, that is to reach an educational pact. I think it's necessary to start removing the ideology from the classroom, to stop having such an ideological view of the education system, and we think tranquility is fundamental. What are you debating? What will be discussed immediately? I think two important questions. The first is that evaluations — within the application of LOMCE — of ESO 4th and ESO 2nd evaluations, have no academic impact; that is, they are not capable of having the qualification. By the way, at the beginning of the course, at the Education Council, we already demanded that the evaluation of 4th had no academic effects; and we also demanded, in the same way, that the evaluation of 2nd bachelor's degree, that is, at the end of high school, was practically identical or very similar to what was the old selectivity. We see calmly that these messages were received and received in this case by the ministry, which is the competent area, and we think that day 28 will be the first time to start working together in something that society — I insist — demands us and that political formations, unfortunately, over the last few years we have not been able to meet the circumstances. I think we now have a great opportunity to be able to walk together and reach a few lines of work that allow us to reach a consensus, an education pact. Obviously, for that, it is necessary to stop understanding teaching, which means teaching, as a battle field of ideological confrontation. I think this is something that has greatly affected teaching, which has generated enormous restlessness in the system and which has had a negative impact on academic results. We now have a chance, I think we should look at her with a high point of view. We must not cut short, we must not think of shortcuts; we must not think only of short-term or interested political interests, we must forget opportunisms. Finally, what we have to be able to do is look into the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u209	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u210	...to work for the future...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u211	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u212	...and leave the political and ideological confrontation to other areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u213	Thank you, Counselor. Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, from G.P. of En Marea, on the action to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the application of the 2nd Bachelor's degree revals established in LOMCE for the 2016-2017 course
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u214	Good afternoon. That LOMCE was the worst educational law in the state can say that it is a subjective opinion — as the president did this morning — owned by the opposition. However, as soon as they walk the streets or even open the windows of San Caetano they will see that LOMCE is already the educational law that has had greater opposition in the streets of this country, as will happen again tomorrow, Counsellor; I advise you to listen. A law that, if anything succeeded, was the unanimous opposition of the entire educational community, which is manifesting itself in favor of its necessary immediate derogation. You just said it's against the ideological content of education. Well, we too, so we urge you to put down a law that has a clearly reactionary ideological content, with macho and national-Catholic gestures. We all remember the glorious words of the former Minister, now converted to ambassador, when he said that Catalan children should be castelized. The children and children of Galicia also, though not mentioned, with the complicit silence of this Government. Castilized and Christianized, he failed to say, since everything has been committed to reintroduce the subject of Religion into the classrooms and to make it score for the first time in the file. But LOMCE is a segregating and elitist law, as evidenced in the evidence of the revals. The revalids were, from the very first moment, one of the most criticized points by the entire educational community and the experts, because they attack equality of opportunity and they go diametrically against the most elementary pedagogical principles. It's evidence that causes unnecessary stress in the student, favors school failure and questions the teacher's daily work. In case it was little, look at the calendar. We're almost at the end of November, that is, very close to finishing the first evaluation, without the teachers or the student having the slightest idea of what will be examined in a few months, except for the little things that come out in the newspapers, which seems to have become the Official Journal of this Government. This situation is absolutely entrepreneurship, as it results in constant improvisation and change of criteria for revalids, which every day are no longer relevant for titration and change of subjects. A real exchange of chromes! You, Counselor, even though you make a complete and absolute dislosure of her, have a direct responsibility in this situation. You who speak so much of an excellent student will understand that citizenship also wants an excellent advisor; and excellence — they should know well — is not enough to copy, translate and paste. That in the classroom is usually called cheating, and it hangs with a zero. You value the note that we should put to a counselor who only did what he did since he arrived at that post was to go to Madrid, copy, translate and apply everything they sent him. So you have the dubious honour of being part of one of the few governments that did not piss against the defeat of LOMCE. For all this, I wanted you to take advantage of and inform us of the reason that led them to change their CAPs for the revals...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u215	Thank you, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u216	...and tell us if, when Monday goes to Madrid, it'll only go...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u217	Thank you, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u218	Open...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u219	Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u220	Thank you very much, Mrs Chao. Welcome to this Parliament in Galicia. Don't have the slightest doubt that both I and the rest of the Council, as I think the whole of the People's Party — and you know — listen to society. If we didn't listen to society, we'd be in our happy world, and unfortunately it's not. We listen a lot to society and we work in that direction. I believe that you and I are Members, we are members of political formations, and I think that something fundamental is that we respect the laws. If we don't respect the laws, of course, we'll be doing him a weak favor to democracy. There is no democracy without laws, because otherwise we would remain at the discretion of the enlightened, who would say what to do or not do. Having said this, I would like to comment on a number of questions that you have said, perhaps the fruit of your momentum; positive impetus. But of course, you say cheerfully that LOMCE is the worst law we've had in the state, adorned with certain qualifications. Of course, it's a statement, at least, risky. He says it's the one that got the most answer. You, like me, are more or less young people, but obviously I remember -- you're more than me, you're more than me -- than LOXSE: there were readies. [[Laughter]] At LOXSE there were messed up! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] LOXSE, which was the magic recipe, was the law that most school failure has produced. And there's nothing more socially unfair than school failure. LOMCE, which is so demonized by you, is getting equal opportunities, which favors equity, which favors the learning of students with more difficulties, such as basic vocational training, and is achieving a significant reduction in school failure. With which, I think that before I make those self-consumption statements as interesting as you do, I think I should have a little smell and a little feedback to see what history was; I don't say for many decades, but for a little while. Those purely ideological assertions are very good, which obviously stem from ideological prejudice, but which, really, have no greater support. Obviously, the current trend is a trend towards reducing school failure, which I think is the most important thing that an educational law can have today. And I respect other issues you're talking about, because I just wanted to ask you the following. I believe that throughout these years Galicia has been able to defend its position in the administrative sphere of the Government of the State, which is who is competent, and always does so in institutional respect. Without going any further, I repeat to him what we did a little while ago. We asked the ministry, at its own time, that ESO's 4th assessments did not have an academic translation into the file. Fortunately, we had a positive result. In which, I think there are two ways, let's say, of building the future, of building a better future: one, saying that everything is wrong, dynamizing everything, thinking that we can build on the rubble -- which seems to be more theirs -- and another, taking what there is, what there is, what is democratically approved, and trying to improve it...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u221	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u222	...and that's what we do. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u223	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u224	Counsellor, I am terribly sorry that you wasted all three minutes in giving a single answer to the concern of families and students in Galicia. I'm very sorry you don't, and, above all, I'm sorry you can't. Be honest, until Monday goes to Madrid to take note of what the minister tells you, you have no information to move us. It's a pity I don't have [...] against the revalids for their total and absolute forgetfulness of competences. One doesn't know whether it's out of the question or out of laziness. In any case, the consequences are the same: families remain outside; uncertainty between students, teachers and families, continues. From En Marea we believe that nullifying a system of access to the university without having properly profiled an alternative system, which is, at least alternative!, a huge responsibility that leaves serious difficulties for the true protagonists of education, who are the students. Doubts continue, but you still have to clarify something in your reply. Can you explain a single advantage of the revamps on the PAUs? Do you consider it appropriate that at this point in the year the student of Greek still has no idea what these tests consist of? In the face of all the resulting eviction, which could have been avoided if it had clearly manifested itself against LOMCE, do you have any measures in place to mitigate its effects? Can you tell us how many days the tests will last? How do you plan to conduct oral examinations of English, ensuring anonymity, for about 15,000 students, who are being examined every year in Galicia? Will they set up booths so that the examiners and examiners won't be seen? Or are they going to bring here, at the LOMCE test, all the teachers at the official schools to examine in English? How do you plan to enforce the right that the law collects you to have a copy of the exam only three days after you have the results? They're going to have a whole squad of staff scanning exams! In short, will you, for once, exercise...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u225	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u226	...your skills and try to paralyze the baccalaureate tests?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u227	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u228	Mrs. Chao, this councillor, this government, from the very first moment, we have sent a message of peace to the families. I think that's what a responsible administration has to do. Obviously, a political formation that plays just the opposite, what it does is what you just did. That is to say, trying to launch uncertain messages; trying to somehow generate a climate of uncertainty, because you understand that in that climate of uncertainty — according to you — you might have more electoral revenue. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But look, we're working. The Galician Union is working with universities, with three universities and with Ciug. And don't listen to me, that I'm a very bad, very bad politician of the People's Party. Don't listen to me, listen to the principals, listen to Ciug. If you take Ciug, your president -- I suppose you can get to know him through the media -- I think he's launching the same message that's launching this education board, and I think that's not a ballad; I think that's something that must be done seriously, something that is being done seriously. From here, look, if you want to keep throwing uncertain messages, in the end, time is the best judge, time puts each one in his place. And you, of course, clearly tell us that we suspended LOMCE, without more. Do you know what might happen if an existing law is suspended? What would happen, Your Honor, with basic vocational training? What would happen? What about the 4th itineraries? Or are you against basic vocational training? If you're against it, it's another debate. Would you tell ESO 4 students that they are on an academic itinerary or on a practical itinerary? What would you say to them? That these itineraries are wrong, that they are useless, that you should not, from the very first moment, try to guide the academic future of each student according to their needs? We don't know what you'd tell them. What would you say to the students who took free configuration subjects, subjects such as robotics, programming, landscape and many more that are useless? I think, Your Honor, that the key to political action is that we can either agree with a law or not, but we work to improve it, that's what we do. And we do it from loyalty and from the competence that we have; and we demonstrate it when we ask at the beginning of the course that the assessments of 4o had no academic weight. On 28th it will be shown that a situation requested by Galicia will have an answer, which is the important thing for the whole of Spain. I think we have to finally leave that vision, if we want to be catastrophic, of the system in general, and of the education system. We must start working with a vision of the future, because I think that after many years, of many organic laws in the Spanish state, in the young Spanish democracy, where we have not been able to agree, there is now an opportunity; an opportunity that can allow us to start working and start improving the education system.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u229	Thank you. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u230	And I insist not on launching catastrophic messages. In the end...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u232	...time puts each one in his place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u233	Thank you. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, about the current state of the construction project in Ourense province from a center for continuity in care for persons with disabilities once 21 years old
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u234	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. This was one of the first questions that the PSdeg recorded in this legislation, but it wouldn't be fair to say it's a PSdeg initiative. It is an initiative of the ProCAP Platform, a platform that is made up of parents and mothers and political and trade union organizations in the province of Ourense, a platform whose objective is that Ourense is finally and once and for all a centre for people with functional diversity older than 21. Your government, Counselor, has committed itself before the autonomous elections to which Ourense has held this center. In fact, all the parties that we represent in this House have signed a document in which we are committed to the first phase of it being in operation in 2017, the second phase in 2018, and also that it was public, public management and that it had public employees in it. And I'm sorry to be repetitive but it's really important. Well, the surprise came after the autonomous elections, the surprise, the disappointment and indignation of the parents and mothers of this platform, when they examined the project, they noticed that it wasn't what was promised. It was an occupational center with day-to-day and residential care, when what they really need is an occupational therapeutic center. And, Counsellor, at the same time as you were considering this center, they published in the CEO of October 19 a plea for the private recruitment of five squares; this yes of occupational therapy. Today I ask you, Counselor, to be clear in your answer. It's very simple: yes or no? The Ourense center for people with functional diversity is going to be a hundred percent public, with public service and public employees? Are you going to modify the current project, a project that doesn't fit the needs of these boys since none of those who leave the special education centre right now could be adapted? Will you do a modification to that project? And will the number of squares increase, Counselor? Because, as we understand it, the sum of the two phases is about 44 squares; i.e., Ourense would be left again, with half the squares that have the provinces of Coruña, Lugo and Pontevedra. And I ask you, Counselor, to be clear because these parents and mothers are really worried. Today morning they were out there expressing themselves at Parliament's doors, and I don't think they were for nothing. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u235	Thank you very much, Mrs. Blanco. Response from the Social Policy Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to the House, as you did to me. Because, in fact, speaking of this subject, I'm not new, I've been in front of the Social Policy Council for a while, and fortunately I was able to know the problem of the disability of Ourense province at that time. And I could also know the problem of disability that leads her to ask this question about the current centre, a public centre in Ourense province, in the city of Ourense, which completes the 21-year-old stage; that is, there is no passage from an educational center to a social policy center when they exceed 21 years. It seems to me that this goal is a government goal, a goal for all the Greeks and all the Greeks. Ourense was the only province that didn't have a public CAP and therefore I once again manifest with all clarity, as you told me, that there will be a CAP in Ourense and that this CAP will be public, as in the rest of the provinces of Galicia. I mean, in addition, that this was a process of months, months of dialogue, months of approach precisely with the project's recipients, who are basically the parents and mothers but also the professionals of the Social Policy Council, who have an accumulated knowledge in the field of disability, I think it's very important. The first meeting I had with my parents and mothers was March 29, I committed myself to a new meeting in thirty days. The next meeting was on 27 April. At that meeting we agreed to bid the project, which was assisted within three months I gave. And so we had the next meeting, within these three months, when it was already devoted to drafting the project to a team of architects, specifically on July 26. I want to tell you, in addition — as you ask me about the status of the file in the question in more detail than you have done now — that it has already been received by the Council, that there has already been a technical meeting with the parents — the last one, because there have been several — and they have visited several centres. I was interested in knowing everything that exists in disability, the best we have in disability in Galicia. The last one — to summarize why I have little time — was October 27. There were some considerations that the parents and the advisor did what they did was order the technical services — which for that one is a counselor and for that he has the responsibility of the necessary changes — to respond to what the parents needed. I'm also telling you that I'm looking forward and worried about a new meeting with your parents so that we can close all the issues related to this center, because I'm worried you might be late, because I have some commitments and I wouldn't like to fail to meet those time commitments. Every day we lose will be days we lose in bidding the works that lead to the recovery of that center for Ourense and for the orensans who need it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u237	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Blanco's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u238	Thank you very much, President. I am convinced, Counselor, that parents and mothers thank you, and they have thanked you at your own time, that you have received them and the treatment you are giving them away, just as I would appreciate you answering the questions I am asking you today. I repeat: is the centre going to be public, with public services and with public employees? Yes or no, Counselor? Are you going to make a modification to the project that you see as an occupational therapeutic center? Are you going to have that center as many services as possible so that no one should be privatized within that CAP? And I mean the laundry, the kitchen, and also the human resources like speech therapists or physiotherapists, which are needed to care for these people. Are you going to increase the number of CAP squares? And I ask you, please, to answer me. Indeed, Counselor, these parents and mothers have been fighting on a platform together, as I said before, with many other organizations in the province of Ourense, as well as I am here representing. And you know well that, among other things, they were able to collect -- and I mean here before their lordships, because we feel particularly proud -- 50,000 signatures from all the oransansans in just fifteen days. They deserve all the respect and admiration of the Socialist Group, and I am convinced, Counselor, that you too. That's why I'm here today, in their name, I ask you not to miss them. Don't miss them, Counselor, because they trust their word. And please keep your word and keep this picture that was of all the candidates in the election campaign, of all the political forces that we are represented here, signing this document. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can repeat it again, I have no drawback. The intention of the Government of Galicia is to have a CAP in Ourense. The intention of the Government of Galicia is to make its management public. I don't know if you understand me well. Public management is with public employees, that's public management. You can keep raising your questions. In fact, it will be a therapeutic center. I've already shown to parents and mothers, and I can repeat it at parliamentary headquarters, which I think we can do a good job, which I think can be a center that improves other public centers in Galicia right now. Look, I was also talking about something else -- I'm telling you about the confusion that happens -- I was talking about an intellectual disability auction in Ourense, like saying if this had anything to do with this center. Look, those squares... he told me that. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] These squares are at the Valdeorras boat for an entity that has been working for many years in the field of intellectual disability. We have in Ourense, in the city, also other entities in the field of intellectual disability, which fortunately also have squares and which are developing a good job. I'll give you a data from the last year. Look, in the last year, there were 168 intellectual disability squares supported by public funds in Ourense province. By the end of this year, responding to the need for many intellectual disability entities in Ourense — entities like Aixina, entities like the San Rosendo Foundation — I can tell you that we will get these squares to 202; hence an increase of 20% in attention to intellectual disability in the province of Ourense. [[Murmurs.]] In that area I tell you that we study case by case — the first, the counsellor —. The students who have the centre that we have to break up will exactly be 14 -- the students who will leave that center by 2020, when this legislation is over. And I'm also going to give you the data you're going to get out of here by 2022, which is 18. We've also registered the waiting list from all over Ourense province, we've got 14 people on the waiting list, and we've also registered the demand in other provinces that are from Ourense. So what we think is that, with the first and second phase of the project, it will be totally...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u242	...resolved the problem of intellectual disability squares in Ourense province, and very especially in Ourense city.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u243	Thank you, Counselor. Cumulative debate of Mr. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez' question... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me. Yes, indeed, it is a mistake. First comes Mr. Lago's question. Question by José Manuel Lago Peñas, from G.P. of In Marea, about the knowledge by the Greek Government of the situation that people who are standing in Galicia are living
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u244	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u245	Because I'm new, I'm going to have a parliamentary license and I'm not going to blame the government -- and less a counselor I appreciate -- for nothing. Therefore, I ask that in the answer you try not to throw yourself at me, and I don't know who else, the fault of nothing. Counselor, do you know what 92,500 people are? It's the people in our country who have been unemployed for more than two years. I suppose you do. In the Spanish state, there was a new concept, the very long-term "stopper", which they don't know, is called long-term "stoppers". We, who have been unemployed for more than two years, are called long-term unemployed. It's 92,500 people in our country today. You know what happens to a person who's been unemployed for two years? You lose your unemployment benefits, you have no income. You know what's wrong with him? That he's tired of going to SEPE's office and don't do anything to him. You don't have to call anyone to get a job anymore. Of these 92,500 people, men and women in this country, half, 50,000, are over 45 years old. They're on their way to permanent exclusion, because the threat of never working again depends radically on their heads. What do we tell them, Counselor, what are they waiting for? Are we telling them that quarterly GDP is already at 3.2% and that it is possible that they will have a job within six years? Shall we tell them to wait? The government has to be aware that in the huge number of unemployed people in front of the offices, the older 45 who have worked in the construction, who have been unemployed for two years, will be the last to get out of this situation. What do we say to them, Counsellor?, what do you expect?, what do you have time?, what does it matter if you have no benefits?, what do you think we cut budgets into policies to form?, what do you not exist in the technical employment offices because they got fired qualified to make a route for them? Counselor, what do we tell them?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u246	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you will allow me, Your Honor, Mr Lago, I would also like to welcome you to this parliamentary debate. You know that appreciation is mutual and that you have all my respect, and above all, what I hope is that all your knowledge in the field of work can bring them to the debate and, above all, if you can contribute to looking for those solutions in which I agree with you, which is precisely, in that all the unemployed, the 198,000 unemployed we currently have in Galicia, each and every one of them, are waiting for an answer, an answer to open up these opportunities, and in particular, the long-term unemployed, who have a really complex situation not only for the time they have been unemployed but also, in many cases, because those opportunities are more complex. Logically, the answer has to come necessarily by two axes, and I think we'll agree there. Firstly, logically, for an industrial policy and an economic policy that opens up real opportunities for all the unemployed. That means, therefore, a bet on entrepreneurship, it means a bet on industry, it means a bet on the rural environment, and so on by the agri-food industry, by the forest industry. And it also means, especially in certain collectives, such as long-term unemployed people, giving them a concrete, specialized and personalized response. From that point on, the Government's long-term unemployed programme actually includes these custom routes. It is often not easy, because of the very circumstances where the unemployed are, but indeed there is an effort being made so that through these custom itineraries — especially through guides, and guides working in the Public Employment Service of Galicia — you can give an answer. The truth is that the current situation, from a purely quantitative and personalized point of view, is a really difficult situation — because when we talk about unemployed people we always talk about difficulty — but it is also true that we are having results. And I think that's also worth it, because in the last legislation we actually got 70,000 unemployed less. I already gave the data this morning. But the most important thing, with regard to your question, is that 30,000 people — those close to 80,000 — were long-term unemployed. So we managed to get 23% of the long-term unemployed out of unemployment. I believe it is an insufficient result but it logically moves a perspective towards the future as well, and therefore we have to follow both sides — specifically on long-term unemployed —: to continue working on incentives for recruitment, because it is very important in these groups, and, according to the contract mode, these incentives are currently varying between 2,500 and 23,000 euros; and also through these guidance programmes, which we believe are especially important, through the presence of specialized tutors. We will continue to deepen also through training and therefore that these opportunities also come through training so that all the unemployed, and particularly the long-term unemployed, whom you referred to, can find a solution and that these opportunities are also for this collective in a very special way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u248	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u249	Yes, I say again that I do not intend to blame myself, but to me it is such a dramatic situation, possibly the most dramatic situation in the country, which requires an effort and a solution. But as figures are introduced, he has to say them. In 2009, according to EPA data, there were 23,600 people in Galicia who were long-term unemployed. In 2012 there were 76,300 people. In 2014 the maximum was reached: 109,900. And now there's 92,500. That's the evolution: 23,000, 76,000, 109,000 and 92,500. What are you talking about? From 2009 to 2014, the recession was particularly hard with a segment of the working class. And there's been a huge problem because these are people, with names and names, that many have not been unemployed for two years but three and four years. It's a raft, a chronicle, a structural problem. From 110,000 he went down to 92,000, that's right. You also know, Counselor, that many of these people who have stopped being stopped is not that they have found work but that, as people over the age of 45, they have stopped being active population, they have abandoned active job search. But while accepting and not introducing this correction, the reality is that here in this long-term unemployed group the reduction of unemployment is greatly reduced by a deep, structural problem that has to do with training, with the network of those people to start working, with the functioning of public employment services. In that sense, counselor, good words, yes; but figures. We will see — when the budget is presented — how much more resources are increased for active employment policies, how much better the material and human resources...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u250	Thank you, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u251	...in public employment services so they can make this orientation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u252	Thank you, Mr. Lago. Mr. Counsellor's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u253	Thank you very much. Mr Lago, you know perfectly well — I think you will agree — that all employment policies are going through economic growth. Without economic growth there is no job, and therefore there is no job well-being and therefore no job can give a solution to all the unemployed and also to long-term unemployed. I understand perfectly that the situation of each of the 198,000 unemployed we have right now in Galicia is a situation of enormous difficulty and therefore we have to give that answer. But that answer, as I said, goes through two fields, which are complementary, there is no priority in those two fields. We are talking about economic growth and hence economic policy and industrial policy; and, secondly, those active employment policies, both in the development of training and in the development of recruitment incentives, which is where they have to find that answer. I laid a hand this morning on the whole opposition to actually address all these issues in the new employment law. I think we have to consent and we have to dialogue to find the best tools to answer all these elements. But I also believe that we have to talk about the economic model and we have to talk about how to respond from the point of view of economic policy and industrial policy. And I think we have to make a clear bet there for the enterprise, for the autonomous and also for the industry. I'd like to talk to the industry's Environment Group and see if there really is real support for industrial policy and therefore employment creation policy. And so I'd like to know what your position is in projects so important to Galicia -- or at least that's what this government understands -- how it can be Reganosa, how it can be the Meirama center, how it can be Ence, how it can be Elnosa, how it can be the industrial aircraft pole of Rozas or how it can be, logically, Ferroatlantic or how it can be future projects like Soapon. Finally, by industry, because there, ladies and gentlemen, there is employment there too, and there are opportunities for all those long-term unemployed. So we have to talk about industry, economic model, we have to talk about the new employment law, we have to talk about active employment policies, we have to give them concrete solutions, which is what citizens are asking us to do. I sincerely believe in dialogue, a relaxed consensus and concrete initiatives. Both the opposition and the Government believe that we have an obligation to give concrete answers through that employment law and concrete instruments for the whole of the unemployed as well as for the long-term unemployed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u254	Thank you, Counselor. Cumulative debate on the question of Ms. Maria Dolores Toja Suárez and Mrs. Nora Presas Berganginos; the first, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, and the second, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Q. Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and Da María Dolores Toja Suárez, from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the acquisition by the Board of Galicia of the commitment to take the appropriate legal measures to avoid segregation by the Ferroatlantic company of its activities in the production of electricity and railways Question from Noa Presas Bergantiños and five other Members from the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the performances carried out or planned by the Greek Government to avoid segregation by the Ferroatlantic company of its activities in the production of electricity and railways
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u255	First of all, Mrs. Toja Suárez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u256	Good afternoon. Again, go our solidarity with the workers and the workers of Ferroatlantics, as well as with their families. I appreciate the presence of our comrades and fellow socialists of the Cee Town Hall. Ferroatlantics, on the Death Coast, employs some 400 direct people and a large number of indirect people; trade, hospitality, automotive, is dependent on Ferroatlantics. It's so important that for us, who are from the Death Coast, Ferroatlantica is not a factory, it's the factory. We're at about 20% of the unemployment rate and we're suffering from a true demographic indentation and a reduction in public services. But, after yesterday and today's speeches by Mr. President of the Board, the truth is that a series of reflections must be made. They say there's nothing presented by Ferroatlantic. Well, even though Mr. Larrea met in Madrid with the workers' legal representation. But we have seen that detail just of no importance. What, then, does it make sense if this does not exist, if there is no such proposal for sale, the proposal, the initiative put forward by the PP? What's the point of asking for those technical and legal reports about something that's not requested? What are those reports, then? Since 1992, Junta has maintained the conditions: one, that there is no segregation; and two, the termination of the concession in case Ferroatlantic loses its title. Could it then be that the true object of these reports is the change of the conditions set? Well, if you keep the same conditions, so that new reports are requested, maybe when, in your opinion, there's nothing presented? Why are there any progress in requesting reports on something non-existent? Could Mr Feijóo and the PP Parliamentary Group know that Ferroatlantica will file a request for segregation for its subsequent sale? Could the People's Parliamentary Group be aware of the company's claims and need those reports? His intervention certainly clarified nothing about non-segregation, and the segregation of activities would leave us in a real ruin in the neighborhood. So please answer clearly yes or no, a clear answer to a clear question. Does it compromise or not commit the Galician Union to take the legally appropriate measures to avoid segregation? A clear question, a clear answer. If Ferroatlantic fails on the Death Coast, we have nowhere to go. It's the factory. And, please, I'll also ask you not to try to face the Death Coast with Soap. Do not condition the posts of Sabón to those of Cee and Dumbria. They can be, and must be, complementary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Ask, now, of Mrs. Presas Berganginos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u258	Mr. Count, the processes in this House are so completely slow that, unfortunately, we already know the answer to my question. But I'd like you to have some sincerity and to be able to tell it directly, to verbalize that you didn't push or push any kind of action to avoid segregating industrial production on the Death Coast, the hydroelectric part of the production of the river Xallas. Because rather the contrary, because what you did, today morning, was to break a social and political consensus around this issue; an institutional consensus, not only in this House since February, but also in the Council of the Crown, in the councils of the Coast of Death -- I remind Mr. Tellado yesterday -- and also in councils governed by you. Yesterday, we from the BNG, on behalf of the workers and workers of Ferroatlantics, asked them, please, the People's Group had withdrawn this proposal or accepted the amendments to the opposition aimed at maintaining that clarity which is opposed to the segregation of Ferroatlantics and the part of hydroelectric production and you didn't want it. You didn't want, either yesterday, to clarify what your dark relations are with Mr. Villar Mir, if it's true all that appears in the papers around there and if it's true you should have something already agreed with him behind it because if there's no reason for alarmism, as you say, if there's no reason to suspect, why then that change?, why that change in the People's Party's Party proposal?, why leave that door open?, and why those insinuations that Mr. Feijóo laid today? why, then? You know perfectly well that the sale of power stations would have a ball for Mr. Villar Mir and that it would automatically end up with Ferroatlantics, it would end up with this company because for 25 years, while the public administration would inject them with money, while they were taking out 800 percent of the benefits of hydroelectric power plants, they didn't invest at all, they moved the R & D+i out of Galicia and didn't modernize just the facilities, which look like another century and another was. We wonder why if non-segregation is fundamental to Aragon, isn't it to Galicia, why that difference? And please don't come to me like Mr. Feijó talking about an industrial plan because you know perfectly well that, when you talk about investment plans, what you forget is that this is actually a decommissioning plan, that when they imply that the sale of power stations might be a door to increase investments in the Soapón, they forget not only that there are already investments on that plant, but that there is a beautiful tradition in this country of Ferro-Atlantic non-compliance with the comarca, with any of them. For example, we could talk about repotencing the Xallas River power stations, a super-exploited river that received three more turbines in exchange for 700 jobs that they are still waiting for on the Death Coast. They have a little dignity and at least they receive the workers who are locked up in the Town Hall of Cee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Response from the economic, employment and industry advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. It is also logical to welcome both Mrs Toja and Mrs Presas to the parliamentary debate. Logically, the first can't be any other way, to transfer solidarity to all the workers, to all the neighborhoods of the Costa da Morte. What I would like is to nuance some things: Mrs. Presas, don't tell me what I have or don't have to say. I don't mark what you have to say, I, if it seems good to you, will answer what I think I must answer you. In any case, don't come to teach me lessons in dignity, please. I don't think so. [[Murmurs.]] And I'm telling you this because from the very first moment this government has transferred its solidarity to the workers and heard this government, the government, Your Honor, in particular this acting councillor has met with the workers... [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u261	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u262	...because the workers were worried, logically, about that situation. And I myself transferred them personally that, in fact, the company had not formally submitted any kind of application and segregation of assets, it has not submitted it at this time, but that, nevertheless, the Galician Union, logically, would be alert to all events and keep them informed. And of course, I have also transferred this government's priority, not only today, but throughout all these years and towards the future, will be to watch for industrial activity and jobs and, also, in the specific case of Cee and Dumbria, to safeguard public interest as established by the granting of hydraulic installations. So that's our job, so they bring me together, as economic, employment and industry advisor, in function, with the company committee of Cee and Dumbria, and so, logically, we establish that fluid and permanent dialogue with the business committees, as we have done with all the companies that require government action. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the President of Galicia this morning was very clear and I think it became clear that the Council of Galicia, as it always does, will abide by the law, always. And, too, it became clear that the entire linkage of industrial and electrical energy production activities is still in force, it is still in force, and there is no element that has changed that condition. I believe that the answer is clear enough, clear enough. Another thing is that you're thinking about different things and you're starting to think that, here, bringing this subject of dark relations to the parliamentary headquarters... if you understand that there's something typified because you already know where you have to go and if you don't, leaving such statements in parliamentary headquarters is not exactly a parliamentary courtesy, but you'll know what you want and how you want to conduct the parliamentary debate. [[Murmurs.]] In such a case, we are still gentlemen without receiving any kind of request and segregation from the company and therefore all the elements of assumptions that you have transferred in your interventions are assumptions and, therefore, the only possible message at this time is that the German Government, of course, will demand from Ferroatlantica what it has demanded for 25 years, exactly the same, that it is nothing but the scrupulous compliance with the regulations and the scrupulous compliance of the conditions of the concession. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We've been demanding it for 25 years and we'll logically follow that posture. In the end, the workers and workers of Ferroatlantics, I believe they know and I reiterate, that this Government is committed to its future, that this Government will always take precedence over all the maintenance of employment and industrial activity in Cee and Dumbria, that this Government is next to industry, employment, and all the opportunities that may arise — and we do not distinguish between good and bad companies, which you do - and of course this Government will never go against, it will never go against the legality and public interest of the Greeks, nor the legality and public interest of the workers of Cee and Dumbria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u263	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Toja.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u264	Thank you. If the workers are so clear about their involvement, I wonder what they do in the Cee Town Hall, there in a lock, just waiting for their answer. They say they don't have a record of segregation, they ask you the same question again: so why so much technical and legal report? What I'm telling you is a reality: we give up our land, our resources, our natural resources, and the investments promised in the region have not arrived, there's no third oven in Dumbria and there's a lease of 120 million euros with the permission of the Board on hydroelectric power plants, of which only 6.6 million have been invested in the region. What kind of control did Joina exercise on that lease and on that investment? Look, I want to talk to you about people and land, but especially people. There are people with names and surnames, families, people who are wondering what their future will be, who will feed their sons and daughters in the future. I don't know if you've ever found yourself in that situation to be afraid of your job, it's a situation of distress. I insist, talk about people. It's about 700,000 euros a month that they'd stop entering wages and if they were lost in the area, they'd stop impacting the area. The importance of avoiding segregation, if they didn't invest in 25 years to modernize an industry, it can't be competitive, it can't be competitive. I'm just asking you something else that has changed since 2013 that before it wasn't necessary to segregation and now, suddenly, is it so important? And finally, how does the Coast of Death fit its territorial balance? When are you going to pay off the historical debt you have with us, those of the Coast of Death? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Toja. Replica, Mrs. Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u266	Mr. Count, I'm so sorry. I assure you that in these four years, I'm going to remain education and respect, but I also assure you that to me the Greeks and the Greeks have not chosen me here to come to have any kind of complicity, of parliamentary courtesy, to which I know they have often been accustomed. I'm sorry, but I don't. I don't give you — I assure you — any kind of lesson of dignity, none, because for that are already the workers and workers of Cee who are now closed fighting for their life, the life of their children and a whole region and the future of a country. [[Applause]] They do teach a lesson in dignity: to me, to you and to the 75 people we're here. I do believe that there is nothing formally written, that there is no formal communication, I can believe it, but I do not believe, of course, that you have no informal information as informal information would have I don't know who infiltrated the press and forced Ferroglobe and forced Pedro Larrea to acknowledge that this operation was under way. So I don't think I have any kind of unofficial information and I haven't decided on this subject. Just like I don't believe the 42 million that they promised for Soap on election campaign. I don't think so because they talk about the facts I related before and because you'll also know that Mr. Villar Mir has a son-in-law who has a company to work on silicon in Puertollano, so why am I going to believe that this investment will come to Galicia and not to Puertollano? it would be a curious exception in our political life and in the political life of this country. Of course, if that happens, I'll recognize you in this House. You really did, indeed, have been meeting with the workers but they still expect him to come back, and to explain that clearly told them that the job was not quantified, because we know who makes the law makes the trap, and we know that, too, Ferroatlantic could justify the reduction of activity without the closure of the company. But we are not fools, the Cee workers who are fighting for their future are not, and will continue to demand from you: not speculation with our resources.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u268	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I think I was pretty clear in my first intervention, I'm going to try to be it too in this second intervention and, of course, what is clear is that this Government is next to someone is next to the workers and the workers of Cee and Dumbria. And so I'll be clear. [[Applause]] Once again it was the President of the Union, I was in the first intervention and, ladies and gentlemen, with the data we have, we understand that this public interest continues to be linked to the hydraulic concessions, so the Council of Galicia could not authorize a segregation in current terms. Of course you can't say. So, from there, if you want to politicize a matter that should not, in any case, be politicized, that's your problem, the problem of En Marea, the problem of the Galician Nationalist Block, the problem of the Socialist Party of Galicia. But, of course, we're not politicizing it because we're talking about workers and we're talking about the workers of Cee and Dumbria and this government deeply respects those workers and, of course, is going to fight as it has done for twenty-five years. And now that you come here to teach lessons of dignity, ethics and legal aspects, because it is simply surprising. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the informal information this government has, you have. What do you have in mind about informal information? Because we have the same, because it's published and the company itself transferred it to the company committees and to the workers themselves, so I don't know why he asks me. [[Murmurs.]] If you ask me if we really have to work for the future of Cee and Dumbria, we are undoubtedly working. If you ask me, if we have to work for the industrial future of Galicia, I tell you, no doubt. I'd like to know what En Marea's position is when it comes to industry. It's just one, I'll explain, in case you've lost the previous legislation, because at best... or you might have different positions within your group. So, of course, if we're talking about Reganosa, maybe you're thinking one thing and if we're talking about Ferroatlantics, maybe you're thinking another one. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] And it seems to bother you that, too, we can talk about Rozas or we can talk about Ence, ultimately, or we can talk about Elnosa. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u269	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u270	I understand perfectly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u271	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u272	...that for you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u273	We're already finishing up. There's little left.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u274	...there is no positive industry. If there is indeed the demagogy that you permanently want to move, and I regret that you move this same demagogy into such an important problem as the situation of the workers of Cee and Dumbria. Mr. Sánchez is nervous because, of course, he has gone through the past legislation, and logically he had to defend the indefensible but, in any case, he didn't dare — that is to say to me, Mr. Sánchez — he doesn't see me telling him his industrial policy or Reganosa, Mugardos; it wasn't Pontevedra... other photos if he does... but, in any case, that's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] In any case — and finally, ladies and gentlemen — we have made it clear what is the objective in this situation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's nothing other than to offer legal security to the performance that the Galician Union develops. No doubt about it. Legal security in all the work carried out by the Galician Union, transparency in the process, guarantees of government commitment to employment and the activities of the energy industry in Cee and Dumbria, guarantees the competitiveness of factories. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this Government is nothing but to follow the workers' side, to follow the workers' side of Cee and Dumbria and to logically follow a situation that has a vigil of twenty-five years and we will continue, within legality, working for the future of the employment of the investments of Cee and Dumbria and the rest of Galician industrial policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-23-DSPG006.u275	Thank you, Counselor. Solved the agenda items, aborting session.
