ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u1	The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Gazette of the Parliament of Galicia, so it is not read. Mr Xosé Manuel Beiras Torrado has justified the non-attendance to this plenary. No more inattentives have been justified. We therefore enter the agenda. Point number 1 corresponds to legislative texts. Debate taken into account by the G.P. People in Galicia, urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u2	To present the bill, Mr. Goldar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, very good morning to all. It is up to me, in the name of the People's Parliamentary Group, to defend the legislative text that we present to this plenary today in order to approve its consideration and, if appropriate, to continue its processing until its final entry into force. As his lordships know, on March 14, the Supreme Court handed down Judgment 1067/2016, which, estimating the litigation-administrative remedy formulated by the then National Competition Commission, annulled the decision of the Directorate General for Mobility of February 26, 2010. This resolution, in turn, approved the Plan for the Modernization of Permanent Public Transport Grants of People of General Use by Road. As we have stated in the justification for the urgency of this bill, the direct consequence of this ruling by the highest judicial body in our country is that, out of the 145 interurban transport contracts in 2009, only 14 would maintain their vigil, being expired, since then 131 contracts. In view of this situation, it is necessary and urgent to adopt appropriate measures to ensure the provision of the public transport service in Galicia with the maximum guarantees and maximum legal security. That objective is, therefore, the ultimate basis for this legislative text, structured in 3 articles, 1 additional provision, 1 derogation and 2 last, which we hope to count at the end of its processing with the majority backing of its lordships, because it will be good not only for the sector – which also – but for all users, who are not other than the Greeks and the Greeks. Let me now draw your attention to the background that has taken us to this moment. The adoption by this House of Law 5/2009 of 26 November of urgent measures to modernise the public transport sector in Galicia gave a necessary response to a situation in which 54 out of the 144 existing contracts at that time ended their period of validity between 2007 and 2008. The solution provided in Galicia coincided, ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, with the one adopted by twelve other autonomous communities. To learn: Cataluña, Aragon, A Rioxa, Castela-A Mancha, Canarias, Castela-León, Asturias, Valencia, Madrid, Murcia, Estremadura and Balearics. This law not only ensured the labour stability of some 5,000 workers, as we have already been able to say in this parliamentary headquarters a few weeks ago, but also, ladies and gentlemen, it has contributed to the maintenance of the Italian business fabric in this economic sector, to the maintenance of the public service in such a complex economic scenario as that of the years 2011 to 2015, and it has also enabled to promote concrete measures of modernization, programmed in the Plan for Modernization of Public Transport Grants. Ladies and gentlemen, this concession modernization plan has acted on several axes, of which we would like to highlight today the following: The technological and service-exploiting modernization, setting the conditions for the implementation throughout Galicia of a public transport operating aid system, can give an optimal response to the growing demand by users of improved service information. The integration of these contracts into the Galician metropolitan transport plans and the new system of zonal tariffs, which enabled the implementation of the Galician metropolitan transport in January 2011 in the area of metropolitan transport of Coruña; in March 2011 in Ferrol and Santiago; in 2012 in Lugo and 2015 in Vigo, to which it is expected to join this same year in Ourense. It also acted with improvements in service quality, both by accentuating fleet renewal requirements, by decreasing the average and maximum allowed seniorities for each contract, as well as by incorporating vehicles accessible to the population as a whole. As of 2010, the National Competition Commission (now the National Markets Commission and Competition) issued a requirement to the Autonomous Community on 1 March, calling for the annulment of this modernisation instrument. Although it was 13 the autonomous communities that had taken measures equivalent to those of Law 5/2009 – as we said earlier – the Commission only took an interest and resorted to the initiatives of the Valencian Community and Galicia. From the point of view of this parliamentary group, through this challenge, the Commission was resorting to the direct effects and forecasts of a legal provision adopted by the Autonomous Community of Galicia in the exercise of its exclusive powers, reasons why the Government of Galicia objected from the beginning to this position. As we have already had occasion to report in this House, ladies and gentlemen, this rejection was challenged before the litigation-administrative jurisdiction, and on May 24 the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia ruled in favour of the legality of the resort provision. Finally, as we said at the outset, the Supreme Court's judgment of 14 March 2016 coincides with that and annuls the decision of the Directorate-General, and therefore the Grant Modernization Plan. Ladies and gentlemen, the interpretation which the High Court makes of the Community regulatory framework is, at least, questionable. Faced with this judgment, as you know, the Council of Galicia has brought an incident of nullity, considering that the Supreme Court has assessed the constitutionality of an autonomous provision of legal rank, Law 5/2009, which is expressly excluded from its jurisdiction. And it could have broken with that the legislative autonomy of the House and of the Autonomous Community itself. So far, ladies and gentlemen, the precedents that justify that this parliamentary group, together with the Government of Galicia, understand the opportunity to present this bill at this time, without prejudice to the solution that the judicial bodies may adopt in the course of the procedure for challenging the said judgment. The People's Group strongly believes, ladies and gentlemen, that this text, when it becomes legal, will bring legal certainty to users of public transport services, to companies that must provide the public service and, of course, to their workers. But, ladies and gentlemen, this bill not only provides the right solution to ensure this stability, but establishes mechanisms to address an intense modernization of public service and its full adaptation to the demands of society for the next few decades. Thus, the planning of the new public transport system will be addressed by the Public Transport Plan of Galicia, PTPG, regulated in article 2 of this legislative text. Ladies and gentlemen, new technologies also make it possible and easier to provide services, such as low-demand management models, which favor a greater spread of the transport service network in our territory. For this purpose, the legislative initiative introduces and regulates this figure of the Galician Public Transport Plan as a planning tool necessary to establish a multimodal and integrated public transport system. On the one hand, it will determine, order and establish the supply of public transport services of competence from Galician Union, and will also implement the coordination of all public transport services that develop in our territory. As it is then an integral planning instrument, and in the annex to the law, its minimum content is collected and, among other things, the bidding of public transport contracts and the requirements of conditions governing contracts, laying down rules to facilitate both the succession and stability of the staff of the outgoing contractor and of the material that it had included in the operating aid system. In the field of public transport, in addition to the relevance of the price offered to the user, it is also essential to the quality of the service itself, so it is determined that bids should assess the quality criteria that are set at least 65% of the score of the corresponding contest. The plan will analyse land management in terms of mobility, set service management models at user demand and also regulate the basic requirements to meet public transport supply in areas such as accessibility, territorial connectivity, security or modal and intermodal interconnections in key connection nodes. And, of course, it must complement the basic conditions of rights and obligations of users, and it will ensure accessibility for the population as a whole. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this plan will lay down the procedures for follow-up to its compliance and the assumptions in which it will carry out the full or partial review, or the update, of this plan. Ladies and gentlemen, the work for the comprehensive design of the Galician public transport network requires a rigorous process in which field studies are developed for the analysis of current and potential demand and participation also in the set of public and private actors concerned. This participation is guaranteed by the provision of the report of the Galego Transport Council, prior to its adoption by the Council of the Union, by participating in that body the local administration, the business sector, trade union organisations, the representation of consumers and users and persons with disabilities, as well as representatives of various sectoral areas of public administrations in Galicia. This bill states that the drafting and approval work will not exceed twenty-one months, a deadline required by the stated complexity of the planning. In addition, this deadline will allow for the adjustment of transport planning within the transitional period laid down by the Community Regulation itself for the adaptation of public transport systems to the rules of competition and transparency which it introduces, which expires on 2 December 2019. In order to complete this first round, ladies and gentlemen, I mean that, together with the regulation of the framework for planning the new service map, the bill dedicates its Article 3 to laying down rules for guaranteeing the provision of services in the transitional period, and also to maintaining elements of modernization of those who had established the plan that would have annulled the Supreme Court judgment. And the content of this precept will try to explain it in my second turn. Nothing else, for now, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u4	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The Supreme Court annulled the automatic and generalized extension of all concessions approved in 2010 that fattened the millionaire business of the transport mogul in Galicia with the Union. The suspension affects the whole line of transport of passengers on the roads of Galicia, but especially to Monbus, Raúl López, a Lugo businessman very close to the political power that is involved in various judicial cases, and who was arrested a year ago in Sanxenxo when he delivered 60,000 euros in cash to hotel entrepreneurs. The Supreme Continuity-Administrative Chamber annulled the Board's decision approving the Grants Modernization Plan. The judgment follows an appeal submitted by the National Commission for Markets and Competition, which claimed that the plan involved the automatic extension of all concessions and that it was contrary to the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, which provides that the duration of public service contracts may not exceed 10 years for bus services. Although they are more than ten companies affected by this judgment, Raúl López is the main injured. Their share of business in the transport of road passengers moves tens of millions of euros annually and nearly 60% of the transport. The higher percentage of school transport, which pays directly to Junta and which amounts to EUR 130 million annually, since the extension of the concessions was linked to a reduction in the bill of school transport. Today, Raúl López's nearly monopoly is divided into 60 companies, with a fleet of 2,000 vehicles, more than a thousand employees and a billing over 100 million euros a year. Their business is not limited to Galicia, they are also in Catalonia, Basque Country, Valencian Community, Madrid and the two castles, Extremadura and even in some European country. Raúl López is involved in various legal cases, including Pulpo, but the most directly affecting him is Operation Condor, driven by the same court of Lugo, Pilar de Lara, against a supposed plot of money laundering, bribery, documentary falsehood, fiscal crime and trafficking in influence. The operation affects, among other things, the Army of Earth and the Ministry of Development. On March 18, 2015, customs surveillance agents caught Raúl López at the time he delivered 60,000 euros to two hosts. Raúl López's relationship with politics began with Francisco Cacharro and Manuel Fraga. In a sector dominated by public monopolistic concessions, he immediately converted his father's small rural company into the big Monbus group, after taking over the Monforte company in 2001. Also in 2001 he acquired La Union and then Castromil, with the support of the Fraga Board and the very politicized Caixanova, which became part of the shareholdership. And all of this after a very long labor conflict with the dismissal of several workers, in which the Board protected Raúl Lopez's interests by dictateing minimum services incompatible with the fundamental right to strike. After the purchase of the Union and Castromil, Raúl López became the first in Galicia to transport passengers by road. Its companies are the major suppliers of the Union, but it also manages public services in some municipalities such as Santiago, by acquiring former CEO General Díaz Ferrán – today at home in Soto del Real – the urban bus congress payment contracts. And to further promote Raúl López's interests, in 2010 Junta approved the law in which the express extension of the Galego de Transport Council and the Economic and Social Council was supported. He was also not sent to other councils, as it is mandatory in all preliminary draft laws, not even to the Education Council, since it affected his competences in school transport, which was also the cornerstone of the downside that justified the extension. The processing in this House was done by single reading, without the possibility, therefore, of partial amendments by the opposition groups, which called for the return of the text to be successful. Now the Supreme's ruling is calling upon the Union to bid those concessions which, according to its approval, would report a savings of 110 million for public buildings by 2020, especially in school transport, which assumed a 7% cut in administrative payments. That is, a real chanchul between Raúl López and Junta to maintain Raúl López's monopoly in public transport and at the cost of costing school transport. An entrepreneur who was denounced multiple times and who – as I said – in 2001 had a strike in his several-month businesses, a very severe strike, precisely by over-exploitation of workers, of drivers who were obliged to do, for example, school transport after transporting Vigo-Madrid, Madrid-Vigo, and when they arrived in Vigo they made school transport with a high risk for the safety of children and children, but under the protection of the Galician Union, who looked to the other side of the union complaints about the violation of labour law and the safety measures of transport. Clearly, Galicia needs a law to update the public transport system that cohesives the territory. But this bill, called urgent measures, extends the current situation for twenty-one months since the entry into force of this law, a deadline set for the adoption of Galicia's first public transport plan. That is, this bill is intended to maintain Raúl López's monopoly for another twenty-one months of preparation, giving him time to prepare and to continue to maintain his monopoly. The Greek administration must anticipate the bid for public road passenger transport which it had planned for 2020, and with this law it really nearly meets the deadline for establishing twenty-one months since its adoption. That is to say, we are presented with a proposal for a trap law, which sets a period as if we were really going to anticipate the new public transport competition, but which in practice leads us to meet the deadline and thus to secure Raúl Lopez's business until 2020. Service management models under user demand do not guarantee by themselves the provision of a quality service, as models put into practice so far indicate limiting conditions for users, such as having to request them more than twenty-four hours in advance. That does not, of course, have a great benefit for the rural population, which has to have planned its activity in order to have public transport. In management models and objective criteria for the award of tenders, take into account the quality of the service, but return to Join and the People's Party forgets the quality of employment and the ratio of female employment in a highly masculine sector. However, not to be taken into account, the quality of the services is spoken of without taking into account that the quality of the service is closely linked to the quality of the work, and also the quality of the work is closely linked to the female employment ratio. This proposal for privatization and subsidy is still being put forward based on lines of subsidy justified as aimed at promoting the use of the public transport system or for social purposes. Again, we are subsidizing companies, that is, you give the monopoly of public transport to a company and you also subsidize that company with the excuse of promoting public transport. But public transport is only promoted in one way, and it's good public transport. What you can't do is do what the Galician Union does, wait until there's a lot of people on bus stops to put on buses, because if there's no buses, obviously people won't wait for the bus. The same is true of the high-speed train, for example, between Vigo and La Coruña, a completely inoperative train because it doesn't solve people's transport problems, because it doesn't respond to the times and frequencies that people need. So if you want to promote the public transport system, let's stop with bonuses and subsidies and take advantage of it to put in a public service that responds to the needs of the population. So we abstain from taking this bill into consideration, because if we consider it as urgent a law for updating Galician transport system, it is obviously not the law that will solve the problems of transport in Galicia or that will be more fair at the time of the concession. The only thing this law seeks is to continue to guarantee Raúl López's business; a person, of course, at least doubtful in his legality when acting, and it is shown that he repeatedly violates labour law. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u7	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, Counselor. The truth is that this law begins wrong when it is no longer only lying in the exposition of motives without the explanation of urgency, but when it is lying directly from this stage to justify the law. Mr. Goldar claimed that a sentence falls into law and that, therefore, what the Supreme Court is doing is undermining the legislative capacity of this community. But that's not true, in that judgment in any case if you talk about the law, you speak of a resolution that is of a lesser scope than a law, which is the one that initiates the extension of these concessions and that is the one that violates the rules of the whole European Union, which, of course, has been passed a month after the law, when we all knew that that regulation would already have made the law impossible to develop with such a resolution. It is therefore regrettable that in a legislative text it begins with a preambular where it is deceived and a lie and a falsehood is told. So our group with difficulty can pass a law that lies directly in its written text. We are faced with a new excuse from the People's Party which, moreover, wants here today, to hide under a flood of good words and references matters that have nothing to do with what is being debated today; for example, it is said that this is to guarantee the stability of the employment of 5,000 people. It is very difficult to guarantee stability in this norm when you talk about, for example, the demands of future concessions in no case talk about the obligation of subrogation of workers, or about their working conditions. That's right, they're talking about business conditions and business improvements, but never about the workers' situation. And what is absolutely unacceptable is that they told us that this Modernization Plan, which was also suspended by that sentence, aims to technologically modernize our service of road travellers. Have you traveled by bus lately? Do you know what the modernization of that model is like? Were you able, I don't know, to go from O Grove to Santiago on a reasonable schedule? Or would you travel from Lalin to any place in Galicia that is not the district of the Ten in reasonable time and know the schedules in advance? I think you're talking about talking or doing like that computer application of Apple's artificial intelligence that says anything about what's going on and that's handling words as it comes in the situation. But the reality is that you're deceiving citizenship. What is left of those times where Mr. Feijóo presented himself to citizenship as a good manager, as the best of the managers possible? The reality is that not only is he not a good manager, but he was able to condemn and destroy the little state of well-being in this country, which was able to dynamize our economy, increase our debt to unrecognized figures before by the Greeks and the Greeks, and also condemn us to a frankly regrettable economic situation. And once again you have to process an express law to solve a genuine aberration and a cafrate made by the Government itself, as it has passed with the Law of the Land, which was even amended before it was in force. These are issues that demonstrate that these good managers who are the People's Party are really not good managers, you're actually an agency to secure the business of friends. We all know what happens with regard to the monopoly of this type of infrastructure, this type of service, as was said by the Joint Group. But the truth is, what can we expect from a president who is used to walking with drug traffickers and who is then unable to remember where he was with them? Except for that question that I knew there was snow, it seems that if our president is so incapable of remembering his vacations, how will he be able to remember that the regulations in matters such as the transport of passengers are being breached, and in this case a European regulation of obligation to comply? So we're not even talking about a law to update public transport in English, so you call it that way and they say it's a law to update and modernize public transport in German, but it's a lie. And it's not urgent either, it's a law that only makes itself necessary because of its inability to manage and to legislate correctly and in accordance with the rule. It's a law that is also obliged to bring here its inability and its decision to try to irregularly extend the set of concessions from that monopoly that we all know which one is and who is not. So it's neither an urgent law nor a necessary law for the country, it's a necessary law for a government's inability to lie even in its statement of urgency and its preamble to the whole law. The reality is, what actions will solve this rule with regard to the current situation? You, even a short time ago, in this very House a motion was debated that posed one of your points of resolution that it was necessary to establish a rule to solve the situation, and Mr. Goldar appeared in that very full saying that this solution was inefficient and inadequate, and voted against that proposal that he said an express interim law had been made while the situation was not resolved. I ask you, if you thought that solution was inefficient, that it gave no solution to the reality that was being proposed, how does it bring us a rule that actually is this, an intermediate law that poses in a part of its articulate giving that legal solution to an irregularity committed by this Government? We asked him, what's the situation? We also wondered whether you would be able to change that law to the inconcretion or the fact that it was not really about what it was done to try to comply with Regulation 1370/2007 and on the basis of a judgment annulling a law. I repeat that the judgment does not annul the law, but a resolution made after the entry into force of that regulation. So you're the only problem they had was that they wanted to guarantee some concessionaires for much longer the exploitation of that service and they've made an irregular rule, and now they're bringing us a patch that doesn't solve any of the problems; that's right, they're -- at least for two years -- that this situation will continue for these concessionaires. And you also say here today that they're going to try to use the norm to improve the quality of the service, and we say to them, how will the quality of the service be improved if in that annex, where the Public Transport Plan is talked about, in its contents, forget such important issues as those that we believe should have such a plan, the objectives? The first one to have this plan is a financing scheme. How are you going to finance that situation or those improvements that you're proposing? What is the methodological framework for the elaboration of this plan, except that it will be prepared by the Board and subject to consideration by the Galician Transport Council? What are the procedures for, let's say, being able to have capital, additional income, to improve a situation that today allows us to say that Galicia is not connected by public transport – except those large towns that may be on the Atlantic axis, because, apart from that, there is no situation –? What is the tariff regulation regarding this plan? What will be the concrete proposal for this tariff regulation? What if this tariff regulation is going to meet the economic situation of this country and it is going to be able to allow anyone to have access to public transport, so universal transport, which today does not exist in this country, where there is no universality in transport, and which is only accessible to those who can already pay? How will these new technologies that you refer to in your exhibition be implemented? In each of the points that this modernization plan develops, it is not reflected in its law that the need to implement new technologies is to say that they are present in that situation. Of course, there is no reference either to how this plan will allow it to be environmentally sustainable. Because, of course, in a country where there has been an eradication of the transport of passenger fences through rail, where, for example, maritime transport between rivers has been eliminated, where all kinds of collective transport is being eliminated, if you think that public road passenger transport will be a medium-sustainable solution, of course, we believe that this is not the case. There is a point that is not covered by the norm and that, of course, for us is something absolutely clear and necessary, especially with the increase in the paternality that has been given lately in the group of collective transport by road: security. You do not consider in the Modernisation Plan any analysis of security systems or how it is implemented, so that this security is a situation to be taken into account in the whole plan. So, we're in front of a People's Party's Government chapouza; the good managers, converted into chapuceros, which is what the People's Party does. So why do you make a hat? Well, simply because of the rush, because of the need to establish a rule that gives business assurance to those who are friends or are next to the People's Party. And if that means putting the whole system at risk, if it means leaving workers and workers in limbo and, above all, increasing the safety of travellers and ending that in Galicia there is a universal transport plan, of course, you don't care because your only goal is to secure the business of the usual ones. In this case, people are always being held indicted for various crimes. The reality is what it is. So I hope that in your second part you can explain how you will give content to those things that you raised in that annex to Galicia's Public Transport Plan, which is not collected in the norm, where you determine the issues that, at least, must collect. And in those matters which, at least, must collect, none of which you have raised. So, nothing else, thank you very much, and I hope you'll be able to clarify some of these issues.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u8	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, this consists of the so-called effectiveness of your government, the Government Feijóo. The People's Group has to go to the rescue to try to fix in a chauffeur way the disguise caused by an incompetent government that is not even able to provide legal certainty with the legislation it approves. The background knows them: a law that passed the People's Party; a resolution that developed that law, which passed the People's Party; a remedy that presented the National Competition Commission when it was also ruling in Madrid the People's Party; and a ruling by the Supreme Court that annulled that resolution which basically consisted of the extension for ten years of 129 public transport concessions. In short, you've had months to solve the problem of extensions, concessions and you haven't done anything. They came last hour with a law and a resolution. And despite warnings of illegality, Counselor, seven years have passed without doing anything. Let me read a text to you because I think it's very enlightening. I'll make a textual reading: "Junta is deceiving transport companies with an automatic and hasty expansion of concessions, by means of a law that will have a legal contraindication of higher-ranking standards imminently, and we suppose by transferring them to representative agents in this sector that this is the solution to ensure the survival of the future concessions in the coming years. The German Government is aware of this contradiction; it is not in vain that the last single provision regulates the eventual exigencies of heritage responsibility of the Galician Union if, by higher-ranking rules or judicial decisions, the concessions extended by this project are settled in advance if they become law. Why should this forecast be included? If the German Government is fully confident of the viability of this norm and therefore of the extension of regular transport concessions, what is the reason for including a provision of this content where it excludes responsibilities to invalidate the content of the law? The reason is obvious: you are aware of the legal doubts about this chosen option for extension of concessions." Look, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen of the Popular Group, I have just given textual reading to the considerations made by the BNG in 2009 to the draft law for the modernization of Galician public transport sector. So they knew that law and resolution that developed it was fraudulent. They knew they were cheating, to the point of shielding Galician Union in the face of possible illegalization of that law, exempting it from heritage responsibility. So you were warned. Seven years have passed and they have done nothing to resolve the situation and, if it were little, after the Supreme's judgment, the Counsellor – here present – continued to miss the truth saying that the sentence would have no consequences. Even, as always, he said it was the fault of cha cha tea, or, rather, said it was the fault of the Bipartite. And now you have to go to the People's Group to go to the rescue, to try to solve in a fun way that fancy guy. Headmaster, ladies and gentlemen, because it is surprising that this law has to be introduced by the People's Group rather than by the Government itself. If judicial annulment was against an act by the Government in use of its administrative and executive powers, the logic is that it is the Government itself who formulates that initiative. In a sense, because, in addition, they skip all pre-emptive proceedings, because the logical reason is that this law was accompanied by official reports of the bodies that manage transport, of the departments concerned, such as education, advisory bodies or of a legal report that endorses this transitional solution as correct. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as well as resorting to an emergency procedure, thus limiting the possibility of a reading put in this Parliament. And ultimately, because in this Act of updating Galician public transport there is absolutely nothing. The only thing you're looking for is to shield up to 2019 the services that have been done for justice, while all duties remain for the next Government when it is established that the Union has to draw up an integral plan for public transport before the summer of 2018. Look, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, in that you are truly experts, in laying down other duties that you have been unable to perform, because we trust that you are not responsible for developing and equipping the plan with real content after such a demonstration of incompetence. Anticipals, as far as this future plan is concerned, which in the face of the 2009 chapuza attempt to extend a transport model based on concessions of decades ago, based on Galicia's mobility needs of 40 years ago, will defend a model that meets the real mobility needs of Galicia today. In this sense, addressing a comprehensive public transport plan in Galicia means looking for a real integration of all modes of transport, studying its interoperability and complementarity, regardless of whether the Administration holds it. At this point, for example, there are railway services in Galicia that have received important investments that cannot be ignored in a public transport plan, even claiming competition over them for integrals in a single intermodal network throughout Galicia. But in any case, there will be an opportunity to discuss these issues in the future, because now what we are talking about is to arbitrate an emergency solution to the problem that you have created. In that sense – and only in that sense – the People's Group gentlemen, we can agree that the main thing now is to ensure a transitional regime, because the priority is that people who use road transport continue to have the service. And the solution of giving transitory to what was cancelled while the plan was not approved is the only possible option given the circumstances, given the disguise caused by you. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Galician Union, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, in view of their incompetence, our responsibility. As a matter of responsibility, because the priority is that road transport users continue to have service, we are not going to impede taking into account this bill, as far as we are extremely critical of the chaotic management of the Galician board, which has provoked this disguise, and how much we do not share its model of public transport, and that will shape it in form when the debate of Galician public transport plan is under way. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Jorquera. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Counsellor, good morning to all. At the plenary meeting on 26 and 27 April 2016 we discussed a motion by the Socialist Group on the new rules to be promoted by the Galician Transport Board in order to substantiate the petition of the same group discussed on 12 and 13 April 2016 on the Supreme Court ruling, which annuls the extension of 129 public transport concessions. The text of the Socialist Group motion contained two points as motions for resolutions: firstly, to draw up a transitional and urgent standard to avoid prejudices caused by the ruling declaring null and void the extensions of public road passenger concessions in Galicia. And, secondly, in parallel, in collaboration and dialogue with the transport sector and with the municipalities, to develop a new mobility law in Galicia which incorporates a new transport map and promotes the presence of transport in the Greek countryside to ensure mobility of people and the maintenance of business fabric in rural areas. In the intervention of this spokesman, as author of the motion, I explained the intent of the motion for a resolution with only two points. The aim was to synthesize the present and future needs of road passenger transport in Galicia. In point 1, the development of an urgent rule guaranteeing services, reconciles the general interest and that of the concessionaires in respect of the Supreme's judgment and in the framework of Community Regulation 1370/2007. In the second point – and in parallel to point 1 – we reflect the imperative need to address already the long process that defines the sustainable mobility model to drive in our country. All opposition groups understood the intent of the proposal and supported it. The People's Group doesn't. I don't know if they understand it, I don't know if they wanted to understand it, or if their sovereignty and prepotence prevented them from supporting it. I don't know, what if I do know – it's everybody, we can check it – is that seeing this bill that the People's Party presents to us its degree of inconsistency undermines the spook. We're not going to look at the text of the bill that they present to us, time will have to do it in the amendment process; today we only decide to take it into consideration. But I cannot ignore the incongruence of the People's Group by voting against the motion and presenting this text. Let us present this proposal for urgent measures on the basis of urgency – legally –: "The Supreme's judgment requires measures to guarantee the provision of the public transport service in Galicia with the maximum guarantees and, of course, with the highest legal certainty, in accordance with Community rules". As my grandmother would say, dearest to point 1 of our motion that you voted against. Article 2.3, second paragraph of the bill also states: "The first public transport plan in Galicia shall be adopted within twenty-one months of the entry into force of this law". Clicked on point 2 of the motion that you also voted against. With the vote against the motion and the presentation of this text, the People's Party can and must be accused of plagiarism and misappropriation. The degree of political transvestition that you stage on this issue is pathetic, as pathetic results in the degree of irresponsibility in the exercise throughout the process by the responsible transport advisor. Let's remember. On 17 March 2016 the Supreme Court issued a judgment annulling the massive extension of road passenger transport concessions in Galicia. The judgment is clear and round, annuls the judgment in favour of concessions issued by the High Court of Justice of Galicia; annuls the resolution of the Environmental Adviser on 26 February 2010, in which the massive extension took place; and fails against the resolution of the Environmental Council on 22 June 2010, based on rulings of the People's Party's Government. And as we discussed this, while this was present in the sector and in society, what was the Counsellor's going on? I was walking to the biosbards, as we say in the countryside. In the face of such a serious fact as this, 90% of the concessions in legality, with serious consequences for the road passenger transport sector and for the interurban mobility of our country, expressed a worrying desire and passivity, and even alarming incompetence. He actively refused to exercise his responsibilities as counsellor with Mr. Feijóo's passive convolence. He did not appear voluntarily to account for the government's position on the complicated, even complex, situation in which public transport was found, regular, permanent, of people of general use by roads in Galicia. Nor to offer rigor and a certain amount of tranquility to a sector in uncertainty. He didn't even bring together the political groups, even the voices and voices, to explain to them what the situation was. He did not present in this House his own request, he came forced, uncomfortable, to the defensive, obliged by the initiatives of the opposition groups. He came to this House to use artifacts and excuses to try to justify that Mr. Feijóo's governments acted legally. He blamed the Bipartite, blamed the Supreme Court's sentence, shielded himself from the annulment of the High Court of Justice of Galicia. Everything less self-critical, and everything less solutions. And reality has left us without trenches or parapets. Judgment 585/2016, of the Supreme Court, discovers the counsellor's plots and vaguities with clarity and force; it does not give rise to interpretations. It is well founded that Mr Feijóo's Government has violated European Regulation 1370/2007 of 23 October 2007 on public rail and road passenger transport services by means of a resolution by the Directorate-General for Mobility of the Council for the Environment of Galicia of 26 February 2010, in which concessions for the carriage of passengers by road from Galicia were unduly extended for ten years. This is the reality that reveals the shortcomings of this transport council: ineffectiveness, inefficiency and passivity, which is reflected in the balance of management of this legislation. The removal of railway lines and stops of medium distance transport, the removal of routes and frequencies of public transport of passengers by road; we continue without airport coordination, without progress in the studies of the deployment of light meters; no reality in proximity train, passivity in the implementation of new modes of transport; they have reduced metropolitan transport to the condition of tariff subsidies; disconnection with the goods transport sector, without real deployment of intermodality, a word, a concept often invoked by you, as so many have been ignored in practice. This is the balance of two laws of the People's Party governments. In the matter of transport, the Supreme's sentence engraves it: no legal extensions, no modernization of the fleet, no better interurban services, no new mobility law, no concession competition. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, will you correct your group's position on what you voted on the motion? I suppose so. Of course, the Socialist Group will maintain coherence by voting in favour of taking this bill into consideration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u12	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Replica, Mr. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful, of course, to the speakers who preceded me in the use of the word and have announced the vote in favour, as well as the non-intervention of this consideration. I said, at the end of the first intervention, that in this second intervention, we would explain the content and scope of the third and last article of this bill, which we are discussing, and at this point, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to stick to, because we would be short of our duty to go to the important point, which is what really matters to this sector, and not to what some of you say that seems – let me tell you without accuracy of any class – that the solution to this subject matters more very little, almost nothing or directly nothing. A vocabulary because it must already belong to the judiciary, because it already judges and so-called judgment, others because they must believe a sort of Matrix or Chosen Ones, or Messiahs who are in possession of absolute truth; if they paid attention, they would probably not have these doubts. And the Socialist Group, Mr Fernández, Mr Fernández's friend, was truly sympathetic, political transvestism, plagiarism and improper appropriation. That's where I'm leaving, better. He commented, ladies and gentlemen, that Article 3 of this bill begins by derogating Article 1 of Law 5/2009, which established the extension for ten years of these same services in exchange for undertaking modernisation commitments developed in the resolution of 26 February 2010 which would annul the Supreme Court. This reinforces the position of this legislative text in favor of the development of the new transport service model with maximum legal certainty for all actors involved and the guarantee of continuity of the public service affected by the given judicial failure. But the precept then enshrines the principle of continuity of the public service. This continuity will be voluntary for contractors, who will have to report their resignation within 15 days of the entry into force of the law. However, its contractual obligation is established for 12 months from the date of its resignation, following the wording of the regulation of the Land Transport Management Act for contracts that are being won. Finally, it provides for the administration to carry out direct adjudication under the Community Regulation itself. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill considers this continuity as a real opportunity to maintain the lines of modernization driven by Law 5/2009, implementing them in the following three years: the continuity of its participation and/or integration into the metropolitan transport plans and the model of zonal tariffs; the implementation of the system of aid for online exploitation with the work that has been carried out by the Council of Galicia in recent years, and the maintenance of the commitment to progressively integrate into the contracts of vehicles accessible to people with reduced mobility. These three elements are of great relevance to the modernization of the public transport system and its perception by users, who will have a more universal system, who will continue to enjoy policies to promote public transport in metropolitan transport areas and will see how in the coming months they will have a real-time transport information system. It also introduces provisions necessary to ensure the evolution and sectoral adaptation itself, and finally, ladies and gentlemen, this bill provides for the rules for the invitation to tender for services of temporarily limited duration, such as those of beaches provided in the summer, by establishing a very simple procedure for the recruitment of services, which is no other than that of direct taxation provided for in the Community regulation I mentioned earlier. And to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that the rush to ensure the continuity of these services incorporated into the title of the law itself will determine its immediate entry into force once it has completed the procedure laid down in this House's Rules of Procedure, and after the debate of the whole, approval and subsequent publication in the Official Journal of Galicia, not foreseeing, then, no period of holiday lei. And finally, as my intervention had begun: ensuring the provision of public transport services to all users with all guarantees and maximum legal certainty for all operators is the end of this bill. We therefore hope for your favourable vote, that of all, if possible, even if it seems not today, and your constructive contributions to this text that we propose with the aim that we among all groups be able to put an appropriate and urgent solution to a serious problem, a serious problem, ladies and gentlemen, which puts at serious risk thousands of people working in a key sector for the economy of Galicia and that we have an obligation to protect. Nothing else and thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u14	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. Debate taken into consideration of the Proposal for a Law, to present to the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, for which the economic concert of Galicia is approved
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u15	For the presentation of the bill, Mr. Jorquera has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. As of today, 113 years ago, he was born in Ourense Alexandre Bóveda. If Castelao was the great social referent of Galeguism, Bóveda was, in his own words of Castelao, his engine of explosion. For Bóveda nationalism was the noun, the vertebrate element of his thought. That ethical and political commitment led him to surrender his life to Galicia, to assume his martyrdom as a contribution to the country. He himself left it to say in his will: "My death will serve to achieve followers of the Greek cause, a good that even after death I will do to our land." For Boveda nationalism was much more than an identity issue. To talk about Galicia was to talk about the progress and well-being of the Greek people. He always took part from the bottom, always had emancipation of the people in his thought and action. That's why Bóveda proposed as a German nationalism today the creation of a German national bank so that our savings will not emit and contribute to our collective progress. Boveda showed that the tax relations between Galicia and the Spanish state were discriminatory for the country, and therefore defended as today's Greek nationalism that Galicia had its own tax administration, that Galicia had its own estate, so that the money from the taxes we paid for the Greeks and the Greeks would not be emigrated and put to the service of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what this bill is about. This initiative proposes that Galicia have a new financing system that exceeds the very limited fiscal and financial autonomy of the current model. We propose a model in which Galicia exercises full responsibility in tax matters, where the Welsh farm manages and collects all taxes borne in Galicia, and we propose that Galicia have full decision-making capacity over them. This bill establishes a new financing agreement for Galicia based on transparency, self-responsibility and belief in the country's capabilities. Finally, the key issues in the debate on the financing system. If we talk about transparency and self-responsibility, is it logical that a model such as the current one, in which it is basically the State that comes up despite the fact that the management of the main public services is transferred to autonomous communities? Wouldn't it be more logical and transparent to self-responsibility? We know what the consequences of the current model are, condemning our country to a chronic dependence on increasingly insufficient State transfers, which is used by the Central Government to dictate cuts. Centralization, the annulment of the fiscal and financial autonomy of the autonomous communities was the way that the central government now used in functions to impose its antisocial model, because in the Spanish State social expenditure is mainly resident in the autonomous communities. So we propose to reverse the terms of the relationship, to establish a relationship from top to bottom instead of the current relationship from top to bottom. We therefore propose that Galicia have full fiscal responsibility and that Galicia be the one who transfers the corresponding amount to the State to contribute to the services managed by the Central Administration. There are voices that warn against the generalization of the concert, because they don't worry, I'm telling you to alert the generalization of the concert, that they don't worry, BNG is not proposing its generalization. We are not the ones who invent coffee for all, a coffee for all, by the way, that is not in the Constitution, nor does it refer to the system of financing of autonomous communities; we are a nation, we are a historic nationality in constitutional terms – if you prefer this term –. We need and we have full right to a model that ensures our full fiscal capacity. There are voices also warning that it is not appropriate to open the debate now on the financing model, because I know there is no possibility of allocating more resources, I know there are other autonomous communities that want more, and I know there can be no more for all. So you think, for example, Mr. President of the Board, Mr. Feijóo, and clearly expressed it the last time we asked him about this question, I quote, textually: "I don't think it's very smart to start a new funding system when the revenues of public administrations are falling free." That's what he said. Thanks to this answer, therefore, we know that what we're getting out of the crisis is the stampie timo, because according to the president of the Galician Union, the revenue of the administrations is on the loose, although now that there are elections, the People's Party promises new tax cuts. But he also added, and I still quote textually: "I refuse to start a financing process with the independentist threat of Catalonia, with the independentist threat of Navarre, and now with those confluences, fluent or I don't know what they speak in the Senate between those of Podemos and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party." I am quoting the words of Mr Feijó the last time we asked him about this. In other words, we had a model of funding that had to be reviewed by law before December 2014, a model – in the words of the president of the Galician Union himself – incorrect, unfair, which does not finance the actual cost of services, but as in Catalonia Mr. Puigdemont and Mrs. Barkos in Navarra is president, and Mr. Feijóo does not know what they are talking about in the Senate between the Podemos and the PSOE, in Galicia we have to take over. For Mr Feijóo, the German Government cannot take the initiative, its only role is to be a critical spectator of what others say or propose. For those who think it is not appropriate to open the debate now on the financing model, because I know that there is no possibility of signing more resources and other autonomous communities want more and there can be no more for all, in view of those who think so, we say that the question is not how much one community receives from another, the question, the underlying problem is the magnitude of the resources that the Central State reserves for you. A magnitude in all excessive light, when the management of the main public services is transferred, and which also explains why the State wants to reserve for itself the monopoly of the management and collection of the main taxes. Finally, there are voices that do not believe in the country's capabilities, voices that say that this model that defends the BNG Parliamentary Group through this bill would be detrimental to our country, because we have no capacity to generate tax resources so that Galicia can live on its own. They ignore, who claim this, that a model of fiscal sovereignty is fully and absolutely compatible with the mechanisms that address the territorial inequalities in the Spanish State. They ignore that a model of fiscal sovereignty is compatible with the mechanisms correcting inequalities. But besides, it's a fallacy that Galicia doesn't have the ability to generate tax resources to live for itself. To support this fallacy, it is counted as alleged solidarity by the State to Social Security, tell us that Galicia would have no money to pay pensions, ignoring that contributions are costed through social contributions, are rights acquired by workers after years and years of contributions, and therefore are not part of the tax flows between the State and a territory, or are there not thousands and thousands of returned immigrants receiving pensions from Switzerland or Germany, by setting an example? In order to support this fallacy, Galicia's tax capacity is calculated by referring only to the percentages handed over by IRPF, VAT and special taxes that are part of the current system of autonomous financing, or either to sustain this fallacy if it is calculated whether Galicia's tax capacity is calculated by referring to the tax balances invented by Mr. Montoro, a balance called to present us a reverse world, minimizing the benefits of Madrid's capitality effect, with the clear intention to reinforce the centralist conception of the State and to project the false image of a Galicia would benefit from state solidarity. But if we calculate everything the state collects in Galicia by all the tax concepts, that's much more than it then transfers us through autonomic financing systems. In 2007, the last year of the previous economic cycle, the State collected tax resources in Galicia for EUR 12,504 million, while Galicia obtained EUR 8,129 million from the system of self-financing; even in the current crisis the resources generated in Galicia exceed more than EUR 3,000 million from those obtained by Galicia through the system of self-financing. That's Galicia's real tax capacity, that's our country's real tax capacity. We generate resources far greater than the State transfers to us through the system of self-financing. Moreover, while charging the part that corresponds to us to sustain the services managed by the State, and even imputing the direct investments of the State in Galicia through the general budgets of the State that are not, as is evident, part of the system of autonomous financing, the data show that Galicia is not fiscally deficient. Look, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal includes a proposal that is as important, as relevant to our country as the full incorporation of corporate tax into our financing system, so that companies operating in Galicia pay tribute to the Greek farm for the economic activity generated in our country. Does it make sense that in the Basque Country and Navarre all companies are taxed by companies for the part of economic activity generated in these territories, including the Greek companies, and instead in Galicia even companies with headquarters in Galicia or whose main production centres in Galicia are not taxed here, but are taxed in Madrid?, do you mean, gentlemen? See, in 2014, the last liquidated exercise, the collection of corporate tax in the Basque Country exceeded 1,159 million euros, and Galicia cannot afford the luxury that companies such as Index, Citroën or Union Fenosa pay their taxes in Madrid, without any impact on the Welsh Fair, because Citroën – our main exporting company – pays its taxes in Madrid, the People's Group's Lords, because Union Fenosa – though it is profiting from exploiting our country's natural resources – pays its taxes in Madrid, the People's Group's Lords. Look, the territorialization of corporate tax would bring well over EUR 1 billion a year to our Fairy, almost twice as much of the cuts in education and culture since Mr Feijóo ruled this country. Only in 2014 did Indidex pay €440 million for corporate tax in Madrid, not here, despite having its headquarters in Artexo. That's why we propose the full territorialization of corporate tax, so that the economic activity generated by the companies operating in Galicia will have an impact on our farm. Ladies and gentlemen, I already have a reminder, there is a saying that he says, "Don't give me a fish, give me a cane and let me fish them." That's what we want with our proposal, to truncate dependency relationships, to equip our country with the tools so that the tax resources generated in Galicia can be used to create wealth and employment in our territory, so that, ultimately, as Bóveda defended, the money from the taxes that we pay for the Greeks does not emigrate and is put to the service of the country; that's why we call for support for this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u17	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u18	Thank you, President. Well, I think it was a brilliant exhibition, Mr. Jorquera. The need for that economic sovereignty was made absolutely clear, because without economic sovereignty there is no sovereignty of the people. People need to be able to rule, and to that end they need to be able to pick up and decide what they do with the errand. We're talking about sovereignty, something that the People's Party might understand today, and the Socialist Party too, depending on the loss of sovereignty of the Spanish State in relation to Europe. We see how the states of the European Union lose sovereignty according to the sovereignty of the European Union itself and how the Troica marks the guidelines they have to follow. And, therefore, the people are no longer the most orderly, but they order institutions that have not even been democratically elected by the people of Europe. That is why I hope that today the People's Party and the Socialist Party will understand that this country to move forward, this country to grow needs to have that economic sovereignty in order to be able to aspire to self-government. Ivan Gordillo, a member of the Taifa Seminary, explains how the promotion of liberalisation and the prominence of the private sector in economic development, together with the control of inflation and the defence of the financial sector, define the interests of the European Union and the common currency project. Economic and monetary integration favored the capital of the central European countries, which needed territories to produce at low cost and close to the parent companies, while opening up new markets to financial capital, so that they would also give credit to these southern countries, where their workers and workers would hyper-exploit. The crisis has shown that European institutional and economic architecture, far from allowing rational management to cushion the consequences of the crisis, both the economics of the states and the population as a whole, has only been able to increase socio-economic damage and social inequality. The growth and stability pact has imposed austerity among the Member States of the European Union as the only economic policy that can be adopted, mainly affecting the reduction of public expenditure. And the ECB imposes a single monetary policy for the euro area as a whole, focusing on controlling inflation through the establishment of interest rates. These recessions in economic matters imply the progressive privatization and dismantling of the increasingly resourceful public sector, both of the collective heritage and of social rights, and a constant reduction in wages and labour precariousness through the so-called "flexibility". The states no longer have their own monetary policy, which is determined by the ECB, and competition between countries in tax matters has ended up as the only tool used to direct industrial policy. The Treaty of Lisbon provides the European Union with greater legal powers to sign international agreements at Community level, exacerbating the loss of state sovereignty. This neoliberal logic is accentuated by the explanation of Troica's austeri revenues, causing greater economic paralysis, which again increases the deficit and public debt to finance it. Poverty, inequality and social divide are the consequences. States have lost monetary and economic sovereignty, seeing limited actions they can perform to recover their economy; it's enough as an example of Greece. It is therefore not a technical, economic, accounting or legal-legal problem, but a political and democratic conflict over the ordination of society, its institutions and the capacity for self-government of states. In the study of self-financing reform and its impact in Galicia, Professor Álvarez Corbacho analyses financial autonomy and fiscal responsibility as two basic aspects of territorial farms, which are based on self-government capacity. Firstly, financial autonomy and fiscal responsibility are relevant economic variables that directly affect self-government jurisdiction. Financial autonomy is supposed to be able to increase or decrease the volume of the budget, decide the structure of the expenditure and modify the distributive pattern of tax charges. Tax liability requires making these decisions explicit and politically assume their consequences. To defend financial autonomy is to recognize that there are economic, social, historical and cultural differences that affect the preferences of citizenship and its adjustment between supply and demand for public services. When there is financial autonomy and fiscal responsibility, budgetary problems are resolved between government and citizenship, not claiming more income from the central estate. Increasing financial autonomy is the fiscal responsibility of territorial administrations, and it is also necessary to make the allocation of public resources more efficient. Increasing financial autonomy and fiscal responsibility reduces opportunities to use public budgets as instruments of influence and political control. In 2010, President Feijóo himself declared in the press that the Government of Greece was going to bring two litigation-administrative remedies against the State administration, to claim the payment of the historical debt, which the Union was currently making at 1,383 million euros. Discrimination that affects the lives of all Greeks. Thus, the main way of financing the municipalities is the income that the State makes to them monthly, but the Greek municipalities are penalized by a financing system that obviously factors such as dispersion and population ageing, which affect the intensification of the provision of services. That's why now Mr Feijóo, on the eve of the elections, seems to be interested in putting this on the table to negotiate a new funding. In absolute numbers, deliveries to the account that Fairy will advance to the Greek municipalities amount to 571.25 million, with a cut of 11.6 million on the advance that the Ministry gave them a year ago. According to statements quoted by President Núñez Feijóo, the tax measures taken by the State Administration have diminished Galician investment capacities. "We would not defend," said the president, "the general interests of the Greeks if we looked elsewhere." So today they have the opportunity not to look elsewhere and claim that financial autonomy that Mr Feijóo claims nothing but in the media and exclusively in electoral periods. Without it being a precedent, I therefore agree with the President that Galicia needs an economic concert with the State which enables self-government. I hope that Spanish nationalists, sensitive to the loss of state autonomy to the European Union, are also sensitive to the need for fiscal autonomy for Galicia. Because, like the State, one cannot govern a country, one cannot decide what policies to apply in one country, one cannot bet on by the productive sectors of a country, if you do not have that financial and fiscal autonomy, which allows you to decide how budgets are used and how they are distributed and invested. I therefore hope that in that sensitivity which I now understand they have with regard to the need for self-government and sovereignty of the people will vote in favour of the sovereignty of the Galician people and vote in favour of this economic concert. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u20	Good morning to all of you. We are going to support the consideration of this bill, because we fully agree with the objectives of this bill, we agree with the explanatory statement made here by Mr. Jorquera and we also agree in his explanation of what these tax balances are looking for that show Galicia as a subsidized dependent nation, although I – let me tell you that even today – believe that it is not even a question of whether the tax balance is positive or negative, or whether we have a impoverished economy, because in such a case that would be largely due to these financing systems, these dependency systems. It is not a question of whether today the per capita income of Galicia is currently below the state average, but it is about adopting all the instruments for this country to develop its economic capacities. And for that, in our opinion, fiscal sovereignty is an indispensable tool. The system proposed by the Galego Nationalist Block does not eliminate the mechanisms of solidarity, but it reverses the operation of the model, increasing the responsibility of each Administration. The application of an autonomous fiscal policy can also be an engine for the country's economic development, which emerges from the current situation of sub-alternity. The new approach to the financing needs of Galicia must be based on an inverse order that has so far been supporting the People's Party in Galicia's Union, away from the assumption of a tax system in the single Spanish State, which provides us with resources based on common rules of distribution for all territorial institutions, to design – as I think it is the goal of the Galician Nationalist Block with this initiative – a model of public housing with own tax bases based on our reality, enabling us to generate and collect public income from Galicia and to overcome the situation of constant economic weight loss that has led us to the logic of the current economic and fiscal model. The current framework is a structured design, where at the same time it is intended to give in to political autonomy, but maintaining a strict unitary control of public economic resources; where a minimum degree of financial autonomy is not possible to seek to meet public expenditure, considered socially desired for this country. It is necessary to build on new plans, inspired by Galicia's fiscal sovereignty, based on a full tax autonomy; to break up with the mechanisms that guarantee subordination, and the key to the question we believe that it is whether or not to have the power of action on the sources of genuine resources of political power, which are the power to establish and collect taxes and other tax modalities. The tax system is a decisive tool for an endogenous development strategy of the potential of a country like ours, that's for the social orientation of economic policy, that is, for the distribution of society's well-being. The problem is not to get a sufficient financing model, but to have the tax scales needed to generate development. The key is to turn the course of a Galicia that is losing weight within the state in all major magnitudes, whether GDP, whether employment, or demographics... in all these magnitudes Galicia in this period of the state of autonomy is losing weight continuously. And if you don't have the indispensable fiscal power, without handling these figures and tax sources, it seems unlikely to reverse this trend. In order to stimulate productive investment, to deter speculative operations, to increase tax pressure in different sectors, to redistribute income and wealth, to provide social services, this autonomy and fiscal sovereignty are essential. This is at the heart of the matter, not the modality and the content of the public funds that sovereignly decides to transfer the State, which is the only political power now. And regardless of what these tax balances say, with the methodologies chosen to demonstrate what is to be demonstrated, that we deliberately live subsidized – today we are not going to enter that issue – we accept that Galicia currently has a impoverished economy – of course, thirty years after the implementation of this autonomic model and these financing systems – being a country with enough power to finance these policies. First of all, it must be said that this situation of impoverishment would be a consequence of the neoliberal economy, which will generate an unequal development dynamic, both socially and sectorally and territorially. And secondly, a unitary Spanish state that exacerbates and increases that congenital dynamic of the economic system, rather than counter-restaurant and counter-pesala. And the combined action of these two issues makes it a dynamic of extraversion of the economy of Greek society, so a demographic, economical dynamic of growth out there. Accepting what he said, accepting that we have a impoverished economy, which we do not actually accept – as Mr. Jorquera well explained – but even if this was so, what it would accomplish is not to perpetuate such a situation. And if fiscal dependence generates more fiscal and economic dependence, greater fiscal autonomy and even fiscal sovereignty would be essential tools to reverse this situation. This proposal we believe would allow Galicia to exercise fiscal sovereignty, which would involve the territorialization of taxes and the regulatory and management capacity of taxes. And this is compatible with the redistributive mechanisms; redistribution should not be confused with fiscal sovereignty, it is insolidary and it is the fiscal policy that the People's Party has been making these years, bringing back to the humblest people, to the workers, the effects of the crisis. Insolidary is that those who have - and they have more and more - pay less and less taxes, and those who have less and less pay more and more taxes, which is what you have systematically been doing with your tax reforms. You just published some data recently about the good functioning of Galicia's collection in the early months of the year, and what is the figure that comes from the increase in Galicia's collection this year? IVE, with 11% increase. It's obvious, indirect taxes that are the ones that record the most working classes, the humble people, and that are contrary to a progressive and fair system; those policies, which you do, are indeed insolidary. For us – as Mr Jorquera has well explained – the approach must be reversed, we must design for Galicia a model of our own public estate, only unchallenged in a state tax system, which can be included in the European framework, but which is beyond the economic delay compared to what has confined us to the logic of the prevailing economic and fiscal model. A formula of congruent tax power with a composite model of state, unique and adapted to a multinational reality; unless the multinationality of that state's socio-political nature is denied, it is therefore necessary to make the fiscal suit appropriate to the morphology of that social body. And what is the balance of political management on such an important issue as the financing system for this country of Mr Feijóo? In the face of an enormous drop in state transfers, which have cost many sufferings to Welsh citizenship, with a system of clearly prejudicial financing for Galicia, because each time it approaches the tendency of per capita spending that harms a dispersed, aging and population-loss nation, what was Mr. Feijó's reaction to a transcendental problem for the country? Subjection and lack of full political initiative, submission and lack of political initiative!, the same submission as Mr Rajoy to the loss of political and economic sovereignty before the troika: zero, we must be good because we live on the solidarity of the state; and we say no. As with the local financing system, where Galicia is clearly damaged when, for example, a Greek council receives an average of EUR 209 per inhabitant and one from Madrid, for example, 344. This was done by Mr Feijóo in the years in which he ruled, in the years in which Galicia lost weight within the state. If Galicia was 6% of the State's employment when he began to rule Mr. Feijóo, today it is 5.4; if he had a weight of GDP, today it is less weight; if he had a demographic weight, today it is less weight. And that's not disconnected from this question proposed by the People's Party. So we will support this proposal and hope that this will serve at least so that the groups can decide on such a transcendent issue for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u21	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mr Santín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u22	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Today the BNG brings to this Parliament a bill that seeks Galicia to have a financing system similar to that of the Basque Country and Navarre. The one known as a funding regime especially that in the Basque Country has its realization through the economic concert and in Navarre through the economic convention. This second formula – the one of the agreement – is the one that BNG proposes to Galicia in its bill. We, the Socialist Group, agree with the BNG that the current model of funding for autonomous communities, whose latest reform dates from the end of 2009, is today insufficient to meet Galicia's needs in terms of basic services for citizenship, such as health, education or social services. There are also basic sectors that need public support and incentives to improve their potential and that with the current financing system cannot be covered. To sum up, we agree with the BNG that Galicia needs to receive more resources from the state. That is why the Socialist Group has long demanded a new system of autonomous financing from this Parliament. But what is proposed here today by the BNG is a model change, and in order to be able to position ourselves and analyze what this model change implies, we focus on three issues. The first, the legality or the law fits in our legal order of this bill. Second, the historical rights of those who emulate these regimes of the Basque Country and Navarre. And thirdly, the economic profitability of what this system is going to expect from BNG. Starting with the first, it fits into our legal order, the question that we have to say, can this Parliament approve this economic concert between the Autonomous Community of Galicia in accordance with the provisions of this law? Well, if we go to our Magnum Charter, in the first additional provision, it says that the Constitution covers and respects the historical rights of the outer territories. The second point also makes it clear that the general update of the previous regime will be carried out, in its case, within the framework of the Constitution and the statutes of autonomy. So in order to do something like what the BNG proposes, it could only be done with respect to historical rights and always within the framework of the Constitution and our Statute of Self-Government. If we understand the literal content of the Constitution, it seems that only the outer territories could enjoy this special regime. And if we turn to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia, in its title where reference is made to the economy and to the farm, in Article 44 of the Act of our Autonomous Community, we have constituted: first, the performance rights of taxes imposed by the Community itself; second, the yields of taxes handed down by the State, that is to say, refers to state taxes which are transferred; third, a percentage of participation in the total State by direct and indirect taxes, including tax monopolies – also here refers our Statute to state taxes–; then, the yield of its own rates; five, the special contributions established by the Autonomous Community in the regime of its powers; six, the rechargings on state taxes; seven, if so, the revenue from the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, other allocations from State budgets; and, from there, other incomes, etc., as the issuance of state taxes. For all this, it seems difficult to fit this law in our legal system. With regard to the second question, historical rights from the point of view of these rights of the Basque Country and Navarre must be pointed out that only the Basque territories and the Kingdom of Navarre – true to Felipe V – have continued to maintain their peculiarities outside: tax and own monetary regime, customs, exemption from military service, etc.; that again sparked conflicts in the contemporary age as a result of the carlist wars. After the Third Carlist War, through the Madrid Law of 21 June 1876, signed by King Alfonso XII, the forums were unilaterally derogated, except for tax and tax specialties. These peculiarities remained with various alternatives until their reform as autonomy under the 1978 Constitution. With the transition the Spanish Constitution recognized the vigil of historical rights and drafted the vigil statutes of autonomy: the Basque, in 1979, and the improvement of the special regime of Navarre, in 1982. On the other hand, in Galicia it doesn't seem that we're meeting in the same case, except in relation to our civil rights, which has little to do with the prosecutor and tax collector. At the third point – and for me, of course, the most important, we should dedicate to it – is whether it is profitable in economic terms for Galicia this model change proposed by the BNG. I believe that none of us escapes – we understand it – that the economic situation in Galicia is not the same as in the Basque Country or Navarre. I'm going to refresh some of the data we all know in this House, the GDP in Galicia last year was €55.701 million; that in Navarra, €18.246 million; and that in the Basque Country, €65.934 million. These figures hardly say anything, and we have to try to homogenize them, and a way of homogenizing them – with all the problems I may have and those I am aware of – can be GDP per inhabitant. If we turn these figures into GDP per inhabitant we have that in Galicia it would be of €20,495 per inhabitant/year; Navarra, €28,494 per inhabitant/year; and Basque Country, €30,115 per inhabitant/year. It can be observed that the same tax on collection capacity is in Navarra 39% higher than in Galicia and the Basque Country 47% higher than in Galicia; or otherwise, with the same tax pressure in Navarra there would be 39% more and in the Basque Country 47% more. This should make you think that the Basque quota system or the Navarro concert may not be economically beneficial to Galicia and could bring us less collection. Or in other words, if we apply the economic concert in Galicia, we could have to stay with the 100 per cent collected in Galicia, and in addition to this 100 per cent we don't get to pay for all the expenses of our Autonomous Community; and according to some study, this can be estimated at between EUR 1,000 and 1,500 million. But we would also have to face common costs – such as Defence, Foreign Affairs or the Crown – that have to blow both the Basque Country and Navarre; in the case of the Basque Country we would be talking about 6.24 of the collection and in the case of Navarra of 1.8. On its day this percentage was based on the weight of the Basque economy in the Spanish GDP and the weight of the navarre economy in the Spanish GDP. And it applies in view of the disbursement made by the Central Government in each part of its exclusive competition, but, as annual calculations are required, provisional liquidations must be made until the end of the period. If we use another criterion of what has been said here, I don't like it very much either, and I'm just going to quote it – they are data that are there, I'm not doing any valuation – I'm talking about tax balances, we have to absolutely – and I charge the word absolute terms – Andalusia would be the most benefited Community of this fiscal balance and with a surplus of EUR 8,531 million, 6.02 % of its GDP; but the second would be Galicia, with 3,946 million, 7.21 % of its GDP. I repeat, I'm not going to make an assessment, but it's data that we have to take into account. What difference would it make to us, our Community, the new system that BNG proposes? It was mainly three important differences with regard to what we now have: the first, Junta would be responsible for directly collecting all taxes in Galicia; the second, tax inspection would not be by the Tax Agency but by the Atriga; and the third, Galicia would have powers to approve tax legislation in almost all taxes, such as the IRPF or companies. In VAT and special taxes – like alcohol and hydrocarbons – they cannot depart from the state, something which certainly also seems to be intended for this initiative. This would force us, if we were to move forward with this initiative, to assume also a number of competences that would lead, for example, to assume everything that the Tax Agency is doing would involve material and human resources that we would have to assume. If we fail to take on these human resources, for example, the training of these personnel would also lead to cost and adaptation. For all this we, the Socialist Group, who are – I repeat – seriously analyzing – which I think is how this should be done, must bear in mind that this is an adventure that can be good for Galicia, but it can also be harmful. Therefore, we believe that if you have to do a serious and rigorous analysis, because if you couldn't do – as you say – a bread like a cake. So, we, as we're talking about taking a bill into consideration, are going to vote in favour of this bill, but also clarifying that all of these doubts will be resolved that we referred to in our initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. González Santín. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u24	We see that in the Socialist Group they are on adventure, because, apart from other things, I am quite frankly surprised, probably, to stage an agreement that is obvious to hear the two interventions, the two views that are on the quota system of the Socialist Group, which knows that clearly is harmful to Galicia, and that of the proposed group. And also AGE's, which we know supports the coupon when, as I will now try to argue, it would be the worst thing we could do. But welcome to the Socialist Group's adventure, which we already see... is in the permanent adventure. [[Applause]] Anyway, let's go over there. The system of the economic concert proposed by the Block basically consists of a community being financed by the taxes it collects and paying the Central Administration a container – which is called "cupo" – as a counterbalance for what the Central Administration spends on that community. This payment – which is interesting – does not depend on what that autonomous community has to do, therefore, on the level of income of people who live in each autonomous community, because the richer that autonomous community, as if paid a fixed coupon, the difference remains in the autonomous community, which, as we know from the experiences of the Basque and Navarro cup, practically does not contribute to the solidarity neither interpersonal nor interterritorial of the state as a whole. So more income from Autonomy, more financial capacity. And what do we now have with the constitutional exclusion of the Basque Country and Navarre? We have a system in which expenditure is defined, and therefore what each autonomous community receives, also with margins of normative autonomy in some taxes, basically defining what needs are, and, depending on the needs to ensure in the whole State equal basic health and educational services, according to those needs of the cost of providing these services, a transfer is made, which is therefore per capita, adjusted according to the population you have and the needs of that population, the specific needs of that population, and it is not a criterion of distribution per capita, as some want to go to that. It's an exceptional and unique system. The socialist rapporteur very well explained that it is a reminder of the medieval era. This is the first time that a constitution – that is the grandeur of our Constitution – recognizes something that has remained behind in all the advanced countries; it is an exception in the whole of comparative fiscal federalism. And if one reads, for example, as Mr. Arzalluz justified in the Constitution, about this pact, prior to the French Revolution itself, one gives a smile. It makes you smile that someone understands that this is a modern system of equity-based public service financing. Because it really makes a smile to remember as it said in the Constitutional Courts that "the fight against privileges" – understood in France – "essentials of the nobility in search of a law that embraces all citizens and is made by the will of all citizens clash when they enter Spain with the existing model of political structure prior to the French Revolution". The truth is, this is what we're talking about. In addition, the current system guarantees interpersonal equity, which is fundamental. People are fundamental, interpersonal equality. Data from the National Institute of Statistics for 2013: Galicia had a gross primary income, i.e. before paying taxes and before receiving subsidies or all types of benefits, by public administrations, of 85% of the state average; gross income available from households per capita – i.e. after the state covers taxes and after it gives all kinds of transfers and subsidies to persons – of every Greek, of 91.65%; i.e., 6% more spending capacity. This is the state of well-being, a state of well-being that is based, among other things, on a state-owned progressive tax system, which redistributes income by drawing less and more on those who have less and need it. This is our tax system. Not to mention Social Security. I know precisely that, as Mr. Jorquera has well said, social security is normally paid for contributions. But what is the debate in Spain today? What is the debate in order to guarantee the future of pensions? Well, get rid of tax sources. In Galicia there is a relationship between contributor and contributor to Social Security and worker of 1.25, far from the stability of the system, which would be in 2.5; in Spain it is in 2.2. I think it should be borne in mind that the social security system, therefore, the 800,000 pensioners from Greece, at some point in time, may have a dependence on Spain's joint tax system, I think, is not a minor issue. From the comparison, of course, that Mr. Jorquera did, I regret to say that they are the tales of the old woman, I am even older than the Catalans do, who have a high level, a little more level and sophistication. Compares what the State has to do in Galicia with which the State transfers to pay the services it performs in Galicia and forgets all the services that the State offers to the Greeks. There is no defence, no diplomatic service, no participation in the organs of the European Union, no insurance of social security, no public works. The State does nothing in Galicia, then, of course, compares the financing of specific services and excludes all the services that the State provides, of course, leads to this account saying that the State collects more in Galicia than it spends in Galicia. Well, it's not, because you don't do the math, of course, properly. And, as I said a moment ago, the common regime financing system is currently working well for Galicia. Núria Bosh's work, which is part of the Platform for Independence of Catalonia: Galicia, funding system in 2001, was about 100, with 113 funding; in 2009, after the reform that was made, which has already introduced some limitations, solidarity dropped to 110, but we are still above the Spanish average. It's logical. Why? Because Galicia is a community, as I said before – for gross income, before taxes and before transfers – that in terms of relative wealth – Galicia is rich, but in terms of relative wealth – is below the average of the state. The data you can do, the data you can give, from the extrapolation of the coupon, are already done. He spoke of 7% in terms of GDP, Professor Zubiri, who worked the most on these issues. He was talking about income losses for the Autonomous Community of around 3.8 GDP. And you'll understand that, if Galicia renounces with this coupon a 3.8 GDP income, because it's doing a very bad business. You say it doesn't generalize. Well, then, he particularises himself. At the entrance, you're supporting Catalonia's going to a tax pact similar to the coupon. And there are some calculations – here comes the adventurism of the PSOE – that Professor Fernández Leicega did with Professor Santiago Lago Peñas who say that the tax pact proposed to us Catalonia would take Galicia around 570 or 780 million euros a year. It is published at the Galician Economic Forum. Where the same authors also published the impact of Catalonia's independence – which supports the Bloc – which would in particular be between 800 and 1,100 million revenue for public self-financing per year. Well, as you'll understand, we don't share the valuation they make of the current system. You say in the explanatory statement that Galicia participates in the percentages of the collection of certain taxes. When we just discussed here the autonomic IRPF rate, which is 50% of the autonomic circuit rate, what federal state has this autonomic capacity? Germany, of course, not Austria or Australia. It looks more like countries that have a lot of financial autonomy, states how they can be United States, or how it can be Canada, being far from them, and being that interesting road. Each administration has a duty to pay the powers it exercises at each territorial level, and it is the responsibility of redistributing itself from the central level, to which I shall now return. Secondly, you have a contradiction in your proposal. They call for full sovereignty, but the principles, in the cup sent to us, the general principles, are first of all coordination, fiscal harmonisation and cooperation with the State, in accordance with the rules of this concert. Tax autonomy is to be able to vary rates, to vary tax pressure; therefore, it is contradictory to the principle of fiscal harmonisation. I further advocate the principles of fiscal competition to attract capital, to attract population. But having a coupon where all you do is harmonise and which, in addition, they don't give you accounts because you lose money, because you don't make much progress on the financial policy decision either. Finally, it is shown that you are working in the world to centralize the persecution of tax fraud. Switzerland is centralizing the fiscal inspection. In Spain, the OECD countries are trying to coordinate the pursuit of tax fraud. Tax administrations work more efficiently than economies of scale in a world where people move – and capitals still move more – if there is a centralization of what fiscal inspection is, and you're just what brings us to it is the opposite, a turn backwards, and that the autonomous community manages all taxes. And this, all of a sudden, also supports the Socialist Party, because they're on adventure; but the Socialist Party supports it, you have to take note. [[Applause]] In short, it is a profitable anachronism – for reasons I am not now going to list – for the Basque Country and for Navarre. The fundamental thing is that they do not contribute to the interpersonal solidarity of the welfare state of Spain. That is the fundamental reason – technical questions aside – such as the calculation of the EVF or the calculation of the deficit, and other issues that also influence that the balance is very favourable. But what suits Galicia is certainly not that. The BNG brings a proposal that is not profitable for Galicia, but that is tremendously harmful, especially – and that surprises us –... The Block knows that we, if it's in favour of Galicia, though it has a bit of contradiction with the theoretical principles, can support it, but it's not the case; it's not the case. Forget the Block that the redistribution principle is associated with the size of a market, that's what's surprising to me. The Lady of the Joint Group has explained perfectly how Europe brings many benefits...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u25	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u26	...that are not divided among the countries that are part of the European Union. What brings us here? Conditioned by a nationalist ideology, bring us a tax debate contrary to what is being debated all over the world. What are we debating in the world? More fairness, that there is more European budget and that there are European tributes that are being redistributed. How can we fight tax fraud? With more international collaboration, with superstate units...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u28	...or above the states. How can we stabilize the world economy? With a Tobin rate, controlling capital movements with taxes. And what do you bring us?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u29	Finish it, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u30	Financial sovereignty. I don't know what Boveda would think of this proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u31	Finish. Finish it, Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u32	...because no one knows. I want to pay tribute to Alexandre Bóveda, who was a great patriot and who had a profoundly unjust and damnable death. I don't know what he'd think right now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u34	...but I have to think that Boveda, in this case, would be with us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u36	...in the interests of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u37	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u38	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica, Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to thank very much for the support expressed by the Joint Group and the AGE Parliamentary Group. The arguments they put forward are completely and absolutely consistent with the BNG. I would like to thank the kind words of Mrs Martínez, and I would also like to thank the Socialist Group for supporting the consideration, as much as many arguments were against. Mr. Santín, I just want to tell you two notes. He called for legal arguments to express reservations about this text. Look, like nothing else I've got five minutes, I'm just pointing out a fact: this bill didn't receive any negative ruling from the Juridical Services of this House warning of its possible illegality. Secondly, he spoke about the historic rights of Basquedi and Navarra. Look, Mr. Santín, with all due respect and all the affection, really, for rights to become historical, for one day to become historical, first you have to have them, first you have to conquer them. [[Applause]] Mr. Pedro Puy, look, he goes through the arguments of the BNG, not the arguments of Mr. Arzalluz. Of course, the BNG presents this initiative conditioned by its nationalist ideology; its position is not conditioned by its centralist and neoliberal ideology. But look, with all due respect – which also knows I have it – that I use the Tobin rate as an argument to override this initiative reminds me of a phrase that always repeated my late father: "He has them like Father Francis," with all due respect. Look, you review our data on tax flows between Galicia and the Spanish State, well, but the truth is, we insist on asking the Galician Board to provide their data and didn't. We have even proposed the creation of a study committee in this Parliament, and you voted against it. But, look, even in the alleged case that the fiscal balance between Galicia and the state was negative, which is not, we insist, an economic concert is perfectly compatible with mechanisms that correct interterritorial inequalities... and I put an example: Has the Spanish State not been a net beneficiary of European Union funds for decades, despite having its own tax administration, despite taking care of itself to manage and collect taxes? Or wasn't it, Mr. Pedro Puy? And what would we win in return? For what we would earn would be the cane; something as simple as having the cane to fish, having the tools to design our own tax policies in the service of our country's interests. Or will you always live in a impoverished country, Mr. Puy? If we are not happy to live forever in a impoverished country, we will have to have the tools that enable us to mobilize the immense resources, the immense potentials of this country to get out of this situation; or does this country have less resources, less potential, than the Basque Country, Mr. Pedro Puy? [[Applause]] But besides, look, data shows that communities that have full fiscal autonomy are those that have better economic indicators and better indicators of welfare and social cohesion. Faced with that, Mr. Puy, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we can do two things: to say that we also want to take responsibility for ourselves – the attitude of a worthy Greek government of that name, of a government that really creates in the potentialities of this country – or to complain that Euskadi or Navarra is doing so well; the submissive and passive attitude that this Government has brought us into being. But look, we're at the end of legislation on a key issue for this country, because nobody discussed in this House ever that the system of self-financing is an essential issue for our country. We're already on the final line of the legislation, so it's time to go swing. And what is the balance on a key question for Galicia, Mr. Pedro Puy? That the BNG Parliamentary Group proposed to set up a study committee; you said no. Let us place the Government to present its proposals to Parliament and to establish a dialogue with the groups to try to establish a country position; you said no. The BNG has given its proposal: the economic concert. You say no again. And in the words of the President of the Union himself, who has just joined this plenary, the current model is incorrect, unfair, it does not finance the actual cost of services, but the reality is that in a key issue for this country, the German Government continues to say that it is not giving the floor in response. That's the reality, Mr. Pedro Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u40	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u41	Let us turn to the vote on the measures taken. Voting of the consideration of the Proposal for a Law, of the G.P. People in Galicia, urgent measures to update Galicia's public transport system. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 56; votes against, 5; abstentions, 9. The voting is positive. It is therefore adopted and therefore follows its parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u42	We now vote on the next item. Voting of the consideration of the Bill to present before the Congress of Deputies, of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, so the Galician economic concert is approved. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This consideration is therefore rejected. Institutional declaration
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u43	I would ask your attention to... I will read an institutional statement that brings me to all groups on the occasion of World Day against Child Labour, which is celebrated on 12 June, to this presidency promoted by International Plan Spain, an institutional statement signed by all the political groups that I read: "We call on the international community to defend that all children have access to free universal education as a basic and compulsory right, and to fight for the development of policies that prevent child exploitation through work. All children have the same rights, set out in international treaties as the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which collects the rights of children and includes rights as the right to education. Public institutions and, in particular, this Parliament are responsible for ensuring that all children can have access to their rights and urge them to do so on a global level as well. Child labour is a result of situations of poverty in which children are forced to leave education to maintain their families economically, losing the right to childhood and their possibility to a dignified future. This Parliament is aware that the situation of children is particularly difficult, as they suffer a double violation of their age and gender. So, girls are the poorest among the poor: in developing countries, girls are the most vulnerable, a fact that is accentuated when there is a shortage of resources around them. This factor, along with other conditions, makes girls unable to go to school and suffer from practices such as child marriage, domestic child labour, early pregnancy, violence, discrimination and female genital mutilation. The Galician Parliament reiterates its commitment to the rights of children and its struggle against child labour and, in particular, the domestic work that millions of children in the world do." Thank you very much. [[Approved by consent.]] We continue with point 2 of the agenda, which corresponds to attendances. Comparison of the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order, on his own request, to report the bet on the improvement of non-university education in Galicia through the Superal Responsibility Fund
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u44	To formulate the appearance you have the word Mr. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u45	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time it is well worth trying to make a reflection, a joint reflection on the Greek education system. The Welsh Chamber is the right space to try to analyze where we are, where we came from and, above all, where we walked. I give you the fact that we have the political training represented here differences on the situation and on the formulas for action. This, the discrepancy, is positive and has been evidenced on many occasions in this House, since there have been many and very varied discussions on education. But I believe, we believe, that citizenship demands us, and demands us to politicians, that we all try, and together, to improve education in Galicia. Our future as a country, our well-being, our coexistence and our progress are very intertwined, very related to our teaching. And this audience wants to be an attempt to explain the effort, the effort made in this case by the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary ordination to, adapting to the times in which it touched us to live, to contribute to improving equity and quality in our educational system. But this audience also wants to be the demonstration that education policies and management when they are realistic and coherent enable us to collect positive results, and they also allow us to keep moving forward in new facets that contribute to improving Welsh education. It's not the first time I've ever defended in this House that in recent years the teaching of Greek has lived and lived a true silent revolution. A silent revolution that is allowing and that has allowed to guarantee its viability without giving up equity, without giving up innovation, modernity or the pursuit of excellence. We have a good education system, I repeat, we have a good education system of what we must be proud of. And I say it proudly. We have a good educational system in which we all put our big area: teachers, families, trade union organizations, administration, we all put our big area. And it seems logical for the board to appeal to responsibility in the defence of education, but this operation happens, precisely by exercising responsibility, by explaining the work developed by the Educational Administration to improve the system. How did we get here? Well, since 2009 Galician union policies have had a double component. First of all, we generate, based on our own organizational and competence framework, a new organizational model adapted to Galicia, based on a basic premise: promoting access, better access to education with equity, equal opportunities and always looking for quality and excellence. We bet on a model with more languages, a multilingual model, with more technology in the classroom, with more autonomy in the centers, with more models of vocational training, Basic Vocational Training, Dual, Distance, with a better – fundamental aspect – coexistence in the classroom, an increasingly inclusive school for anyone to stay behind; more pedagogical and teaching innovation, the Project Plan, and all the curriculum development theme in terms of competence, in projects. In short, we were able to make available to many what used to be just by a few. And secondly, we think, and as an important point in management, to make a responsible and efficient management of public resources. This council has been and is an example, a good example, of that basic question of doing more with less. We had to plan, we had to prioritize when making decisions, and we had to modernize the German education without giving up in any case, at any time, its sustainability. We had to deepen, to deepen in fairness, we had to also deepen in social justice. And what have we achieved? There's an initial and basic question in this respect I wanted to say. Among all of us we should help to prestigious Greek education and to avoid the negative influence of interests other than the well-being and progress of students and their families. We have data to be proud of as a country, to have collective pride. Galicia is the autonomous community that has the best student-teacher ratio in the Spanish ensemble. We were also able in Galicia to improve the results of the competencies analyzed in PISA. Since 2008 we have been able to improve significantly in the three competencies evaluated, to be above the Spanish average in the three competencies: language, mathematics and science; to be above the OECD average in two of these competencies: in science and in language. The school failure has been significantly reduced since 2009. A fact I'll always insist on. We passed in 2009 from above 25%, almost 26%, to slightly above 16% today. I mean, we were able to virtually reduce ten points the failure of school, and there is no more anti-equity or anti-social measure than to send 25% of the students in Greece – 1 out of every 4 young people in Greece – to the street without any kind of titration. And that was fundamental to our educational model that we were able to achieve. And at some point they will have influenced in this drop in school failure the policies implemented and developed by this council, some of them very much questioned at some point by opposition groups. The program contracts, without going further, or the impulse to vocational training or basic vocational training, which has also been questioned, or the promotion of attention to diversity. Fourthly, we have an educational community that is satisfied with school coexistence. Galicia has a good education system in part that there is a proper climate of school cohabitation in the classroom. And this is not an arbitrary data, but it is based on the perception derived from the results of the macro-enquisition that took place at its moment, in which almost 200,000 people participated between teachers, families, students, non-teaching staff, etc. And what does this survey tell us? It tells us that in the schools in Galicia there is a good, very good school life, and that most families are satisfied and openly declared satisfied with the educational center to which their children attend. We've also just seen very recently in a survey conducted by the IGE as the vast majority of the Greeks give a good note, they greatly value their educational service. Sixthly, we also bet on encouraging, by boosting a more inclusive teaching, more socially fair, very intertwined and very embedded in a strategy, in the Welsh Strategy of School Cohabitation. We were able to implement resources around 3,000 professionals PT, AL, caregivers. Of course it is necessary to continue to move forward, of course, but we have on the public network a very large number of professionals dedicated, in this case, to inclusive education, and also putting in place tools for professionals and the educational community to know how to cope with everyday problems of centers, protocols, harassment control, against school absenteeism, against autism, against ADHD, to promote home care etc., etc. But well, after all the saying, after this very brief balance, we have little or nothing to do with the effort made if politicians prefer political partisan disputes, often very selfish, to work for education starting from respect to vigilant legislation. And ladies and gentlemen, we must make a reflection, and we must basically bet on working each one, of course, from his legitimate positions so that interests outside education do not distort the good climate of coexistence that exists in the Greek teaching and are not a reminder to get results in the Greek education system. And we must reflect, we must undoubtedly bet on regaining the minimum consensus and fundamental foundations of a democracy. There may be and should be political discrepancies, but one of the basic democratic principles is to comply with the prevailing legislation. Obviously parliaments, political formations, any citizen can work to change them, but they must always comply with the law. And we must abandon the politicization of teaching and work primarily to prestigious it. Which way are we going? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out the fact that, after dealing with, empowering and encouraging a new educational model at the qualitative level, the time has come for the Greek society to give it back to some extent the effort made by the Welsh educational community, and to return it to it on the basis of investments, based on improvements in the educational centers of the entire Greek geography. Counting on an educational model to improve the learning of our boys and girls has to complement other lines of work. Now that we have a better economic situation, it's time to act at educational facilities; renewing and improving the centers, no doubt, will result in the well-being of the student and also, in a better educational process, and that's why the board is activating in these months a new and powerful effort to improve education in Galicia. The German education has some EUR 20.8 million from the so-called Superlife Responsibility Fund, more than EUR 20.8 million that will be executed in the year 2016, in various improvements in educational centres in the whole of the Greek territory. And what is this, what is it that we're supposed to have more than 20.8 million euros in order to be able to invest immediately in the improvement of the Greek educational centres? Well, this, in the end, is something simple, it's the demonstration that when you work and do it, as did the Government of Greece, when you act with responsibility and for the good of the citizens, the time is always come to collect the fruits. And Galicia has been, is and we hope that it will remain a responsible community, capable of covering the objective of budgetary stability, because Galicia has a responsible government and the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, we are responsible. And that's why Galicia has benefited from the recent increase in the deficit ceiling approved by the Central Government, and that's why we have a surplus that we achieve with responsibility and that we're going to reinvest with a lot of responsibility as well. That's why we're going to complement the learning model with improvements in educational centres, improvements that will result in the well-being of the educational communities in Galicia, essentially, and, above all, of the student. We're talking about the fact that the council has 20.8 million new resources that enable 402 new works in educational infrastructures in a set of 166 municipalities, that is, the fund of surplus that could be summarized by 20.8 million euros, 402 performances in educational centers and performances in more than 166 municipalities. This is a new programming of works, works of improvement of educational centres, which we estimate that in 90% of the cases are completed before the beginning of the next course. This Super-Essponsibility Super-Essibility Fund is added to the important effort in works in centres launched throughout 2016, in particular it is added to more than EUR 15.4 million for 32 events in educational centres within the 2015-2020 Educational Infrastructure Improvement Plan, which enables the establishment of new centres and also enables classes to be expanded in those places where there is demand and need to do so. And it also adds to the more than 3.4 million corresponding to almost 250 performances in RAM works, which as they know are works of repair, expansion and improvement executed in the territorial heads of the council before, too, the beginning of the next course. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about that this year 2016, and through these three sources of resources, the Council of Culture and Education faces a total investment in educational centres of more than 39.7 million, 39.7 million, which will materialise in 683 performances and works, in 527 educational centres distributed in 219 municipalities across Galicia; that is, with the three funds I have just presented we will act practically with 40 million euros, 683 actions and 527 educational centers in 219 municipalities. And the relevance of this data is that the Welsh Educational Administration faces improvements with lower and higher intensity and different and varied depending on each centre in almost half of the public network centres in Galicia, specifically at 47%, and also means that there is a programming of works based on technical criteria and oriented, fundamentally, to generate equity in the territory as well. A programming supported by technical security and planned by the technical units of the territorial heads. The planned actions respond to a priority based on four basic criteria: safety, usefulness, accessibility and habitability; they are actions that are determined, I insist, from the evaluations carried out by the technical units of the council to determine which needs are priority and where we should act. With regard to the types of actions, I mean that the resources – practically these 40 million investment to be made – have been schemed in 16 different types of actions: energy efficiency, 5.8 million euros; expansion of FP centres, 5.6 million euros; repair of decks, 5.6 million euros; new work execution, 4.6 million; expansion of classes, 3.2; general conditioning actions, 2.7; patio works, 2.1; performances in centre windows, 1.9 million euros; improvements in sports facilities, 1.5; façades interventions, 1.3; actions in fountains and heating, 1.2; performances in electrical installations, 1.3; improvements in bathrooms, over one million; performances in accessibility, more than 814,000 euros; performances in dining rooms, more than 632,000 euros; improvements in libraries, more than 165,000 euros. I mean, an order and planning based on intervention typologies. As for the distribution of performances in type of centres and in territory, we must say that the effort in works will benefit the different types of educational centres existing in the Spanish territory as a whole. I have already commented that the 683 actions planned will affect almost 50% of public schools, and to concretely we will develop in primary education, in primary schools, 431 events; in secondary schools and FP, 224; and there will also be 28 performances in centres that teach other types of teaching, conservatory, music schools, arts schools, etc. As for the territorial distribution of investment, the planning of these works, in addition to responding to technical needs, took into account the demographic reality and also the location of the educational centres themselves. We have sought an equitable distribution between urban and rural areas, and also balanced between provinces, weighted – as I have said and repeat – by the reality and the educational needs of the different centers. There will be intervention around 70% of Galician educational centres: in the province of Coruña we will have interventions in 206 centres; in Lugo, 94; in Ourense, 93; in Pontevedra, 134. Obviously, there are a number of centers, and because there are also different types of intervention, it's not the same province as La Coruña, with a larger population volume, which has a higher number of centers, than an inner province that has a smaller number of centers, because demographic reality is absolutely different. And also in terms of typologies, in the province of Coruña, for example, priority is given, and so they tell us the technical needs, the need to make smaller interventions in more centers, while in the case of the province of Pontevedra, what is done is less intervention but more content. And now, I end by recalling that we are talking about that the Welsh Educational Administration will face in this year, as of this year 2016, the construction of works for an investment of more than EUR 39.7 million, mainly through three types of funds: the Super-Avait and Responsibility Fund, around 52% of the total, EUR 20.8 million; the year 2016 of the Education Infrastructure Improvement Plan, around 40%, nearly EUR 39.4 million; and also the RAM works, which account for EUR 3.4 million, around 9% of the investments. And gentlemen, we face constructions, we face works of all kinds, with a very different kind of typology, as I just said, but we also propose improvements in equipment. In the budgets of 2016 we had already planned 1.6 million euros to provide educational centres with different equipment. From the Super-Responsibility Fund, we have incorporated new resources to have more equipment, in particular about 2 million euros, to improve, of course, the equipment, essentially, of secondary, primary and vocational training centres. And I want to point out that one third of these 2 million euros will be dedicated to the acquisition and purchase of robotic material, so that it will be employed in its learning by students and students in the last ESO courses, and also by undergraduate students, to modernize in an area the teaching we understand of great interest and of great importance, as is robotics. In conclusion, we think that it is necessary to assess in its fair measure the important investments in education that are being presented today. It's a success of Galicia, it's a success that we've been responsible for, it's a success of doing things well, and the effort to condition and virtually improve half of Galicia's educational facilities will undoubtedly contribute to strengthening what is the main objective in the educational field of this Government – since it began working in 2009 – which is to improve the quality and equity of Greek education as a whole. Today we can say that German education has its own and differential educational model; today we can say that Greek education is distinguished by effective and efficient management of educational resources; and today we can say that Greek education is committed to further progressing in the well-being of students and teachers, with the conditioning and improvement of half of the educational centers of the public network. And gentlemen, we can disagree with the model, it's licit, it's even positive, but you can't question it, you can't question the important qualitative and quantitative effort that the council is doing for a sustainable, quality and equity teaching for all Greeks and Greeks. We recognize, ultimately, the good that we have and work together to prestigious it and improve it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u46	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u47	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor. Starting by saying that I don't know if you're coming today with a kind of shield, a little bit of the comments you can hear today, we understand that the opposition is that everybody has to make a constructive criticism, we all build. You're talking about that Galicia has framed accounts, and you've made a special effort to summarize the results of austere economic policies, which have been launched since 2009, since you arrived at Feizóo at the Galician Board, talking about that surplus of responsibility, which I would rather say irresponsibility. For seven years of crisis, they've just controlled the public deficit in the marked margins at every moment, so they told him from Madrid. Of course, this is the realization of the serious situation of compulsory education in Galicia: an involuntarily educational policy. Compulsory and public education must have armored budgets, despite the economic crisis. They tell us possibilities for children and children, youth, families, teachers, students and public education. They are sorry, because of the crisis, that they were forced to focus not on specific economic resources, even now they were talking about the training of the student. They made equal opportunities impossible, the centres continued without sufficient teachers, left the quality behind, neglected the schooling of students with specific and special needs, and condemned 40% of the families to pay the textbooks, and now they sell us that because there were no money they are now going to allocate the funds to educational infrastructures that have so far been allocated to the most urgent actions. And of course, now that we're at the last stage of this legislation, the last minute offers come, and yes, they're welcome, but they're late, bad and dragged. And yet this way you can't cover all the eves presenting compulsory public education. Now if they realize, right, that's a basic right, that's won by citizenship. But to get here, many people, including mothers, parents and other professional groups, had to make pilgrimages in recent years to get themselves seen and heard. We have witnessed many of the urgent demands of these groups, asking for the same assurances for all the people of Greece. Noise disturbs, for it contemplates that reality that often doesn't come out in the media, and that they want to keep quiet. They weren't able to meet the needs in the time they were coming up, they had to be anticipated, so that no one would lack these public services that guarantee the quality of education. You have the mechanisms to be able to deal with these eels, they even talk to us and sell us that have reduced the school failure by 23%, now they speak by 16%. But we're talking about a great social fragility, because of the economic crisis. And yes, they tell us about a program coming years, they're going to offer us, they're going to offer us a lot of improvements, but so far they haven't been able to offer enough squares in the early childhood education cycles or in the FP. Specifically, you're talking about an investment of 120 million, to improve 372 schools, where we're talking about approximately 100,000 students, which makes it more or less manifest to act in 1 out of every 3 schools. It has to be said that in most of the Greek school network we speak of the age of most of the thirty-year-old centres, where it is indeed urgent many maintenance measures, including the creation of new centers. They also say there's been a decline in budgets in education. If I would like the per capita investment in education in Junta, with regard to population, to be like in Euskadi, which we speak of 1,224 euros per capita. We're still a long way off. Tell him that, as I said before, there was no forecast of an increase in pupils in towns and cities, or in particular neighborhoods, where they were, and if we had the statistics with birth data, and we have on time examples that even came here to Parliament, like some neighborhood of Santiago, a neighborhood on the outskirts of Lugo, even sports facilities that have been claiming for more than ten years. Now there will be funding, even in collaboration with the municipalities and the deputies. They unattended and made small investments, repairs and maintenance. It is true that we are now told that the X-ray – when they should have done it – of the educational facilities in Galicia, detecting the needs of schools and institutes, apart from the construction of new centers, and where they will allocate funds to the improvement of existing facilities and the provision of new equipment. What if I would comment on it is that they consider space as a category that exceeds material and physical aspects, and start thinking about it as the determinant of styles and possibilities of actions, relationships and learning; it means to consider it as a teaching variable to be taken into account when designing the concrete work proposal in class. And also from specialists in education, space in education is a structure of opportunities, it will be a facilitator, or rather a limiter, depending on the level of consistency with respect to the objectives and the overall dynamics of activities that are in place. You're also talking about the help they're going to give even to language learning, which I think is very good, but they're very scarce. Apart from the time-to-time practices that one can make linguistic immersion, we have a serious problem, because there are no class breaks, they are missing, and we demand more teacher training than foreign languages, but this foreign language practice can never go to the detriment of language itself. You can never learn another foreign language when you don't have a good mother tongue base. And I also want to remember, regarding foreign languages, the empowerment of Portuguese, above all. In March, two years of the Peace Andrade Act were completed, and I think we have a great opportunity there, not only to learn English or other languages beyond the Pyrenees. You also assume a lot of the student ratio, which we have the best in the state as a whole, but you also know that there have been allegations of the Galician Public Education Defense Platform that the student ratio rules are being breached in more than 200 units, a figure that can probably be higher, because you don't count on the student data that repeat courses, or those that have been incorporated late for reasons of change of residence. Reduce the number of students by class is key to ensuring attention to diversity and carrying out a more personalized teaching in class, because we have groups with different competences and some with learning difficulties. Yes, now you also remember the R+D+i. Welcome! A country that does not invest in research and technology is a country that is doomed to have no future. We also continually repeat the derogation from LOMCE, because it is an involution of education. Even from official bodies, at the international level, that cannot be cut off, and it also highlights the fact that mere job creation will not get us out of the crisis. There is a great lack of training, lack of professional skills, which makes young people very much waste their potential. We also consider it unacceptable to finance and raise funds for private education, which since 2001 has grown by 14% more than the public. Budgets for religion are unacceptable, 227 million in 2017, when there is a decrease of even 43% of this student's enrolment. And we must think of the impact the economic crisis had, because there was a drastic reduction in purchasing power. And what if I put it on the table is, for when the free school material in compulsory public education for everyone, for 100% of the population? The freezing of the budgets of the language promotion program, ridiculous, as I mentioned earlier. We also talk that although we have a greater presence of technological equipment in the classrooms – especially due to the increase in digital boards and computers of the Avalar project – the OECD, which is a thermometer of the education system through the PISA report, shows that the greater presence of computers in the classroom does not imply better school results for students. Nothing more at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u49	Well, Counsellor, it is true that the Government of the State has just set a medal – a brass medal, that is yes – to the Greek Government for its strict budgetary discipline, and consequently for its exquisite fulfilment of the deficit. All a paradox, on the other hand, when the Government of the State was the first to fail to meet this deficit ceiling imposed by Brussels, with a deviation of almost one point, that is, nothing negligible. It's funny that he's ordering those who don't do it. These are the paradoxes and circles of the People's Party. To fulfill the state's dictation, and in fact to carry out by step the Brussels dictation, the German Government has demonstrated unprecedented austerity. A whole sample of austerity. The global budget cuts reach 2,700 million euros in six years, we lost 3,000 professionals in health care and education. Galicia was the third community in the whole state with more cuts in teaching staff. There we were leaders, we're vanguards! Galicia has been the fourth Community with more cuts in health personnel throughout the state. Galicia has cut 400 million euros in education in just over six years, and nearly 300 million euros in health care. The health cuts have reached such an extreme that Galicia has the only Government in Europe to investigate the death of patients who have been denied vital treatment. This is the reality. At the same time as this wild den, public debt increased by 260%, up to 10 billion euros, which is a record! An increase of nearly EUR 6 billion from the public debt in Greece. We do not say that this debt is unsustainable, says a specific report of the Board of Auditors, in which you seriously warn of the insatiability of the Greek public debt. An austere corset, which shattered our productive and strategic sectors, accompanying this policy by two factors, from our point of view, definitive and decisive. The first is a null policy of support for productive investment, and, secondly, the disappearance of own Greek financial tools: the disappearance of the boxes sponsored by Mr Feijóo and the absolute paralysis of the Igape. And what is the consequence for our productive sectors of this situation? An agribusiness sector on the edge of the fall; the lowest milk prices in the whole state; an industrial sector in the perpetual razor thread – there we have the naval and the automotive –; the sector of renewable energy is completely torn apart – the failure of the wind plan, zero megawatts installed –; the paralysed aquaculture sector, since they were unable to draw forward a regulatory framework that said it would be the guarantor of the future of the Greek aquaculture sector; the brutal fall in industrial employment – 50,000 jobs less in the industrial sector – exponential loss of technological enterprises, etc., etc. But what's more serious, what are the consequences for the Greek families? For 6 out of 10 families come with difficulty at the end of the month, 120,000 people in severe poverty and 1 out of 5 children are poor in our country. That's the price of his compliance with the deficit, that's the price of his unleashing brass medal. And what's the prize they give the German Government for causing all this suffering? Well, 200 million euros from a surplus fund in theory that's going to invest, what? Well, they're going to invest 200 million euros in the longest and most expensive electoral campaign in world history. You exceed Mr. Donald Trump's campaign expenses, leave Mr. Donald Trump up to the mere calderilla. And what is the realisation of this campaign that Mr. Donald Trump owns? For 20 million euros from the surplus fund for works in centers. This is... Well, we could take it humorous, but the truth is, it's more like an insult that a political proposal would be, and I'm going to tell you why. Galicia has approximately 1,200 public schools, 1,200 public schools that were abandoned for their luck during two legislates: unheated classes, children who go to class with shelters because they don't have a suitable temperature, electrical facilities that don't support the consumption of their own centers, lack of absolutely unacceptable infrastructure. But this is the most curious thing, what was the cut in the match for repairs, enlargements and improvements by the German Government? Do you know what the cut was? 20 million euros, the ones that now promise you to invest with this fund of surplus. The funds for repairs, expansions and improvements in the stages of childhood, primary and secondary education were EUR 23 million in 2010. In 2016 it's 3.6 million euros, they take out 20 million and put us in a campaign of propaganda, hours and a fund of surpluses. This is the reality, Mr. Rodríguez, you're just making propaganda. And I also tell you a question that I think you should understand, simply by making an efficient management of the available resources within your model, by meddling and simply assuming your educational model, you could give a response, at least, more suited to needs, to the real needs of educational institutions. I'm going to make concrete proposals to you, if you do – I insist, within your own model – If we save the EUR 400,000 invested in their absolutely failed and useless revals – I imagine this will recognize it – we could provide the personnel-specific guidance teams. I remind you that the four specific guidance teams are without personnel, with the pending vacancies to cover, fundamental staff – this is yes – to meet diversity; EUR 400,000 that we save from the useless revals for professionals from the specific guidance teams. By recovering with this Government the universal loan of textbooks, a universal loan that guarantees that all children without class distinction had the necessary material, you would save about 3 million euros of inefficient expenditure. With this they could hire 120 specialists in therapeutic education or hearing and language to give a truly effective response to children who have special educational needs or simply need educational support. This would allow you to make an efficient resource expenditure. By adapting the resources devoted to teaching religion to the demand that this subject has – I say, simply by adapting the resources that you dedicate to religion to the real demand of this subject – you could save 11 million euros. I remind you, Counsellor, that in recent years the fall of the registration of religion has been 40% of the student; if you had adapted, reducing the resources devoted to religion by 40%, you would have 11 million euros. What could they do with that money? For a rural education support plan – in which you closed 500 lessons in the last six years – and 100 educational centres. EUR 11 million for a rural education support plan that really needs to survive. By rearranging the network of concerted centres, and allowing there to be no redundancy in the offer of squares, i.e. by reducing the supply of concerted squares in those areas where there are available public classes and public squares, you could save about 20% of the resources devoted to concerted education. You could save 47 million of the 237 million people who spend each year on concerted education. And with this what could they do? For example, they could hire 1,800 teachers or 1,800 teachers of education, which they do with their daily work maintain the quality of our education system on exemplary levels, despite you. You could make a plan to improve educational institutions, this is very curious. We have repeatedly made proposals to make a plan to improve educational institutions and you have accused them of making brick proposals, and you have done so in this House repeatedly. And your star proposal, because I – using your own words – will have to tell you that it's a brick proposal. Why? Because in your intervention you haven't referred to any methodological changes in our education system, to educational innovations, to new methodologies, to boost collaborative work in centers, to work for projects, etc., etc., etc. As always, Counsellor, you haven't talked about education, yet I don't think that investments in educational centres are brick investments, it's in schools where our quality of education lies; it's among the walls of the schools where our country's future resides. He invests in them, but not in propaganda, as you're doing now. Do not boast of the brass medal that the State Government has put on you, what really happens, Counselor – and let me make this confidence to you – is that you are in a position of frank weakness. It was an important blow to the revalids and you needed an appearance to come up and in the final phase of the legislation selling investments in education, it's pure propaganda. And I'm telling you, if you don't change your policy, if you don't change your dynamics, you'll follow the path of Mr. Wert and Mr. Vázquez, the former advisor, who is nothing other than education exile, because you're doing an unprecedented damage to the Greek education system. Correct your policy and stop making more propaganda. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u51	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, very good morning. You look here today in this Parliament to talk about the improvement of non-university education through the Superal Liability Fund, which you make this year at EUR 20.8 million – if I did not take the note correctly – but which extends to almost EUR 40 million if we have improvements in other reforms, enlargements and improvements in centres. The bottom of the surplus, Counsellor, you who, when the budgets were approved this year, when they were discussed, the difference between the budgets of the year 2016 and the previous government – the one before the People's Party – was no less than 256 million euros in Education alone. And now you're talking to us here about returning to the education system a new and powerful investor effort talking about over 20 million euros. Counselor, these two weights that you so cherish, propaganda and advertising, we see that they now acquire an important relevance. In April Mr. Fanda's advisor got a headline in the press I put here, said: "Galiza returns from Madrid with 225 million euros of Montoro"; press headline: "Valeriano Martínez has returned satisfied with the Madrid Fiscal and Financial Policy Council". They made debt more flexible than 0.7 and could the Community owe us at 225 million to the top, but the headlines are that "Galiza returns with 225 million Euros of Montoro." Well, you could say Mr. Farm Counsellor that the Central Government is raising every year about EUR 3,000 million less than you invest in our country. Well, the advisor to Fairy could ask about these 8,000 million euros that Galicia lost since the entry into force of the current system of self-financing in 2009. But the councillor of Fairy has returned satisfied, propaganda and publicity; for sure, he has also enlarged the President of the Board by announcing an extraordinary package of measures for employment, industrial fabric, birth, health, housing and, of course, education. And he was talking about improvements in 372 schools, one third, now the councilman gets the most difficult still and already talks to us - if I didn't take note - of 683 performances in 527 centers and 219 municipalities. That is, even more difficult, instead of claiming – I say – Mr. President those 8,000 and I peak millions of euros that Galicia loses in its presidency, because propaganda and publicity. And now you're talking to us here, Mr. Counsellor – present – about the surplus of responsibility, I say, of 20.8 million euros. When – I repeat – you were spokesperson of the Popular Group – the first budget I attended – in 2012 for 2013, the cut compared to the government prior to the People's Party was in education in just one year of 300.37 million euros. And I repeat that this year, compared to the previous government, before the People's Party, it was 256 million euros in a single year. You, Mr. Counsellor – as the previous Comparative has just said – closed the amendments, which the BNG Parliamentary Group also defended in this last budget – by the way, that you voted against – when we talked about the new CEIP and IES at the Upper Castle in Narón, or the Sacred Heart CEIP in Lugo, so that they could start this year. It's already the second time it's in the budget, I don't know when you can make the CPI Conde Fenosa, which is already the third time it's scheduled, but we don't know when it's going to end. The new CEP of Culleredo, which I don't know, will follow the same steps as the IES, which is delayed and delayed despite the need. Despite the announcements I don't know, Counselor, and this new announcement, the promised ones will be finished for the second, for the third and some for the fourth time. Even the latest proposals that led the Parliamentary Group of the BNG to the committee talking about the extension of the CEIP Lamas de Abade, I don't know if you will be the one with this wonderful surplus to get it into operation, I say no more in this course that goes in, but for the 2017-2018 course. I'd like you to clarify it in your next intervention. Even the new sports pavilion that CEIP Julio Gurriarán do Barco needs so much, I would also like to explain to myself whether to enter this package that will be done before you enter the new course. Even the CEIP of the Lugo Annex, in the center of the city, a fully needed center of promised expansion several times. I would also like you to clarify whether you come into this package, because they are promises made by the People's Party that you've never made and now that you're coming with a new surplus, I'd like to know what you're going to do. That is, after two legislations of cuts in public investment in Education, which, if we compare them – I mean, to the last of the previous government, unlike the People's Party, there in 2009, if we cut by comparing, we would be talking about 1,500 million euros less in education. And now they come to sell us propaganda and advertising with 20.8 million, like a surplus, after cutting 1,500. Lexislation is against the defense of public education, although here the councillor is very satisfied with his mouth about equity, excellence, and I don't know how many things. But cut, cut and cut... We must prestigious the teaching of Greek. We are for that, but it is very difficult: 4,000 teachers who have asked for retirement – despite the counsellor speaking of so many wonders – have been singing the "total sinister, we are total sinister", 4,000 bored teachers to see how the Council does not defend them, Counselor. [[Applause]] And you come here to tell us that we are the first – I took note – in language, mathematics and science, above the Spanish media; language, by the way, not the Galician, uh!, because I decree plurilingualism yes, except the Greek. Despite the fact that the Royal Galaga Academy, the Council of Culture, the Bureau for Linguistic Standardization, the ASPG, all teaching unions and all parliamentary groups, apart from the People's Group, have asked for consensus, Counsellor, of what you have been talking about now. They have been asking for years to eliminate this decree that the only thing that pursues is to reduce the use of Welsh – and, by the way, they have achieved it – to reduce the use of our language, which virtually disappears in childhood education and is banned in those mathematics and scientific-technical matters in which we are so important. But our language stays behind. After two legislations changing the educational model, the BNG has claimed and claimed a public education, including, Greek, of quality, secular, free, that takes into account music, so important, and philosophy. But what is changing is by a teaching such as business, competitive, confessional, classist and that aims to segregate the student from families with less economic resources. We would have many more things to say, but everything you just told us here is against what reality is, what we saw at the beginning of the course, a new course – this of which we are already reaching its end – that introduced LOMCE to LAC, a course that followed the round answer, to LOMCE and to the revals, which are not positive for our country. Eighty percent of the public students, of the public centers, decided not to send their children – the families, I say – to show their massive rejection of the revals and the LOMCE. A course that went on closing public schools. Over the past four years, 46 less public schools, 327 less public units, but that's right, 215 new units of the concert. A response from the beginning of the course for the reduction of the teacher, which spoke of 3,000 less teachers; 300 centres at the beginning of this course that demanded the necessary teacher training, 200 units with students above the ratio, 60% of the mentors in this country who shared the center, continued demands for teachers of FP, AL and caregivers. In more than 50% of Lugo and Ourense centers the student is grouped with different ages at two or three levels together. Universal gratuity has disappeared in the textbooks and in other things. And even at the beginning of the course, more than 3,000 applications in children could not be met and there were 4,000 students in FP who could not attend FP what they claimed.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u52	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u53	And even – and I'm finished, Mr. President – in this course we had to attend, despite the words of Mr. Counsellor's inclusion, that a mother had to demand in the press educational attention in her home to a child who had the misfortune of suffering from cancer. You just told us here, Mr. Counsellor, that the model of this country has a lot of inclusiveness. Counselor – finished – that less is done, you will say. That we have a teaching that works well, because it's more inclusive, with more equity, quality and efficiency, you'll say. That there's the best teacher ratio per student in the whole state you'll say so too. But everyone who has something to do with teaching knows that it's the eighth year of cuts and that these cuts seriously affect the quality of our public education. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u54	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. We also greet the public, which is a youth audience. Mr. Education Counsellor – although I don't know if he's called "the chief bricklayer of the Education Council," I have the doubt; during the intervention I'll tell him one thing and the other, and you know why," you appear today in this Parliament with your hand-checker to announce in full electoral campaign to the educational community that Melchor, Gaspar and Baltasar arrived in the middle of June, and that they did it in costumes of Rajoy, Feijó and Román Rodríguez. And it also appears, Mr Counsellor, to draw upon the good they have done in recent years and to make an amendment to all of the things that you have been doing in recent years, in matters, essentially, of brick, despite the multiple and varied complaints that have come from the whole of the educational community of Greece and yet also, Counsellor, of what some in this Parliament have been asking for in the last three years about the austerity practised by the governments of Galicia and Madrid under the ideologists of the European Commission and the International Monetary Fund. Major thief, pardon, Counsellor, you and your colleagues in the People's Party often say to this spokesman of the Socialist Group that is predictable in his interventions. And believe me if I tell you I never felt bad, more like everything else. To tell me that I'm predictable in my interventions means nothing more and nothing less than my convictions and points of view that don't change depending on how I wake up every morning. I want to tell you today that you come to this Parliament with your check-in in the hand and disguise as a magician king, or, if you prefer, Santa Claus, that this Member who speaks to you has been telling you and his predecessor and the various positions of the Education Council that you have completely abandoned the maintenance of the facilities of many many Greek educational centers. And you, when we said that, they never listened to us, they called us bricklayers. And today, at the time of the discount of this legislation, in the middle of the electoral campaign, both here and throughout Spain, you come to tell us that these evils generated by the lack of foresight of their governments would be solved immediately, with the magical fund of obedience and good behavior, the so-called "superior responsibility", which kindly and generously reminds us of Mr. Mariano Rajoy for having been Feijó one of the most advanced and obedient students of austere doctrines. Counsellor, Galicia has lost nearly 400 million euros in her education in recent years. And today you are presenting yourself here with 21 million euros in order to hypnotize us and make us forget the last years of austerity. And do so, by the way, once you've already been through Galicia with the check-up in your hand announcing the news you bring to this Parliament today. Therefore, Counsellor, once again, and as almost always, the German Parliament is nullified and used to make propaganda announcements that you have previously communicated in the four provinces of Greece and in the media. And I want to focus now on another issue which also seems very relevant to us in the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Can you tell us, Counsellor, what criteria were used to share this magical fund of responsibility in the Greek educational centres? Were they objective criteria? What exactly do you mean? Or were they just political criteria, Counselor? I look forward to their explanations in the next turn of intervention, because we understand that knowing these criteria of distribution is very important for educational communities that have needs and for many mayors and mayors of our towns and towns, who complain – exactly, certainly – about sectarianism in the criteria of distribution. Counsellor, in any case you're here with the check-up in hand, and we're not going to take the opportunity to speak seriously about the real problems of Greek education that your check-up won't solve. Counsellor, we have the deosta LOMCE, and we have it under way with multiple defects and implantation problems. Say what you say, there's been pressure, improvisation, and there's still a deep discomfort in the education community of Galicia to this day. Say what you say, and in spite of the check-up in the hand with which you are presented today in this Parliament, human and material resources are still lacking in many Greek educational centers. And there are still structural problems in many educational buildings because of the lack of proper maintenance in them. And I remind you once again that the People's Party has been ruling Galicia twenty-five of the last thirty years. And it's not like the spokesman of the Socialist Group says it – and that should be much more important for you – the ANPA, the professor, the management teams of the centers and even the teaching unions. You're here today to announce improvements in Greek educational centers, and welcome to be such improvements, Mr. Counsellor, welcome to be, although the announcements take place in full electoral campaign and after having the centres abandoned for many years. We will criticise the forms, and even the criteria for distribution, if there are them; but we will not say that they are not necessary where they are made. The management of the LOMCE's start-up post was and continues to be a reckless, insatiable calendar, huge fuck with the 3rd and 6th primary revals – 70% of the Greek families did not send their sons and daughters to those tests, and that must make them reflect. In spite of what you have told me in this Parliament, with the new teaching programmes, which are still being delivered to many schools today. Yes, Counselor, still now, the end of the course, if they're delivering didactic programming, even though we're at the end of the course. It's a huge mess that they also put together with the management of textbooks, or the lack of staff. Counsellor, I have told you sometimes in this Parliament that, in your time in charge, the only important change I have observed is the ways and manners of you. But there was no other change worthy of mention in our country's educational, cultural or linguistic policy, since in transcendental issues you followed exactly the book of your predecessor. You know better than anyone that the cuts produced in the Greek education system have produced important consequences, and perhaps from there your presence today with the hand-checker to make yourself forgive a small part of the sins committed during the austere stage. But the reality is tozuda, Counsellor: we have fewer resources for scholarships and compensatory education, we have fewer teachers and more angry, you have mismanaged the theme of textbooks, they've launched in a hurry and running the basic FP, and without calculating some of its consequences, and they've set up a real fuck with the 3rd and 6th primary revals. I want today, again in parliamentary headquarters, on behalf of the Socialist Group, to thank the Greek professor, for the small progress that has been made in recent years has been possible thanks to his effort and professionalism. I know you're assuming Galicia has improved some indicators, like we haven't! But you'll understand that I want to compare myself with the best and not with the worst results. And we could talk a lot about that, about why these results, or about each other's starting situations. I want to compare myself in educational results with Basque Country, yes; or, if you prefer, I want us to compare ourselves in results with Finland or France. You choose who you want to compare with, but always with the best. In any case, I don't forget, Counselor, that you've been managing education in Galicia for twenty-five of the last thirty years. So there will be some responsibility for this, right? Counselor, in education, there are no magic solutions with miracle checks, no matter how much you insist now. In education things are achieved with patience, with means, with stability, and deeply respecting the work of the teacher. Galicia has improved in some indicators in recent years, it would be more than we've ever done. And I won't be the one to deny it, because I live in Galicia, work in Galicia, and I wish the Greek education system to go very well, because from there I came out and I'm going back there. Counsellor, you know very well that for the Socialist Group fairness is very important, and you spoke about it in your intervention. And preserving that equity is absolutely a priority for us. You know that I have severely criticized the implementation of LOMCE in Galicia and the success with the management of textbooks, and I have often told you that a decent country can't allow a single child or child to go to class without textbooks and school materials. And today I ask him here again, face to face, let him do so and respect him for the next course. What they did with the subject of books was to upset the professor, the ANPA, the management teams and even the bookstores. Counsellor, it seems that austerity is coming to an end, given its presence in hand-checking today in this Parliament. And if that is so, and not just their propaganda in electoral campaign, we have to safeguard equity and continue to improve results, and to do it by looking at the best; to recover labor and professional conditions seized by the professor; to recover operating costs that have lost the educational centres; to restore educational equipment that have become obsolete – fundamentally computer equipment and laboratories and professional training workshops –; to correct seriously and without propaganda the so-called digital divide between the city centers and our rural centers, that hard times can see a video on YouTube; to recover at a proper pace the hundreds of squares of teachers lost in recent years, and to do so by summoning in the next four years public job offers that will make it possible; and, as not, by addressing the needs of works in many centres that need them, and not according to sectarian and partisan criteria. I hope, in any case, Mr Counsellor, that the contributions and criticisms made to you today by the Socialist Parliamentary Group serve at least to reflect on them and to lead you to make decisions that are very different from those that have taken your side and your government over the past few years. I honestly believe it would be good for the education system of this country, but also for the future of Spain and Galicia. For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u56	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Farínas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Counsellor, allow me to start by telling you that you have had a respectable intervention, at least respectable, but it was also an unappealable, impeccable, irrevocable intervention from all points of view of the opposition. We know they don't like it, but it's logical. [[Murmurs.]] I would be very concerned if the opposition liked the counsellor's intervention. You can't like it because, as it's good for you, everything that's good for Galicia doesn't like it, because everything that's good for Galicia for you is bad. That's why they never won any elections in Galicia nor will they win the following either. Because they don't confuse – because it's fashionable – you don't confuse with the most important value we have in Galicia, which is your people, you don't confuse. [[Murmurs.]] They resort, yes, counsellor, to the lexical repetition. Allow me to take a course: insult, obedience, unacceptable, useless, cutting, suffering, death, propaganda, bricklayer, wind energy, health, industry... all so as not to talk about education. This reminds me of the experiment of Elizabeth Loftus and John C. Palmer, the well-known experiment Loftus-Palmer, where 45 children are selected, divided into groups -- five groups -- and if you present a film showing two cars in an accident, the whole procedure. And it turns out that those five groups, each of them, if you give them a written description to calculate the speed at which the car caused the accident. Perception: Some read "contacted", the car had contacted the other, other "colissoned", "suspended", "shocked", "starred"... as the words were changing would increase the speed of the car. Everyone had seen the same film, but, as the question was changed in its writing, the conclusions were what were. And here it happens exactly. You reflected the Loftus-Palmer at the foot of the letter. They used all the lexical, rhetorical or musical resources if they were to come here to devert an intervention that does not have a single point to approach it with weakness. You devert each and every one. There is no single data, no single data in these seven years of People's Party government, none in which the educational criteria and parameters have not improved. Get out here and say one. They have a second round of intervention to devert all and each of the arguments. But don't make me like the sophisticians. Someone spoke the other day in the Precartes' commission, transformed into sophists, of course. In fact, they used a fallacy giving it as a good incentive to influence the receiver to convince him. That's what you're trying to do here. They won't get it because the evidence is above lies and falsehood. And here comes the story – Mr. Vázquez reminded me when he spoke – a phrase that I noted by Muñoz Molina: "The historian, the scientist, accepts error and doubt. The preacher only manages certainty." And your preaching that you brought to this forum has to be confirmed through political action, and political action is exemplary, not words, you have to come here and prove it. As you didn't rule here, we never have to go to the place where you ruled. And where they ruled, what do you guys do? Well, the opposite of what they say here, the opposite. Mr. Docasar, you should have confluenced with your Andalusian education adviser, who, in spite of all the sorrows, says that the law is to comply – it seems foolish – that the law does not like it, but that it must comply with the law because it is in force. And he does not seek powers for his parliament, which has the Congress of Deputies in Madrid. And he says there are a number of communities in which he disagrees, but there must be compliance. Here they're asking to breach all opposition groups. To violate the laws, that's the message you're launching from a gallery of a legislative chamber. But there you are and your responsibility. And what example could we say? Well, now it's fashionable the investment plan, for example, in Andalusia, in 15th and 16th, equipped with pumpkin and plate, of 10 million euros to finish with 80 snails, 80 caracolas. What are the snails? The snails are prefabricated that they are building for childhood education and primary education, Counsellor. They're not talking about brick; no, no, fuckers. As I would say to the counselor, "like the beautiful houses that appear in American films. And, in any case, don't be afraid. There are no hurricanes here in Andalusia." All right, here in Galicia some must be, but I don't know them either. [[Murmurs.]] However, we don't make snails. However, we do and improve the public schools in Galicia. And what you've been asking for historically in all the education committees of this Parliament, in all, adding them all, the bricks that you call, adding all the requests you have made in this Parliament, do not come to half of what the Counsellor proposes today in his presence. But you don't like it, Counselor, you don't like it, because maybe the method, the system they want to apply, will be what they apply where they rule. So, Compromis, this confluence of the United We can, or we can't, also make huts – in Valencia instead of shells are barracks, it's much more appropriate to lexicology, much more suitable – just like Morrut, Morrut... yes, yes, yes, I still remember how well Tonet dealt with Morrut, the donkey, throwing away, but the rods with it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] That's what I remember. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, or the book plan, you're going to explain it to your necklaces, to see why Generalitat draws a free book plan that has to pay for the municipalities, which then has to forward the money to the deputation because the small municipalities have no money to pay the books of... yes, yes, I know, sir... you took a toll in the previous intervention you had, and now you want to repay me. [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, I'm not going in the rag. [[Applause]] When you want to have something to say, you say it in your turn. [[Murmurs.]] And besides, if you don't believe it, look, classes in barracks and two floors. Because, of course, there's no land and then we get up. ANPA is protesting because it is sustained not in a foundry, no, in wooden tacos. But here the counsellor came not to speak of wooden tacos or of barracks nor to speak of snails. He came to talk about real investment, all that you've been asking for. And, Mr. Pombo, in the same musical and juicy tone that, I suppose, you wanted to do with the sinister, I'm going to say, "Let's tell lies, it will betray-- the sea runs the hares-- you know that, right? What do you want me to tell you? Do you want me to tell you what's going on in Catalonia? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Thank you, Mr. Fajardo, always splendid. [[An honourable Member: Bravo!]] Do you want me to tell you what's going on in Catalonia – who don't pay for official payrolls, for example – and that that fund of Spanish solidarity – not of responsibility, like the Welshman – is breaking a month behind you? Or do you want me to tell you about the clippings? Where didn't they cut, Mr. Pombo? You tell me. In which autonomous community is there no less budget today than in 2008, or in 2007? Tell me which one, and so in my next intervention I will also be able to see how much it went down. Mr. Docasar, I hope, as in the song of Macaco – action, reaction, repercussions – that doesn't affect you so much, that it acts a little bit more. Because I still trust you. And I still trust you to come to terms with reasons, because those are the reasons that can lead us to some encounter. Of course, by not lying or telling stories – which is not your case – in this gallery. Mrs. Fernández, foreign languages. Man, you touched the sensitive fiber. I mean, you can accuse this government of what it wants, but of promoting multilingualism... Home!, do you know how many multilingual schools there were when we got to the Government? Zero, zero! There are nearly 300 schools today. Multilingual units. How many multilingual units do we find when we get to the government? 700, 10, 12...? How many today? 3,700. Mrs. Fernández, I can see you don't listen to me. He doesn't care. Talkers had 67; today, 470. If you want, we continue with data that are irrefutable. Speeches are questionable; but data, if you have others, go out here and tell me. Education needs, school support... Mr. Vázquez, I tell you with all my affection and respect that you know I have; that is, 10%, 11% practically, of the teaching staff of public schools are specialists in caring for diversity, in caring for special educational needs. You know that. If I find another community that has parameters similar to these, I'll accept it and I'll recognize you as right. But you don't deny me any evidence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u58	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u59	There isn't. He won't find her. Sure. And then, regarding the concerted education, I don't understand this abuse that you have with this collective, when it was you who invented the educational concerts, who implemented them, who kept them, and yet come here with a speech trying to sell a donkey that doesn't exist. Because that's an exclusive creation of yours. If you're going to shoot us in the face we kept them. Well, I accept the invitation. Anyway, we'll be able to keep talking about this in the second round, which have been left with unspoken questions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u60	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u61	In any case, Counsellor, we are very grateful for this conciliatory position and for trying to reach agreements, and for the recognition that the Greek education system is a system of its own, of quality, equitable and that it improves day by day. And I'm sure, from the Council, with the observance of this parliamentary group, they will continue to improve year after year when the following elections are won. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u62	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Replica by Mr Culture, Education and Universitary Order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Vázquez, from AGE, tell us, tell me, that I didn't talk about education, that I didn't talk about methodologies, didactics. No, I'm not here to talk about it, Mr. Vázquez. I come here to talk about the wager for the improvement of Galician non-university education through the fund of surplus responsibility. Now, I talked about education, I didn't talk about methodologies, I talked about education. Who didn't talk about education here – let me tell you with all your affection – it was you. You made here a sort of debate about Autonomy bis, where you told us about the price of milk, naval, health. But of education he didn't tell us anything. He spoke to us, yes, in that neo-language that they usually use to classify things, to try to see things as you think they are. But he didn't really tell us about education and I did, I did talk about what I was talking about, which was the title simply of what the appearance is, the request for appearance. But finally, after listening to you, I think time is a great judge. Time gives and takes away reasons. And the truth is, you're still installed in that usual strategy that we know perfectly well to repeat once and a thousand times, or as often as you need, the same messages. His strategy is: Let's say what we want something to stay. And, man, something if it stays. And I believe that what remains is the damage and confusion, the confusion that they try to transfer to society and the harm that is generated, and that it is generated not to this party or this government, which is generated fundamentally and unfortunately to students and families. But, well, at the end of time, as I have said, it gives and takes away reasons. Mr. Pombo – to which I thank you that we were glad in the morning – always uses his litany of the three "r", that of cuts, cuts, cuts. You, Mr. Pombo, with all due respect, were stuck on the streets of melancholy – since we are in the musical plan –, you continue on the street of melancholy, you continue with your repetitive, constant message. But we are no longer at that time, fortunately for Galicia and fortunately for the Greeks and for the Spanish ensemble. [[Applause]] And I think it was palpable, in the exhibition that was made, the credibility that this council had in many years and that we humbly want it to continue. And by using, let's say, your three r rhetoric, I'll also talk to you about three r. I'll tell you about realism. This council managed with absolute realism, we didn't invent the dairy accounts. With what, we said, what can we do by changing, improving and planning? And we did. I know you don't like it. Nothing, perfect. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I recommend that you look at all the educational indices from 2009 to today. And if he keeps saying nothing, he'll probably grow his nose. [[Applause]] Another "r" I'm going to tell you: responsibility. It is not a minor issue to the responsibility of a public administration, which has a government, because it has to run, it has to plan and it has to decide what measures and what resources it uses. Unless you prefer, as you did or did the governments you were in, leave the debt 2,000 million for the next year's budget. Well, responsibility. And I'm going to say the third "r", which you like so much: results. You always talk about the Bipartite having more money. Yeah, we recognized him a thousand times, you had more money. What did they do to him? Have they had any better results? No, that's the difference: you guys, more money and worse management; more irresponsibility and worse results. And that's evidence, that's data, that you can think of in a lot of variables. We have been set up by the honourable Member in multilingualism, we could propose them in multilingualism or in any other language. But I'm going to tell you just one that I think is very important: school failure. There's nothing more anti-equity and anti-social than an educational system being sent, as at the time, one in four children to the street without any kind of titration. From there, you say what you want, and from there you assume budget but not results, because they didn't have them. And look, you've also talked about specific data. I could tell you a lot of specific data. You spoke of Julio Gurrián. There is in this project EUR 150,000 to make an agreement with the municipality, which is already announced in the press. I personally spoke to the mayor of the boat. Another center: Lamas de Abade, in this city. There's an organized planning, agreed to with the council, in which he intervenes counsellors and councillors to give way to that need. And so we could say one and the other. Something you say in general, or they said in general, has to do with me coming here to do electoralism, to do advertising and propaganda; well, to try to confuse us at these confusing times, to try to confuse us. The truth is, we're in a convulsive world and a confused world, and anything at all. Even some say, you see, that Marx and Engels were Social Democrats. So, of course, we're in an absolutely confused world. [[Laughter]] When we come to say that Marx and Engels are Social Democrats, that is to say anything. [[Applause]] But you don't care, last week, in the previous plenary session, you accused me personally of not appearing to explain the evaluation tests. Today I come and they don't like it, they say I'm here to do advertising and propaganda. I'm sure if you'd come to the previous plenary, you'd say you'd come to coerce the families. Because when we inform families by letter, you say we coerce them. And they also said it was advertising, propaganda and electoralism about a year ago, when we also came in this House to present a reprogramming of Feder funds where the Education Council was able to dedicate to educational centres, mainly to improvements and expansions of many educational centers, practically – if I don't miss my memory – around 8 million euros, which were all executed. And you also accused me of electoralism, propaganda, advertising. This year, I repeat, we will have nearly 40 million euros this year to invest in educational centres, about half of these 40 million already come from the previous planning, the allocation plan and the RAM, and the other 20 million come exactly from the surplus fund, the fund of responsibility. And that's because it was done well. I understand that you try to minimize it and I understand that you try to say that you don't like us coming to this House to inform the Galician society of important investments that will be carried out in a considerable, very considerable, number of educational centers to improve the conditions of students. But really, from there to saying that this is advertising, propaganda and electoralism, so, you'll see, what do you want me to tell you? When it was demonstrated last year that the reprogramming was invested and that many improvements were made in many centres: in Pontevedra city, in Vigo, in Vilagarcia, in the Navy, in Santiago city itself, in many.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u64	Quiet, quiet. Quiet, please. Mr. Fajardo, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u65	You don't know Cotarolo Valledor. It seems a lie that you're from Vilagarcia and you don't know the expansion that's been made of half a million euros in Cotarelo Valledor for vocational training workshops. And you say you're a conceler in that town. [[Applause]] Well, we're really bad, they're bad.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u66	Mr. Fajardo, I call you by order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u67	If he goes on, he comes on the second.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u68	I don't know if it bothers you that we have a deal with the City Council to invest, I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u69	Mr. Fajardo, I call you in order for a second time. And I warn you that a third call to order involves your expulsion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u70	The second thing you used is the distribution. Mr. Docasar used it and said it was a caciquil division, sectarianism. Mr. Docasar, with all the affection and respect I have for you, don't let yourself be deceived by the mermaids or even by the noiades of the Vigo River, which will eventually lead you to the bottom of the sea. Because you come here to pose a little rabies and question – rabies by the photo – that you do a caciquil, sectarian or political distribution of funds, and I'm going to show you with four data, and tell you what are the ten municipalities that most public resources receive in the planning of works that I just presented. The first ten: Lugo, Pontevedra, La Coruña, Ourense, Santiago, Vigo, Ames, Cangas, Culleredo and Vila de Cruces. We're all true sectarians when, in the ten most received councils, eight are not governed by the People's Party. That argument of sectarianism is a little short, because we're acting in 50% of the centers and 80% of the municipalities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u71	Silence! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u72	Home! I don't know if it's bad for them. It's bad to me that the Vigo Town Hall has not yet put the land at the disposal of the Councillory for the expansion of Navia, I think that's wrong, you protest. You protested for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u73	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u74	You protest for that and please tell the Town Hall to give us the land at once, which we need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u75	Mr. Lumba, I call you by order. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Gallego, you have a call to order. Please, let's finish this show normally, without interrupting. No, no, Mr. Galician, not you. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Finish it, Mr. Counselor; or go on, better said.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u76	I know that Mr. Gallego has his character like that and nothing happens at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u77	You don't have time, Counselor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u78	He also told us Mr. Docasar, with his usual and positive perseverance for him – although today I saw him a little more aggressive than usual, Mr. Docasar, a little more aggressive – that really did this because you asked us to. And, look, we did it when it could be done. And you know why? Because there have been many years of a budget situation in this autonomous community, this administration, like many, which was very, very sensitive. And we had to prioritize public resources and maybe we had to postpone in time an arrangement in a work, because we had to pay better an PT, or because we had to put more dining room, or because we had to put a new teacher. And perhaps there were works to be postponed, yes, I have said so many times. Now, at this moment, where fortunately, fortunately, the economic situation, although you haven't just liked it, is improving, making it possible for more public resources to somehow get out of these situations. And I can't understand how you can compare the current situation with the situation of the Bipartite. I don't know how you can do it, really, because I'm going to tell you one thing: I've been discussing with you on a number of different occasions in the budget debates that brought up amendments from works that didn't sound like technical units, just because a concierge or a mayor told you. They weren't detected in the technical units, or, in some cases, they told us works that weren't demanded by the centers or told us works where they couldn't be done because there were no lands. I think there's a plan now, it's been planning in the last few years. It's done, with the resources there are, a remarkable effort. Look, in recent years, from 9 to today, if we add all the data, we have an amount of EUR 143 million, with an average of 17.8. And at this time the averages are higher. Why? Because there's better resources. Now, the previous management was to take note. You see that the deviation in works, in the hiring of works and in the payment of works, that is, in terms of changes and liquidations, at the time of the Bipartite was 30%. We needed a project and we had to add 30% of the work deviations to it. Now it's at 5%. So there was no standard to draft projects, they didn't exist. There was no control of the works, there was no kind of application where you could synthesize or you could control everything that has to do with the execution of the works. That's why I'm surprised you said so. And look, if you also commented here, you also commented on the check-up in your hand. I don't have any checks. Well, I've got mine, but it's very small. I don't have any checks. The check-checker is neither mine nor the German Government, it's from the Germans. And do you know why the check is from the Greeks? Because they saved, and when there was no money spent no more than it was necessary, the expenses were adjusted. We do that very well for the Greeks, to be responsible, and when we don't have money, we don't spend it. And now, the result of being responsible and realistic is that we have a fund, a small prize, a small prize. Yes, and that little prize is materialized and taken to educational centers. [[Applause]] But I'm not going with any check-checkers, be absolutely quiet that I'm not going with any check-checkers. What I would like to say, too, when you were talking about comparing yourself with the best ones, is that I think I also like comparing myself with the best ones always. Because you always try to get up. I'm not trying to compare myself to Andalusia, which is the worst. I'm trying to compare myself with the Basque Country. And we compare ourselves in everything. Compare some of your fears and see them in the Basque Country. There's a lot of data you usually question. Go to the Basque Country and ask about the network of concerted centers, ask what's in the Basque Country and ask what's in Galicia or what's in Andalusia. And see what you're compared to. And you also compare, curiously, with France and the Nordic countries, with Sweden and Finland. In Finland we can go to the centers and see the autonomy of the centers, which you question. Either we go to France, or we go to Sweden, and we're going to look at what you barely call revalids if they do in primary and secondary. You know, go to France and you'll see how there's diagnostic evaluations, exactly like in the Nordic countries. And you question them here. If compared to one thing, it's compared globally; because if not, the comparison result is small. And there is a question that I cannot admit to you, that I cannot generally admit to you in the debates that have been raised, that is to question the bet that was made both by quality and by educational excellence – which has been seen in the results obtained compared to previous years – and in relation to equity. I return to the example of school failure: more than 25% to just over 16%. There's nothing more anti-equity than school failure, there's no school failure. And there's nothing more anti-equity than not having an inclusive education. And this administration has fixed and is making an inclusive educational model. There's still a lot of weaknesses, but there's a number of very important professionals who are looking at the inclusion of those students with special educational needs; around 3,000, which is not a smaller number, is not a number to be overlooked. And of course we need to update and improve a lot of questions, of course. But, look, you've been constantly posing and saying that it's more socially fair - and this debate we've had so many times - the book lending system that you had that the system that we have, based on income, is, I say, the social democracy of Marx and Engels. He has no explanation. In any case, I also tell you that they have to update, they have to update. Because you were talking about the fall of public employment. We have 1,112 places in the oppositions for this course, 1,112, which is not a small number; 100% of the replacement rate. That I will remind you, Mr Docasar, that the one who put the 10% replenishment rate was the Socialist Party. Operating expenses are downgraded as well. This year we are increasing operating expenditure in all centres. You're talking about equipment, and I'm just telling you that we're going to dedicate an important part of this fund of surplus materials to robotics. Last year we also spent over 2 million on materials for vocational training. I think it's data that speaks for itself, but, well, let's continue to deny the evidence. I'm done, but allow me, with all modesty, to defend the work that has been done in recent years since the Council of Education and since the Council of Galicia. When I defend that work, I don't defend the work of politicians, no, I don't defend my work or that of my predecessor. I defend the work of the management team, I defend the work of everyone and each of the civil servants of the educational administration, from the deputy directors or the chief inspectors to the orders. I defend the work of the more than 30,000 teachers who have public education. I also defend the work of the concerted education, of the effort made in the concerted education, of the teachers of the concerted education. I defend the families involved in teaching themselves, not those who somehow participate in other interests. I defend inspectors, directors, mentors, tutors, and even defend the work done by some trade union organizations when they pose fair targets, non-objectives and purposes of another kind. And I think that we all – and that is the key – must be proud of the good educational system we have, which is better, of course, but we have achieved a good education system. And if we're all able to understand that it's been remarkably advanced in equity, equal opportunities, quality and excellence in recent years, I think we'll have a lot going on. It's true that there must be discrepancies, and it's positive, but ultimately, as a country and as a society, we must be proud of the work done, not by me as a counselor or by the Government, but by all the huge numbers of people who are involved in the education process and who have shown us with their work that, strictly, seriously, with planning, with method and with model, it's possible to improve education as it has been done. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u79	Thank you, Counselor. Round of clarifications. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u80	Thank you, President. I ask you, since you are constantly talking about accounts of realism, what realism, the magical realism of literature? Obviously, the Government has to be concerned about improving the quality of compulsory education, but it's its duty, it's not a merit. I've already said it in other previous shows. And I ask you again: Is public compulsory education shielded? I believe that in most developed countries, the so-called first-world countries, there is concern about compulsory public education, and virtually all the material – as I said in the first intervention – is free. I don't think we're talking about charity, right, because it's a policy that you apply to all the fields. Then, coming back to the issue of reforming centers, updating and setting up new schools, the time it took to do this post-to-do also increased spending. Let's get back to what needs to be done a little bit. It doesn't seem like it's too good for us to get close to him, a constructive critique. You guys want to look in the mirror and say everything works fine. With regard to school failure, I'm going back to the point that it comes, above all, from the great economic crisis, because all families are not at the same level. In fact, there were other sets of measures against this. You apply incoherent measures. Now it looks like they're starting to boil a little bit, as we're moving closer to the elections. I don't know if you've done a DAFO analysis of your advice on what measures they're going to apply, or what they're missing for them to apply, which is enough. And I repeat again that with the subject of languages and economic resources, it seems that we still have a complex of Welsh and Greek, don't we? You want to transmit that. Because they don't go to other communities that don't have that kind of problem. Besides, they're inclusive, even for foreigners who go to those lands. You have to comment that you speak of the high quality, but you also forget that there is a great claim from the specific guidance teams, which I did not mention in the first intervention, because it is understood that the current distribution of these equipment by each province is obsolete, because the current population reality is not taken into account. There was a need for a review of the structure of the specific guidance teams through their comarcaalization, seeking that they existed for every 20,000 students; or at least, as an emergency measure, that there was a team in the seven cities of Greece. Another topic is also the school dining room, which advocates money, does not advocate quality. And we have a great problem with that, with the equalization of student equality measures, and, above all, with the subject of nutrition, which would be another subject, but it's also included in education, the counsellor that you preside over. We're also talking about our continued mercantilization, classism, privatization, neoliberal politics. It's less bad that we have good professionals, about whom most of the lack of education has its own, despite the fact that they've cut their salaries and other rights. We also know that a lot of administrative staff are missing, even people who have to do a job that is not theirs. And then I also get a lot of attention – and it has already been mentioned – the fact of the donations, which are practically invisible, in the teaching material; but not only from the teaching material directly from the study but from what is the investment made in libraries, which practically live of charity, are obsolete. And I also point to the improvement of online platforms. Today we're in an interactive world, and also a way of supporting that which is physical assistance to class are the educational portals, because we are also approached and also covering the walls of geographic diversity that Galicia suffers, which often does not take into account, even when projecting training cycles, which seems to us to go back to antiquity, the other time, again having to study in the capital. Also another thing that would be missing, and I don't know if they're taking it into account, I repeat, is that many of the centers are not up-to-date in terms of accessibility to people with disabilities. I put it there because I don't know if this is contemplated. There's still a lot to change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u82	Today, Mr. Farínas illustrated us in a special way by quoting the studies of the American psychologist Elisabeth Loftus on the illusions of memory. I think this reference is especially relevant, because these studies were based on analyzing two mechanisms that act and are primarily activated in human memory. The first of them is misinformation, which is based on the introduction of misinformation postevent; that is, there is an event and an account is built that distorts what really happened. And a second mechanism, which is the false rich memories, which is nothing but changing the past of events. And it's just that this is part of the two essential pillars of the Italian Government, it's very curious; it's part of the headbook of the German Government. I understand, therefore, that mention is made of this study. It's, of course, clarifier. But the reality is that people, in spite of everything, despite the mechanisms that work in human memory, have memory and remember. Remember that you cut 400 million euros in teaching, remember that you abolished 1,250 teachers and teachers, remember that at the time when more difficulties were going on, when many families had difficulty filling their refrigerators with food, you set up a compensation in school dining rooms. And they also remember that at that very moment when the family economies were going through their worst moments you made a loan system disappear that would save money to the Galician Union and bring materials to all the children and to all the children. That is the reality, as the reality is that the families of the Vite CEIP students – a center here, surrounded by this Parliament – cannot lead many of their children to out-of-school or excursions because they don't have a support teacher who can accompany them. And that's what this center is a reference center, a preferred school, for students with special educational needs. That's the educational reality, Counselor, of which you always forget to talk. We were also illustrated by Mr. Farinas – here he passed, I recognize him – about the philosophy of the Precartes. You referred to a new philosophical school. He forgot to talk about the Presycratics, the Presycratics, Mr. Farinas. But, yes, he answered us to an essential philosophical question, and that's what the snails are. It was his great contribution to today's debate. And no wonder, I'm not surprised that you quote the Precartes, because we have to bear in mind that their government, the Government of Wales, the Government of the People's Party, is eradicating philosophy in school – and so we have hair – and it's replacing it with subjects like that of entrepreneurship, since primary education. But, well, that's how we all get hair. You did, of course, an intervention which from my point of view is difficult to clarify. Mr. Pombo made himself a storyteller – I think it is quite exhaustive – about the headlines that accompanied this surplus fund that, as I say, even exceeds the theories of psychologist Elizabeth Loftus. But he forgot a headline – for me, well, one of the most illustrative – that of O Correo Galego, which said: "Millions rain for social purposes in Galicia." Of course, an exercise of journalistic accuracy, a rain of millions that includes, of course, a baby check of 1,200 euros for each child who is born. Yes, then we commemorate the Zapatero Government, but at the time of the election, we know it's all good, Mr. Fariñas. And he said that if we could question some of the data he had said or put on the table, on this rostrum -- a gallery that, allow me, Mr. Farinhas, was a little shaken after his intervention -- he referred to whether we could question some of the data of the counsellor. Well, I'm going to question two, two of the most important: first, RAM expenses, repair costs, expansion and improvement of child education recorded in the budgets of Galicia. Exercise 2010, repair, expansion and improvement costs in primary education centres, 13 million euros; 2016, 2.5 million euros, i.e. a reduction of more than 10 million euros. Repair, expansion and improvement costs in secondary education and vocational training, EUR 10 million in 2010, EUR 1.1 million in 2016; we are talking about a reduction of EUR 20 million, Mr Farínas. And to finish with a question that you always refer to and that I have already clarified in the Commission: dropout. The highest drop-out rates at the time prescribed were in communities such as Valencia, Balearic Islands and Canary Islands. Why? There was a real estate boom, a very important urban boom that attracted the student who had accumulated a school failure file, that is, he was 16, 17, 18 or more years old, who had repeated courses and who, in a market where it was very easy to access a job – in many cases with good wages – abandoned the education system. So what has changed in so few years to improve school dropout figures from their perspective? For it has improved the ability of the system to retain the student on an absolutely impossible working horizon, with two mechanisms that accompany this circumstance: dual FP and basic FP, which allow you to decentrate this image.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u83	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u84	Because we all know that school failure, dropout, don't fight in so little time. We have a normative framework which is the same for Andalusia that for the Basque Country and the figures of school failure or dropout are radically opposed: same law, different results. What's the reality? That's right, that they deminuate the top headlines; that's right, because families can't pay the tuition and because they're precariousing the education system. Yes, Europe does not demand Galician university degrees because what it needs are low-skilled workers. And you're being servants of these demands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u85	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u86	...and that's betraying Galicia and betraying the Greek people. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u87	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u88	Thank you, President. Counselor, today that I spoke of the two feet, you tell me about the three wrongs; and I spoke of propaganda and advertising because it rains on wet, they often put many things on paper that will then not be fulfilled. And if you want to talk about errors, we're talking about errors: errors in budgets in public services; theft of the majority to refinance the bank – which is yes, for that there are money – and misappropriation of delays in the demands of educational communities. So, I'm going to stop rhetoric and I'd like to thank -- not for anything -- for not talking to me about the surplus bottom because, after talking about measurable cuts that are counted in billions of euros... I know everyone has cut, but that, after all, you're here talking to me about 20 surpluses is that it's an insult, I think, to intelligence. So, thank you for not repeating to me the subject of surplus and I'm not going to talk about other matters. But I'm going to go to realism, and I appreciate you making an intervention on the topic of the Barco Pavilion – by the way, you just announced it here at parliamentary headquarters, and I would like it to be fulfilled after the demands of the educational community. But let's go to realism: CEIP of Culleredo, 30,000 inhabitants, there is already an budget until 2018; the parents, the educational community and the Full Council unanimously – including the People's Party – claim from the Council that the project was declared urgent so that – practically – would come into operation in the 2017-2018 course. So, tell us here if this important CEIP, with 450 students, would give solution, Mr. Farinha, to several barracks and give solutions to classes that are in the housing of the concierge, that would be positive, that the whole educational community demands, tell them from here – who are worried and listening, the parents – that the Council will make it possible to start in the 2017-2018 course in this Culleredo CEIP. I would also like, and go to practice, with practical things...: CEIP Annex de Lugo, 450 students, promise, both the University of Compostela and the Union itself, that I know in 2013 a new building would run to host, at least, all childhood education, which would be of interest to the center of the city of Lugo. This is 2016, Counselor. So, it's a promise that I suppose you will be able to say something here also to the educational community of the CEIP of the Annex to Lugo, who spoke – I mean – at that time to build a new building for 2013, to guarantee the continuity of this center, not to cut in quality and not to reduce spaces or registrations in this center. The CEIP Abbot Lamas: we already know that you are in contact with the Town Hall, but the educational community knows that, towards the next course, a measure – let's say – of urgency to unfold, but that center is called to have one more line. So this year is the first, but for next year there's got to be another in second, third... so, of course, so they're worried that towards the 2017 course too... Hey, the Town Hall, I don't know what's going on with the housing, I don't know what's going on, everything's going on. So, I'd like you here, right now that you're talking about these new investments, to clarify such an interesting subject. You spoke in your intervention of inclusion, so important that, of course, the BNG is defending it. But here too there was an initiative on the CEIP San Pedro de Visma, a CEIP of the Coruña, a reference center for students with mobility problems – many small people walk in wheelchairs – and there they need an improvement in access, they need a new gymnasium and they need improvements in the dining room that are never met despite the fact that many times they say in the papers: no, we are already, as soon as there is a new game this is solved. And Julio Gurriarán's sports pavilion already tells me that... he didn't say when, but they're on the subject. And to me, already to go to the end – which I see is the end of time – I get a lot of attention that when there are musical references around here everyone laughs as they devalue the topic of music. And to me, of course, it doesn't make me much fun about it. I would also like, to the thread of the debate, by the way, to illustrate to us the counselor whether the expansion of the Compostela Conservatory is planned, which is a long demand of the educational community – that of the Conservatory – and also today is the opportune time for the advisor to commit himself in practice and with realism to such an important thing, in a thing like music, which is a universal language, which we can all understand around the world thanks to music. And by the way, some are so funny.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u89	Quiet, please. There's a lot of murmuring in the room. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u90	They shouldn't be very interested in the subject...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u91	Yes, you can see it very clearly. Please, you can keep silence because it bothers you a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u92	And I'm done, Counselor. I think that million-dollar investment for robotics is very good. But I also tell you that the most important robotics for teaching – you know – is the teacher. And you also know, better than me, Counselor, that there is a lot of professor... these thousands who have gone retired, bored, for lack of consideration, for lack of support and out of respect - I dare say - even from the council itself. I, of course, finished saying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u93	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u94	...that I came here talking about the two pesos, propaganda and advertising, because we're already a little full of the multimillionaire figures, and then there are the errors of delays, of works, that never come to the educational communities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u96	I am grateful, of course, that those remarks I made to you about Culleredo, the Annex...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u97	Thank you, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u98	...and St. Peter of Visma, at least make a reference, and to the Conservatory of Music of Santiago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u100	Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u101	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u102	All right, thank you, president. Counselor, I will try to be less aggressive, then, than in the first part of my intervention; it seems to have bothered you my aggression today. Well, I want to take this second turn to make some concrete contributions – as I always do – that we have done, by the way, at their moment, when you presented the so-called Strategic Plan 2015-2020. We then understood, Mr. Counsellor, that we were in front of a document elaborated in detail and, from my responsibility, as a spokesman for Education of the Socialist Group, we have provided a number of ideas that, as always, have been rejected and rejected; and as I am very predictable, today I will take the opportunity to do them again in parliamentary office and in front of you. They were then, and today they are very concrete ideas to improve that 2015-2020 strategic document. What are we proposing in particular, Counselor? We proposed, first of all, to increase the educational budget over the next five years in 600 million euros to recover with facts – and not only with the chequer in hand that presents us today – a level of educational investment that equips us with the most successful countries of our economic-cultural environment and to move us progressively to an investment of 5% of GDP in the next five years, and with the ultimate idea of reaching an educational investment of 7% of GDP in 2025, which is completely different from what you have signed and committed to the European Commission, which is to raise in 2019 – which we are around the corner – that education investment to 3.7% of GDP. And to make, in particular, counsellor? We were saying that these 120 million euros plus a year should be used: to arrange, indeed, many educational buildings that have become obsolete because of the lack of proper maintenance during the austere stage; to make a policy of scholarships sufficient, and that no young person or girl with a capacity, not money, can access higher education; to gradually recover the teaching staff – usually, that is what we also ask for – and the labor and professional conditions seized by the professor in recent years; to eliminate the digital divide between educational centers of the cities and rural centers, ensuring also the drastic reduction of school dropout – of course, I would also like to have the fact that we have a percentage of success in the basic FP, now will end the first promotion. Tell me what percentage started in the first course and what is the percentage of success now that we have them there and that they will end up in the first promotion. I say that for that kind of study, finally, it doesn't just turn into a parking lot, it improves school failure figures and then they're cheating. He also said, a fifth point, to have complementary services of quality, eating and transport in school, that really facilitate the reconciliation of the population and family; a sixth point, to achieve a level of knowledge of foreign languages that can be approved to the rest of the European Union, facilitating foreign language immersion stays for teachers and students; a seventh point, so that all children who are studying compulsory education contain textbooks and school material – and here a quote, the draft textbook, universal loan, reached 100% of the population, Counsellor, and it was cheaper than what they now have, which call solidarity gratuitity, is a devious system even in the very designation of the word –. An eighth point, to regain linguistic consensus and investment in the Greek language; a ninth point, to recover the talent emigranted for lack of expectations and a tenth point, finally, to achieve a pact stable for education and with real ability to last in time, that prevents the permanent disaster from changing the law every time a government changes. Mr Counsellor, in order to do things like these you could tell the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to make propaganda using the Members and Members of this House as extras, for that, of course not. Counselor, a fact I used to have, too, my companion Manel. Zone of Vigo, Nigrán, Baiona, Mos and Gondomar: It can't be that in a municipality you invest 2,000 euros or 9,000 euros, and in the neighbouring municipalities, which are governed by the People's Party, we have investments of 100,000 or 200,000 euros. That's discrimination. And I'm done, too, saying, you're a professor of Human Geography and you know the concept of 'per capita'. Of course, of course, the city of Vigo, the city of Ourense, the city of Lugo, will have more investment than Negueira de Muñiz, it is obvious, but, of course, it is an obvious thing that should also be noted. By the way – and I'm done with this, it would be a final fact – right now, before I come here to talk to you and to have this debate, a director of an institute in the province of Lugo sends me an app and tells me, textually, that today, June 7th, the educational centers, from the province of Lugo at least, did not receive a single euro of their operating expenses, the second shipment that must receive the centers, which is about a month late, and I ask you here, at parliamentary headquarters, that from tomorrow you give orders to pay them to the centers – who think it's not only Place, will be all Galicia, because if it were only Lugo, it would be double-cooked." For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u103	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Docasar, you have received an app, I have a message. Public school student, Paloma Eiroa, who, if you're listening to me, I greet her: "Tell your colleagues there to see if you can convince my teachers to take me on a trip." It's settled, isn't it, Mr. Vázquez? We're not going to go deep into it, because I know you didn't mean what you meant in this gallery. But we're going into matter, which is what we have to do. If you have anything to say about the Precartesians, please tell your neighbor on the scene, which was what the Precartes mentioned in the other commission the other day. And if you have anything to say about schoolwork, tell him, too, because that's not the case. I just referred to it to do then the reference I made, that if you didn't like it or you haven't been to the intellectual height of what you're used to, for, I seek another or I withdraw it, I don't care. Anyway, you failed again. I told you, as I told you on another occasion, to come to the gallery and tell you just one of the indicators that measure the quality of education, one, that it had not improved in the time of the People's Party's government. The other time you came out for peteresses and came here and talked about infantry schools, which are not part of education – as I told you then – that they belong to social policy. And today he comes here talking about euros. What measurement indices do you find the economic principle? Absolutely none; none. And if you want me to call Hanushek – which I suppose you'll like too. It says schools don't mind the principle of investment but the principle of quality of education, and that can't be achieved without quality teachers. And all he says in that sense, Hanushek, speaking of money, is that schools with fewer students, the only ones that are more expensive, but they have no better results. If you contradict Hanushek, I'm delighted, but I transfer what he can say here. And, after all, if we talk about euros, the Counsellor put something meridianly clear on the table today. Of course, a sentence he coined about doing more with less is true, but it's only that now, Counselor, if I'm allowed to use that phrase that you used when you spoke to this parliamentary group, now that I am, I'm going to say, and now I hope that the next sentence they usually stumble from the opposition benches to attack you is: do a lot more with a little more. Since we did much less, now with a little more we will do a lot more, which is what is expected of a responsible administration, that the only thing you did during these years was improve Galicia's education system, both in its quality and equity – there are the data there, I don't say, tell OECD, tell it the IVIE report, based, by the way, on its PISA report. In equity, the world's second education system, the second, measured by the OECD. In real equity, you go through the... the only Spanish Autonomous Community, along with the Basque Country, which reaches a number of parameters that can be approved by the world leader, which is Finland, which is 107 points; we are 106.9. I mean, real equity, that's not what I'm saying. So if you don't like equity, Mr. Docasar, of course, we end up with the "coffee for all" that Galicia normally had at the time of the previous Government, "coffee for all" and coffee still of poor quality. Now there's coffee for everyone of good quality, for those who can't afford it, and those who can afford it, because they actually pay it. And that's fairness, the other one's injustice. The other one is injustice, this is equity. Fellowships: equity, Mr. Docasar. Of course, they can study the children of the least disadvantaged families; with the best scholarship plan in the entire history of this country, with 1,470 million euros, 260 million euros more than in the last economic exercise of the former president of the Socialist Government, who does not like the name. All right? And still above, Galicia also complements solidarity – because it has sufficient funds – a specific scholarship for these students does not meet the criteria of the MEC territory, as it is usually called, right? Galicia. They're all included in it. Therefore, equity, all; and possibilities, all; and solidarity, all. To which it is possible, because here it seems that many voices rise up here and do not realize that, indeed, we spent a time when there was no abundance, there was more shortage. Of course, Mr. Counsellor has already told you, 10%, but who put it? The socialist government. Who suffered it? All the autonomous communities that didn't allow us. And now it says, here one of 4,000, Mr. Pombo, 4,000; Mr. Vázquez – more objective – uses the figure, 1,260...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u105	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u106	... indeed, Mr. Vázquez. What's the public job offer this year? What was last year's public job offer? It's over 1,200, because we're going to 1,600. As soon as we were left, as at the sectoral conference, the councillor repeatedly requested, with the PSOE and with the PP, he achieved it with the PP, unfortunately for you,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u107	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u108	...from 10 to 50, and this year for the first time 100%, and it runs 100%, and there will be the replacement, which is the figure of the public job offer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u109	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Fariñas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u110	Therefore, Counselor, thank you very much for your explanations, for your dedication and for your correctness of taking the steps you have brought us here today. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u111	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Close this meeting, Mr. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u112	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, we're in Galicia, we're not in Macondo, and I won't be the one to say that everything works perfectly, I never said it in this gallery and I'm not going to say it. Now, neither do you deny that in recent years you have made remarkable progress in the education system. What's a lot left to do? Yeah, sure, and you have to, sure. Now, what can't be denied – because it's not credible, nobody believes it – is that in recent years, in general, many public services, but in particular the educational service, has advanced remarkably, and notably in many variables. And, of course, they talked about why they'll remember these years. For surely, many children, many children, when they are not such children, men and women, will remember that it was a time when their classes arrived computer equipment, digital screens; it was the moment when they arrived some young people, some young people and girls speaking English to lots of public centers, to four hundred and peak. Perhaps it's time they also remember that materials arrive to study robotics, or other kinds of absolutely modern equipment. They may also remember that it was the moment when their family stopped paying for dining, because the public network was expanded by capturing many dining rooms that were of ANPA, where they all paid regardless of their income, and now families with less resources stopped paying, they will probably remember it. They will remember, too, how subjects have been launched I think very interesting for the current context: programming, robotics, landscape, heritage, free configuration subjects, perhaps they remember it. And they will also remember, at best, students with special educational needs, who had reinforcement programs, that there were protocols that led to education in that kind of model, in autism, in TDH, they'll probably remember that. And maybe they don't remember that there's more or less budget compared to the year 2009, because that, at the end, stays here, but what they're probably going to remember is these things. And that's a positive balance, which I think we should assume, because we never deny it, there's less RAM than before, of course there's less RAM than before, but this has been said hundreds of times, many times. Now what we can't do is try to undervalue a data as important as reducing school dropout. It's a fundamental fact, it's trying to say bah!, it wasn't about the education system. Home! I think you should know the program contracts, for example, or the improvements in vocational training. And, above all – which they like to compare with other territories – because they look at how they are in other autonomous communities, and especially – because for you it is all the same and it was not worth this Government – because you look at how it came down from 2009 to today in Galicia compared to other territories. From there on, there comes an account, which is really a little superfluous all you can say. And, of course, Mr. Pombo also tells us that we don't talk about surpluses, that we don't talk about investments and that we're talking about other things. And you quoted Cherres and I quote Cherres again. I think, too, it's more synthetic. There's a renewal of the model, the mistake of the model's renewal. Since 2009 there has been a renewal of the model, we say: more languages, more ICTs, more FP; but perhaps the most important, in addition to this, is perhaps the adoption of transversal measures in the educational system, measures that were oriented to educational innovation, which were oriented to the autonomy of the centres, which were oriented to a greater culture of effort, which were oriented to greater attention to diversity, greater coexistence, greater equity, those transversal contents, which are seen in all variables, I think are an example of renewal. The error, the error, too, of relaunching education, which has relaunched itself by improving all and each of the basic indexes that can define a good model of education. Now, do we agree? No, we have to keep improving, but there was a remarkable recovery in educational variables. Efficient reallocation error and public resources. I think that if you can assume that, humbly, you can assume that it's a very effective and very efficient management of public resources, and that it has materialized in multiple effects. For example, school transportation is not the condition for a child to have free access to a service, that is income, why? Because it's much more socially equitable, no doubt. Whether you go by bus or the distance where a child resides from his educational center, it's not a fair variable. It's much more fair than income, no doubt. Another mistake, the absolute mistake of respect to the professor, to a vast collective, more than 30,000 professionals in the public system. And I've also said earlier, about the professor of arranged education, about 5,000, between 4,000 and 5,000, and also about the university professor, absolutely about this whole collective, which is the fundamental basis of the system. Well, in the end, you also told us about many centers, specific centers. You'll understand that I can't answer everyone, we're talking about 219 municipalities, 683 performances, 527 educational centers; but I'm going to answer some -- because he did fincapé -- to two or three more: the CEP of Culleredo has a share of 800,000 euros for new work; the project is being drafted, it's about to be presented, there's no failure, that's on the plan, in the Infrastructure Plan. And you're talking about Lugo and it says as if Lugo hadn't invested in it, if Lugo is the most investment you've received in 2016 and you've received a lot in recent years!, very much, why? Because it's necessary, simple and plain, because there's educational needs and they're covered. Who rules in Lugo? The People's Party? No, with which all you talk about sectarianism, partisanism, etc., because, really, when you put the data on the table, it falls. There's also some data that has been cited here from Vigo's creek. Nigrán. Mr. Docasar, if you don't allow goals, if you don't allow goals. [[Laughter]] I mean, the corners of the mermaids or the serams, the noses, they don't get to the right place. In Nigeria we will invest €230,000; and we have made an agreement with the Council of Niger in which I was perfectly informed that they would invest in the secondary centre more than EUR100,000 and the primary centre, compactly between the chief territorial and the mayor, they were talking about a very small investment – in primary – but that they were compensated with the secondary centre, because it was really where there was a need to do it. From there on, that was used as an excuse for what you and I know and that, as I've already told you, nothing happens to a rabies. That's why I tell you that – with all affection – you don't let go of goals. But in any case – and it's over – I think what we just presented is an important fund for Welsh education. We're talking between the surplus fund and what was already planned – because it could be done now and not before – of 39.7 million euros; almost 40 million euros. The surplus fund, we're talking about half, of about 50%, of 20,8. And I repeat the data: 683 performances, 527 educational centers, 219 municipalities. I mean, there's a treatment that can now be done and that can't be done before, very positive for educational institutions and, essentially, for students and teachers who go to these educational centers. And I think it would be a good thing that, once and for all, we were able to recognize that Greek education has improved considerably. What's left to improve? Yes, but it's been a remarkable improvement in recent years. And about the bottom of responsibility, which almost gives the feeling, after listening to you, that's almost an aberration. I think, if we're talking about education, well we could make a similar one, right? When a student is responsible, he attends in class, he studies, he tries hard, he usually gets good grades, right? Well, the Greek Government, like the vast majority of the Greeks, is also reliable, it is also responsible, it is also striving and fulfilling, it meets seriously, and ultimately also has a good note. And this good note in education is called 20.8 million euros, which we think is a note, let's not say it's honor plate but it's a very, very high note; and that very, very high note is the result of responsibility and the work done. Because in the end, if we add that 20 to what we already had, we're talking about 40. And, I insist, honor plate won't be me who says it, but it's a very high note, as long as you try to deny it, I think the file like that will reflect it. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u113	Thank you, Counselor. We suspended the session until 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u114	We start the session with the third item on the agenda, which corresponds to the motions. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the application in Galicia of the primary education revals provided for in LOMCE, its normative development and its implementation calendar
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u115	This motion was amended by the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block and by the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u116	Mr Vázquez has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. The fact is that the debate on the question, with which this motion is based, held in the past full, has left an inn, a halo, certainly worrying in this House, at least for the Gaga de Left Alternative Group. The Greek Government, in the voice of the Education Adviser, accused us directly, pointed out to us as the culprits of the important, very high and recognized level of absenteeism and rejection against the revalids, made us maximums responsible for this civil disobedience movement, and we clearly told him that citizenship had its own criteria and therefore acted on the basis of its own analysis of reality. We are concerned that the Government recognizes the Glaga Alternative of Left more social impact than the Government itself, when it has all institutional mechanisms and also -- why not say so? -- of all media mechanisms to extend and make known its line of action, in many cases, of course, unfair, as in the case it deals with us. The truth is that these accusations were made by the German Government when the reality is that the highest responsibility for the level of absenteeism, the level of rejection against the revalids, was the high degree of irresponsibility of the Government itself. It imposed absolutely groundbreaking revalids which involved, on the one hand, the failure of the LOMCE itself, which clearly established that the revalids were evidence of an external nature and which would therefore have to be applied by outside staff to the centres themselves, which, of course, did not be done in Galicia, were the masters of each educational centre responsible for applying them. Secondly, there was a lack of clarity and openness in the work of continuous, systematic and formative evaluation that is being carried out in the centres, which is to be understood, allowing us to find out, that evaluation that is done in the centers is not enough to detect the difficulties of learning the students themselves and, consequently, the needs of the centre itself. They also underestimated the work of teachers and teachers, who demanded certain interventions by the Educational Administration and who have always been ignored, and more now – they say – that it is the revamped mechanism to know what these needs are. And finally, they were horrendous because they tried to coerce families in an absolutely unprovely way, because the children who didn't make the third-party revals already knew they had no impact on them and on them and, therefore, on their children. The result was a sound failure, a failure that the Government recognized in 40% of absenteeism, but that the confederations and associations of mothers and parents of students establish above 60% of those days, the days of realization of the revalids. So we are faced with a serious situation that has to make the Government of Greece reflect, we understand that in an exercise of obligation for a government that is called democratic. Alternative Left-Galga warned of these facts, and warned of it in addition to the past course. At this stage, at this stage of this absolutely absurd process, we believe that it is clear that the revalids applied lack validity, lack reliability and lack scientific rigour. The sample used for the application of those standardized tests is invalid because there is a level of follow-up of the absolutely variable and different revalids in each of the educational centers. So it's impossible to compare magnitudes, compare centers or draw conclusions from such unequally applied tests. They therefore lack reliability, since even there are centers that have not directly carried out these tests; therefore, one cannot draw conclusions applied to the whole of the education community in Galicia. And they lack scientific rigor, and it's not just that the Alternative Left Galeg, right now, these days, but today in the media, and earlier through their own communiqué, the Galaga Association of the Professor of Mathematics did an absolutely rigorous analysis of the sixth revals in relation to matter, competition, mathematics. In this analysis, absolutely, as I say rigorously, they clearly stated that the sixth revolutions in the field, in the mathematical area, were totally inaccurate, too long, that they set response times of a minute forty seconds for each of the items, so that it was absolutely impossible for a child of that level, for a child of that course, to perform complex operations, to consult graphs, to apply formulas, to make even changes in units at that time that were left. The Professor of Mathematics, the Association of the Professor of Mathematics, found absolute errors in the drafting of the utterances; poorly drafted utterances, which contained errors – mistakes of content, but also errors of planning –. They found errors such as that even units of volume were mixed with weight units, thus confusing the student; or that he was inducing himself to confusion with the student through a series of questions that were systematically asked to choose the correct option, and suddenly, by means of a little to half of the gazebo, they were changed to find the false option. They were also asked to perform decimal operations – I insist, primary sixth – without being able to use a calculator; thus demanding something that escapes to their academic and educational level. The narrative and the study that makes the revalids the Association of Professors of Mathematics is directly to start crying. It is unworthy that in an educational system, where we are so lacking in resources, where we are so in need of time to develop new methodologies, new modes of learning, and to have material time to give meaningful, individualized learning, which allows us to find, design and establish intervention mechanisms for those children who have learning difficulties, if it forces children to pass tests that are poorly designed and that contain errors of this caliber. We said at the time that the revals were anti-pedagogical, but we would never imagine that, besides being anti-pedagogical, they were an aberration from the scientific and conceptual design point of view. But there is one element that I want to make very clear here today and that I would like it to be assessed by all Members and by all Members. We have record, we have knowledge, of a very serious fact, how there were families who already knew the questions of the revals prior to their realization. There was filtration of your own questions before they were carried out. And there are even more serious cases of centers that did not carry out the revamps on the days marked for this purpose and that, being these tests done or applied three, four or five days later, of course, they already had the families and children who knew which were the questions because they were already published in the media. How can one draw conclusions from this disguise, from this artifice of evaluation in external theory? Clearly, the conclusions, the results of these revalides, cannot be taken into account by the Greek Government for the reasons I have said. So we understand that, in an exercise of responsibility, the minimum that should be done by the Government is to assume this failure of validity, this lack of opportunity, but also the ability that the Government may have to draw conclusions, and to give, of course, by failing to apply the revamps of this exercise. We believe that this would reassure at least families who, by exercising that right, also have their children to receive the application of those tests, at least feel unharmed, because, in addition to the families who exercised that right to insubmission, we also have to have the families who took their children that day feel deeply deceived, and have the right to rectify themselves. That is why, therefore, we intend to endorse the motion with these three points: on the one hand, to assume the failure of the LOMCE revalids, not to take into account its results, this year; on the other hand, to request the convening of the Sectoral Bureau of Education so that, if it is, of course, to paralyze, if it suspends, the implementation calendar of LOMCE, because these claws will continue to persist in the normative development of this law, and, thirdly, to paralyze the normative development of LOMCE in Galicia for the next course 2016-2017 in the form of decrees or rules, subsidiary orders...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u118	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u119	...that the Greek Government has applied or plans to apply. We believe this is an exercise of responsibility for the Government because you can't continue to play with children and children and not fool families. We hope this initiative will be taken, especially by the group that supports the Government. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u120	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u121	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego once again expresses its position in this Parliament on the evidence of the evaluation of LOMCE, the revalids, by the student of third and more sixth primary; and, secondly, on LOMCE, the most corrosive law for the public education of Greek, the true cancer for our Greek education system, as I showed in this same gallery on May 11th, the day that the tests of final primary evaluation began. At that moment I called from this Parliamentary House, first of all, to listen to the Welsh educational community, which once again demanded to urgently paralyze the application of LOMCE in Galicia, and also the revals, of course. And, secondly, to urge the Government of the State to derogate from this LOMCE, because we understood that the revalidity of the end of primary and but the third of the past May was rejected by the Welsh educational community, which considered – this community – that the logic, normal and responsible should be that the Council paralysed the realization of these tests, firstly because the education community in Galicia did not want them and, secondly, because there is a majority of the professor who considers an aberration, from the pedagogical point of view, to subject the student to unnecessary pressure by evidence that they do not regard education as a comprehensive process in which to consider the personal circumstances, socio-economics and the abilities and attitudes of the student. Also because they despise the continuous evaluation and the opinion of the tutor or tutor and the teaching team, who are better aware of the shortcomings, potentialities, skills and skills of the student, as well as the means, resources and support needed to improve learning and school performance, as much as they tell us that this test is to detect problems – thirdly, they don't detect themselves before –. Third, the Welsh ANPA also roundly rejects the evidence because it causes a state of unnecessary tension, because it discriminates against the student with special educational needs, because families are not taken into account in the participation of their children's education and their daughters and because the greater will cause unnecessary expenditure – by the way – after more than seven years of continued cuts in Greek public education. If the 11th of May manifested this, today I reiterate the same, in addition, after checking how the vast majority of the education community in Greece rejected – I say – roundly to LOMCE and the revamped ones, after checking how most of the students in public centers, the vast majority, have been absent from some revamped prejudices for public education in Greece, after checking that even there were filtrations of part of the evidence in the written press – more than enough reason to declare them null – today even comes the Galaga Association of Professor of the Mathematics Area a little diverting these evidences that here sold us as the universal panacea and after checking, of course, that the application of LOMCE in Galicia is to be a genuine disatiny, absolutely. I already say that today I support the withdrawal of LOMCE because it is negative for the quality of the education system and because it seeks the selection and labelling of the student, with evidence that recalls the revalids of past times and which are far from respectful of the differential factors of people and communities in a multinational state. BNG supports, of course, that the Board assumes the lack of validity of these revals, BNG also supports that the Board paralyzes the normative development of LOMCE in Galicia, but BNG understands that the Board must also urge the Government of the State to paralyze and subsequently repeal LOMCE and the revals. That's why we tabled an amendment to the motion of Alternative Left Galicia which I hope will be accepted, because LOMCE must be paralyzed, but must also be repealed. Nothing else. I hope you accept the amendment I just reported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u122	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. The People's Parliamentary Group has the floor Mr. Sobrino Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a fact that the Galician society, the Spanish society, has been claiming a consensus for years, you call it an agreement, you call it a pact, you call it whatever you want. And it is true that little political progress has been made in this regard. The different governments weren't lucky enough to count on support every time there was a law. All those who applied, socialists, up to the past course, who started the first law of education forged by a Government of the People's Party, but what is true is that he had no support from any other political group, not from other establishments belonging to the educational community, who participated in the drafting of the law and who at the same time gave him their support. But you don't think this is enough. In the past full we also tried, with another initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that this Parliament was the first parliament in Spain to achieve a unanimous consensus around a need for the Spanish educational system, which needs a continuous improvement in its quality, equity and commitment to reaffirm one of the fundamental values reflected in our constitutional principle of equal opportunities. It seems that, a little distance away, about 600 kilometers from here, someone had something more common sense, because at the University of Nebrija four representatives of the four major parties of Spain, of Citizens, of Podemos, of the Socialist Party and of the People's Party, if they reached a principle of agreement and signed an agreement for a state pact for education. Let's see if we today are able to reach a pact also from the Autonomous Community for the education of Galicia, which I know is subject to the designs and precepts of a national law, but that's the first step to begin with a law. And why do I say to continue with a law? Because in order to come to that covenant, you'll have to break something, and that thing will have to be what's in effect. What's in force is LOMCE, we're not in the LOMCE debate anymore, not LOMCE. That debate is over, and today we are in the debate of: yes agreement or agreement, no agreement or agreement. And we're going to have to be the voices representatives of political parties, and in governments, those who say whether that pact is possible or not. But, well, maybe we should forget, "you're not," "to see what part of him doesn't understand" and things like that. We're trying to forget what separates us, which is much less than we are. So if we are responsible and we are able to agree around what unites us – which I already insist that it is more than separate us – because we will do something for the education system and for the generations that come behind us and that they need confirmation of that equal opportunity of what I was talking about. But we, since in the morning we start with precartesians, Cartesians, sophisticians and so on, we follow that Cartesian maxim that says that when you are lost in a forest, you can stand still, you can start to one side and change direction in every corner you find or in every tree that you stand in front of you, or you can just grab straight and get to a place. It won't be the place I wanted to get to, but it's got somewhere, and from there it can go to another. Of course, standing still and turning around, you don't get anywhere, and the socialist laws here all they did was bring bad results, change direction continuously and not consolidate anything at all. That's where we got the worst results. Mr. Vázquez, who we were talking about in the morning, in those elements of evaluating the quality of the education system we reached the worst of our history, and the People's Party doesn't say it, tell it all the international reports, those that also refer to in its initiative. But we're here today with another message: we insist on all opposition groups to break the laws. We're in a legislative chamber, ladies and gentlemen, we have to comply with the laws, we must abide by them, and regardless of our obligation to comply, the pedagogical message that is being offered to the educators of this country is: if you have an exam, you don't go to school, or if there's a law, you may not do it. That is no pedagogical message, of course not in this Parliament, as much as Mr Sánchez takes the lead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u124	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u125	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, insisting that they speak of evidence of evaluation that they already recognize that they are not revalid, even though they are stubbornly repeating in spirit, I don't know whether they goeblieno or whether they can convince someone. However, Mr. Vázquez, Alternative Gaga de Left is responsible for action to convince, through a lie, the parents and mothers of students in this country not to be a proof that would provide more information, within the evaluation, for its continued correction, for their application of programme contracts or the necessary support measures that, this time, Madam President, will not be possible. And don't hide your hand, because now they're trying to blame families. Those responsible are the ones who illegally pressured those families. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u126	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u127	Good afternoon, ladies. Thank you very much, President, and good afternoon. The Greek families are not as manipulatable as the members of the People's Party think. What concept do you have of Greek citizenship so that it can be so manipulated? It is indeed offensive what the honourable Member of the People's Party says. Today we are debating the convenience – seriously – of keeping an educational law rejected by a very large number of unmanned, unmanned, Greek families, that, as it was verified with the realization of the proofs – or of the revalids as they want them – of 3rd and 6th primary, did not send their children to school, protesting and rejection of them. In public education 70% of the student didn't come to the test. These families made this decision informed freely and independently, not as in other stories of current politics. And why did they do this? They did this because the educational leaders gave no answer to the public education ANPA's mobilizations and demands, as well as the unions and most of the citizenship, which have been carried out since the moment they approved the absolute majority of the People's Party, and now they're asking for consensus because they see the ears to the wolf. It's a law that doesn't count on anybody's support, nor does it count on parliamentary support. In the Parliament of the Spanish State, with a majority of Parliamentarians, it had just approved the derogation from this law, the LOMCE. I don't know what practical repercussions in everyday life will have this political decision of a parliament, which, however much government it has in place, for some things it does and is in function and for others it doesn't. I said in the previous plenary session, Counsellor, in reply to an AGE Member's appeal, that what this Member brings is a pure ideological debate. I give you the reason, Counselor, but I would add a word to it: an ideological and educational debate. And why is this ideological debate where you're right? Because the end of this law is to set up a competitive, classical and segregational education system, as it promotes current neoliberalism, a system that will exclude the most disadvantaged sectors of education and set up a curriculum structure for the service of neoliberalism. In addition, it's an ideological debate because it's a standard that aims to classify centers in order to set up an elite network of excellence, endowed with more means and resources. And why is it an ideological debate? Because it revitalizes the educational system and rejects the study and knowledge of everything that conforms to us as a Greek people. In addition, speaking of the educational aspect, it performs tests and evaluation criteria established by the Ministry of Education of the Government of Spain. Centralist, unfair, competitive, antisocial: ideological debate, Counsellor. So I have to give him the reason. But many people, many Welsh people, with a lot of ideology – I hope you have ideology too – we defend a public education system, an educational system that guarantees equal opportunities and that reflects, from that beginning, the differences and peculiarities of each centre, of each student and of every autonomy. It's also an educational debate about aberration that requires students to submit to unnecessary pressure from standardized tests, disregarding continuous evaluation and the opinion of the teaching team. It is also limited to evaluating only the linguistic, mathematical and scientific-technical field, demeaning the artistic and musical field. A law and revalids that can prevent the student from titulating and making progress – as envisaged in the law – that does not diagnose, like the previous diagnostic assessment tests, no, but its purpose is to classify...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u129	... – Finished, president – students and students, as well as centers. This motion will, of course, count on the support of the Joint Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u130	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mr Docasar has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u131	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We have already had three consecutive plenary sessions talking about this important and controversial issue, three consecutive plenary sessions; the first time the Socialist Group proposal, the second time the BNG proposal and today the AGE proposal. And so, Mr. Vázquez, you have already announced that you will, of course, be told with the api of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; by conviction, yes, but also by pure political coherence. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that the Socialist Group continues to reject LOMCE, and we do so because we think we have gathered a broad sense of the educational community in this country, although we also know that until now we have faced a real rock that was the People's Party. Listening to Mr. Farinas today gives the impression that some small corner around there is albiscized some small change, probably in the face of the loss of the absolute majority that has happened in recent times and that it will be difficult to achieve. A few weeks ago this deputy spoke to them publicly appeared in a specific press round to ask Núñez Feijóo and Román Rodríguez for the last time to paralyze the LOMCE deployment schedule, which was still pending to implement, and today I ask again, taking advantage of this parliamentary debate. He compared it weeks ago to ask Núñez Feijóo and Román Rodríguez to paralyze the third and sixth primary upheavals, as he was demanding massively the entire educational community of this country, but they didn't listen to us and the consequences are in sight of the Greek society. And we're asking that because we thought that these revalids were no use at all, because while they do that you're at the same time lowering educational investment to levels never seen. You took education investment at 5% of GDP and are committed in writing to the European Commission to 3.7% in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group and the Member who speaks to them are responsible and predictable, and that is why we must once again clarify to the Greek society what we want to do and in the order we want to do so. And I'm going to do it very spatially, Mr. Farinas, because it gives the feeling that every time we explain it or don't understand us or don't want to understand us; so I'm going to go very spatially. What do we want from the socialists? One, paralysing LOMCE; two, developing a new law of education consistent with the whole educational community and with real capacity to last over time; and three, done the previous, at that time, yes, to derogate LOMCE. I think it's clear, I hope it's clear, and I hope it will be clear especially to the ladies of the People's Group that they stop messing with and manipulating public opinion by putting in our mouth the things we didn't say or want to do. We are respectful of the law, Mr Farínas, we do not like LOMCE – it is obvious – and we want to change it, but we want to do so by following the regulatory steps that the law itself foresees. It is true that the Socialist Party was very critical during the process of drafting and implementing the law, both here in Galicia and throughout Spain. We understood at the time – and we continue to understand it today – that this country had lost on sectarian and clearly supportive grounds a new opportunity to provide stability for the country's educational system; a stability that has been greatly demanding the whole educational community but, unfortunately, unsuccessful. The Socialist Group always said that both the German Government and the State Government were in a hurry to implement LOMCE because they knew it was a law that would last what Mr. Rajoy's Government had been doing in Moncloa. And we also said that, at that time, the socialists would address the development of an educational law with broad consensus – social and political – and with real capacity to last over time. We said that at that time we would gradually begin our way of reaching an educational investment of 7% of GDP in eight years – yes, that investment that you want to lead to 3.7% in 2019 – that we would start gradually recovering the amounts of money lost in recent years, that is 400 million euros, and that we would also start gradually re-establishing the working and professional conditions of the teacher and the amounts devoted to scholarships. I have always supported and I also support today that in education there is no magic, that in education there is a need for stability, more resources are needed, but above all there is a need for care and respect for the teacher. And this morning, of course, the counsellor also did a good exercise there with regard to the teacher and the whole educational community; I think that's a good way, that way is good. LOMCE undoubtedly had a direct attack; so we see it, we see it as a direct attack on public education in this country. The sooner we change these kinds of situations, the better. If you come to that education pact, which I think is necessary – if that is so – we would be delighted. Now there will be general elections. If in Madrid there is willingness and capacity to agree – that will mean that we all have to give in to things, that we all have to leave something in the way – if that is possible and not what they have done until now, a law that they have done alone without anyone... that is a mistake; it was clearly a mistake, Counselor, so you have to see it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u132	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u133	So, Mr Vázquez, you will again count on our support, as we also count on your support for this initiative. And I wish the new Government that comes out of the elections next June 26 is able to finally give this country a stable educational system; that's what the whole educational community demands. And it would just be the most important thing or what we could do as politicians...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u134	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u135	...give that opportunity to the system itself. I hope so, and I wish that those wishes would be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u136	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. Parliamentary group responsible for the motion, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u137	Well, first of all, I would like to thank the implicit and explicit support of all groups and to anticipate that I will accept the amendment of the Nationalist Block Galego because it seems to me that it completes this initiative in the field of State competence. And with regard to the People's Party, I want to remind you of a question that I think is important, fundamental, essential, to take into account, when you want to talk about consensus. I want to remind the People's Party that you have passed a law in the absolute solitude that there may be in a democratic state. The law was not supported, not even so assumed, by the Patronal of Private Centres, nor by the concerted centres, not only in the field of public education. She was refused by all the teachers' unions. And I remind the spokesperson of the People's Group that there are red, yellow and blue unions; they also rejected this law. They also didn't assume it by student unions and no political group representing the Congress supported it. The day of the vote against the Plural Left, the PSOE, ICU, UPyD, PNV, Amaiur, Republican Left, the BNG, Canadian Coalition, Compromis, Geroa Bai; and abstained – take it into account – Forum Asturias and UPN. So you realize the volume, which means that you ask this country for consensus on education, when they went against everyone and everyone to impose a law – this is yes – of a fundamentally ideological nature, not as you say to the rest of the groups, because they contravene the most elementary pedagogical principles or, of course, they go over them. Therefore, it is very difficult that, starting from LOMCE, gentlemen of the People's Party, one can find, if one can achieve, any consensus; it will always be overcoming this rule. But, I say more, starting from the imposition of a norm to find an agreement is absolutely contradictory and impossible to sustain. You're alone, but society, in fact, is already working on an alternative to LOMCE. You read the documents from Seville, the documents that the people of the Green Sea are drawing up, in contact with all the collectives. There is already a future, there is already an alternative to LOMCE which will be the educational future of our country. You have to decide whether you're with most of the society or whether you're going to follow yourself, parapet behind a law. So far they are alone that in the parliamentary debate of LOMCE Mr Wert has been alone without the company of any of the ministers, to then be absolutely banished from our country to the OECD, at least from the educational point of view. They therefore assume that responsibility of a country, that democratic responsibility of providing something for change and for the future of education which, of course, is coming. We did not assume his amendment; yes, of course – as I said – that of the BNG. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u138	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. We moved on to the next motion. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo García García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of forest fire prevention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u139	No amendments were tabled to this motion. Mr. García García has the floor for his defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u140	Thank you, President. We're in substance in today's day, so, the motion behind the interrogation that we did the other day to the advisor. I say the root in the figurative sense, not because the advisor told us nothing that deserved a motion or any kind of initiative, but, ultimately, it is again – and we have seen it all these years – to fix the Socialist Party's position on a problem of the structural problems of this country, such as forest fires. And we said the other day, that it was a structural problem, from our point of view, for two fundamental reasons: both because of the incidence that it has, that it transcends the years and transcends the periods – i.e. Galicia has a problem of forest fires let's look at how we look, look at the figures as we analyze them and compare them as we compare them – and also, above all – that was what the other day the advisor didn't understand – and so we dedicated her to the amount of public resources we've seen all this time dedicating to this problem. And we also said that we thought it was structural because of the reasons or the causes that, from our point of view, were structural, that they were: the abandonment of activity, the absence of a policy of management of that territory, an erratic forest policy, a total absence of prevention policy and an increasingly less operational, less effective extinction device -- yes, much more expensive year after year. And that, therefore, in the face of these structural causes, from our point of view, the way to act was also with structural measures. If the problem is structural, we can't address it from a point of view as a set of years but in a structural way. In that sense, we put forward a motion with a series of measures that go to the bottom of the problem, from our point of view, which are already at the root of that problem, and which are raised – I repeat – on that initiative. Which are the main ones? Well, in that progressive change in policies – and so we put it year after year in budgets themselves, when budgets are approved through amendments – to go progressively – and not traumaticly, but gradually – investing more in prevention even if it is to the detriment of removing it from extinction. We have reached a balance where in some way those money that we are now investing in prevention would be saving us from the end of the years the power to lower the global departure, which is what it is about and what we consume the great resources, such as extinction. Therefore, to prioritize the prevention of extinction, and a multi-year plan, calendarly, budgeted, agreed with all agents in some way so that the problem of forest fires would emerge from political discussion and was a pact of this Parliament and a pact of all society to address it in this structural way. From our point of view – no disrespect from others – it is difficult to pick up on one initiative all the things that we have said both the Socialist Group and other opposition groups on this subject, with three or four premises: first, that change – as I said before – must be gradual and progressive, not traumatic – that is, it is not about reversing the problem nor are we going to be able in one year, but it is true that we have been lost and therefore once and for all it should be time to start – in which farmers, livestock, mountain communities, forest owners, finally people living in the territory. I mean, I think the latest data already speak of 15% of the population of this country that manages almost 85% of the territory of this country. Man, it's obvious that we have to count with whom we first have to count – because if not what we would do, it would be to increase even more those resources that we have to allocate – it's with the people who are there. And, therefore, by generating activity and valuing its activity, we would also be contributing to preventing fires. We also speak clearly – which was also something that the advisor is not clear – that, of course, prevention policy is far from a policy of annual disbursements. I mean, without arguing if we have to clear our tracks or our roads, say that's the fire prevention policy of this country -- well, that's what we're considering for clarification purposes -- that's far from what we're doing. And we also speak and collect on our own initiative a specific prevention plan for areas with special protection or which have some kind of protection. Year after year, unfortunately, we watch the burning and the burning of forest fires in areas that are in theory enjoying protection that we then see that it's not really that way. Beyond that series of requirements that they do have to meet those who live in a protected area, the inhabitants who live in an area that has a type of protection, well, because in many other things we see that they have little benefit and that, for example, in this case there is no prevention plan or a specific extinction plan. Because having to protect all areas, I think anyone should understand that an area that has a special ecological value – an area that therefore has a special protection – should also have a special protection as regards forest fires. I think it's pretty much a drawer that we have to lose or if we have to burn down some area that should be the areas that we have to preserve the most. He also speaks, as far as the termination service is concerned, of an extinction service where his rights are collected, where his professional category is collected, and which, in some ways, is a more professional and efficient service. The last point is about the communities of neighboring mountains. If the big problem in this country is the dispersion, the fragmentation of the territory, where we have a clustered volume of land, we should start to work, where we don't have so much problem with the fragmentation of the territory. That's where we should start the pole in value. And he also talks about the measures, as is the failure of the sulphur, which over these seven years I think there are only seven or eight recognised throughout Galicia. In short, it's about changing policies structurally, as I said before, progressively, and I said it the other day, not because the Socialist Party says so, not because the opposition groups say so, we should analyze it. The Popular Group should consider this simply with the results achieved. I mean, it's not about saying it to the opposition or saying it to us. If the People's Party is pleased with the results achieved, if the adviser and the People's Group are delighted with these results, the fact is that it is very little worth putting forward this kind of debate. And when I talk about results obtained, I'm involved in the global calculation. It is not so much – or if it is, but it is not for me the definitive – of the data of the fires that we have a particular year or another specific year or of the burnt areas or of the burnt areas or of the fire zones or of the villages of special incidence; it is not, it is, as we have already expressed here many times, whether we can continue to spend that huge amount of public resources to have no management, and that ultimately these data will depend largely on the climate we have in the summer and not so much as what we have done, forecast or work during the winter. So, when I talk about whether the People's Party is considering some kind of change, I mean, I mean, for the People's Party, it's good the thing that it is and, therefore, depending on the year, we'll have more or less impact and, depending on the year, we'll have more or less fires, the surface will be bigger or smaller, but we'll keep spending these 100 million – or around 100 million euros – annual on fires, which, from our point of view, is something unsustainable? And I want to finish, finally, with what I think was a political smallness on the part of the counselor the other day, interpreting, misreading, twisting my words, saying that, somehow, we criticized that there was no prevention, blaming the staff, both the protection service and the Seaga workers and all the agents. Well, this is a common part of the People's Party. When we criticize the health management model, they say we don't respect doctors, when we criticize education policy, they tell us that we don't respect teachers. But in this particular case it turns out, in addition to petty, paradoxical, and rosy the absurd; i.e., the Government which has reduced to the limit the contracts of the Galician Union, of its public service, which does not cover the vacancies that exist, which refuses to comply with the collective agreement itself – Mr. Farinha, to comply with the laws, which he has said several times here...; the People's Party is in breach of the law in this case repeatedly, and, moreover, in the Commission, it is said that this is not so important – that it refuses to comply with that agreement where Seaga workers should be protected, which is denied – as we have already discussed here – to recognize something as basic as the professional category, that is to say, to the forest firefighters in this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u141	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u142	...we can call them forest firemen... i.e., the advisor says or in his reply he tries to blame this group for moving that guilt, not preventing the workers, and that's, as they say in my village, for the birds to get away with their guns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u143	Thank you, Mr. García. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u144	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. It is not the first or the second time that we have been dealing with in this House the wrong policy that is being applied in relation to both the prevention and fight against forest fires and the very policy of exploitation of the Galician mountain. The fires – I have said more than once – are not a divine plague, the fires are the result of political decisions on this issue; decisions that have led to the repeated denunciation in this House of the situation of the work conditions of the forest fire prevention and fighting personnel; service that today continues to have fully fragmented and increasingly privatized and less professionalized devices, with the absence of a single command, which is detrimental to its effectiveness. The allegations about the lack of material and human resources in the fight against fires were the tonic in the multiple forest fires that devastated Galicia during 2015. In August the IGC denounced the lack of the PPE needed to deal with fires that could occur in the air bases of land cargo planes participating in extinction work in Beariz - Ourense -, Doade - Sober- and Reboiras - Lugo - and described as particularly serious the poor state of the motorcycles, which in some cases exceed the twenty years of use, in addition to not having high pressure mechanisms. The precarious conditions of forest brigades endanger their lives, with excessive days, obsolete machinery, heat strikes, lack of PPE... and we could follow. Galicia must recognize the forest firefighter category by professionalizing the extinction service and basing its policy on forest fire prevention. The People's Party's refusal to recognize this category is not understood, which is already recognized by other People's Party governments in their autonomous communities. But Gallica wants to continue impoverishing and precarious those workers who put out the fires of our mountains, those workers and workers who play their lives to save the lives of other people, to save the natural environment, to save our mountain. For this purpose, Seaga was created for prevention; a public company created by the Galician Union in 2006 for the realization, with its own means of the Galician administration and its service, of all kinds of performances, works, jobs and services in forest materials, especially related to the prevention and fight against forest fires in particular and, in general, for urgent interventions related to forest fires. Although Seaga is a public company and there are no functional differences between brigades hired directly by the Council and Seaga's dependents, differences in labour rights are maintained, which condemn Seaga's staff to an improper working precariousness of a public administration of the 21st century. It's a political indecency to keep workers and workers working for a public enterprise without applying the collective agreement and applying to them the minimum rights set out in the Staff Regulations. You should be ashamed to vote again and again in this House that the collective agreement does not apply to Seaga workers, when it is a commitment you have to Seaga's own workers. As a matter of urgency, then, the trade union organisations present in the Public Employees' Bureau for the implementation of the V Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union to Seaga Workers should be convened as it is established, and the duration of their contracts should be extended to nine months to carry out the termination tasks during the high-risk period of forest fires and prevention work for the remainder of the time of the contract. So, you should also be ashamed to send the brigades to the mountain, to all the brigades, without the necessary PPEs, without the necessary material and technical means to, on the one hand, end first with the fire, and on the other hand, protect the life of those who fight against it and also the life of people who live near where the fire is produced. We cannot fight the fire if there is no prevention working on the mountain in the low-risk months, if there are not enough devices, if there is no single command or coordination, if the material is obsolete, if the staff supports exhausting days, if there is no stable staff to guarantee the professionalism of the brigades, the proper use of PPEs, the knowledge of the fire, of its behaviour, of how to protect alien life during action and extinction, and if we do not value the forest heritage and biodiversity. We're going to support this initiative, although we're very afraid that the German Mountain is not a bet of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u146	Good afternoon. For us fires are not the cause of problems, they are the symptoms of serious underlying problems. When someone has a fever, they take antithermics to lower it, but they also have to know what causes that temperature rise. It doesn't make sense year after year to continue spending more and more millions of public budgets on not curing root disease. And fires are not the main problem in rural life, but they are a problem derived from the model implanted in rural life. We've had the same Pladiga for twenty-six years, and we've spent more and more money. I have here the data: in 2013, the budget for fires was 85 million euros; in 2015, 108; and this year, rising. One in three euros from the Rural Council spends on fighting fires, when there are budgets that are very needful of productive investments. The former advisor himself before being relieved in his post said that one of the objectives was to reduce the expense in extinction and increase the amount of prevention. We haven't seen him yet. What happens is that there is not a productive forest model and wealth generator for this country, because attacking the structural problems that cause the fires is not only good for fighting the fires, but it's good for the country. Having a forest model that creates jobs and wealth is not only good for fighting fires, but also good for the country. Having an orderly and territorial model is good for the country, good for the fires, and having useful agrarian surface and, therefore, continuing with that mosaic landscape that is so useful for the fight against the fires is also good for the country. We need to act on the depopulation, on the useful agricultural area, on agricultural activity, on the sustainability of agricultural activity and, finally, in the fight against extinction, fulfilling the principles of the 1992 Galician Forest Plan, progressively reducing spending on extinction and spending on prevention; for once, fulfilling some plan, some ditame, and the best thing for that is having a public and professional device. It has never been justified, nor will it be justified today, because the privatization of the fight against fire is more effective than a public and professional device. And there's no such explanation because what's behind this is actually the private business of the People's Party's friendly companies. The Santiago Education Court 3 is already investigating helicopter contracts for many million euros in the years 2012, 2013 and 2014; finger-adjusted contracts for companies related to the People's Party. In Natutechnia, for example – and it's not causality – Mr. Carlos del Alamo was a director, right?, which is also at the board of directors of ence. That gentleman moves very well, and it's not causality. The Board of Auditors has denounced irregularities amounting to EUR 62 million in contracts for finger-adjusted or irregularly-adjusted. That's one of the keys that they're dismantling and reducing funds to fire fighting public services, and all that money is giving them to private companies. It's the only reason. There's no other explanation. It's going to a complex device that has no rational explanation. And, of course, the action that this government should take from this moment on, which we have reached the scandalous figure that 34% of the budget of this board would suit the extinction of fires, is once and for all to have a medium and long-term model for rural first and for forest second. It's not just about the fires, it's about that, in addition, it would be to get a much more productive model for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u147	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u148	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to announce that the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this initiative of the Socialist Group. We must regret that we are about to complete the second ruling legislation of the People's Party and we have not yet managed to achieve that if this House is to debate in depth, a serious debate with a minimum of rigour in relation to the problem of forest fires in our country. I don't want to amend any of the previous interventions that have taken place since this rostrum. I agree deeply with Mr Sánchez's intervention, too, that forest fires are nothing more than a symptom, among many other things, of the progressive abandonment of our rural environment and the absence or lack of a productive model that replaces a production model that has been disappearing and that the only step taken was actually to abandon. That is why we regret that the Government of the Union and the People's Party never only promotes itself but never wants to give a debate in depth, because the fires, in addition to the structural causes in our country, have multiple immediate causes; there are multiple circumstances and various circumstances in the different parts of our territory that are behind the forest fires. That's why it's incomprehensible that the People's Party never wanted to talk about serious prevention, beyond maintaining preventive infrastructures, beyond keeping fires, maintaining clues, maintaining paths, doing anything else preventative in the surroundings of the rural nuclei and the clues, etc., but prevention in the deep sense of the word, which they never want to talk about changing a forest model that we already know about, after more than fifty years in this country of implementation of a certain highly productive forest model but with only one orientation, which is low-quality wood production, and I insist, we're not talking about species, but rather about a forest model. That is why we understand the dismantling of the Seaga public enterprise because, in fact, it was continuing to put in place a different forest model, and that is why we understand that the prevention and resources which, for example, from the EAFRD has assigned our country's community to carry out prevention policies are used at least in prevention. For example, we see how 22 million euros of EAFRD funds have been lost in prevention, we see as privatizing all forest works – this last signed 70% – for the one already known by the Middle Rural Councillory Naturgalia, or even in the case of the public company Seaga have workers at home while outsourcing orders from Galicia's board theoretically for prevention work. That's why we also understand that you were disembossed from the Forest Management Units, which were an instrument that in just six months has achieved a lot more results than your famous sulphur in almost six years – which are still a very similar mystery to that of the Most Holy Trinity for me – so we also understand that you dismantled the forest fire research brigades, which were also an instrument to determine in each case where the causes of forest fires are and to address them; or, for example, even now, there aren't even officials registered exclusively to any forest information brigade and, in some cases, like in Ourense, there is an official who is downsizing his service. That's the entire forest research brigade that exists in that region. That's why we understand why you persist every year in making a cut and grab, a copy and grab the forest fire defense plan, which is also manipulated. It is manipulated because the data from the forest fire defence plan do not correspond to reality at all. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you ever really want to talk about forest fires from two perspectives, from the perspective of the forest model that is behind and which causes, or which at least makes it easier, the situation that we have in our country as regards forest fires, a productive model with a given orientation, and also if one day you want to talk about device so that instead of each year we increase the resources that we intend to extinguish the fire without that it generates any kind of wealth either for the rural environment or for the people who live in the rural environment, if one day – I insist – they want to speak seriously about that matter, they will have the Nationalist Galego Block as interlocutor; while you continue with your plan, you are still spitting up, but keep in mind that sometimes the wind is reversed and what happens. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In the People's Party and in the majority group of this House, the People's Group, we are convinced that there is no real interest in the opposition groups for maintaining a serious and rigorous debate on the operation of fires, because, if there is such real interest, you would have taken advantage – I don't know if you realize – because there is not so much time – of this group's proposal, by the People's Group, specifically on 20/10/2015, to develop among all – and I say everyone on one side and those on the other – a dictate with new measures to improve the fight against fires. And what you did, both of you and others, was to vote against the 7th Commission. If you had real interest, today you would be using convincing arguments, not those that use every day when they go up to Parliament's rostrum, and not taking up argumentary – which is always the same – partyist, with accusations that are not supported either in reality of the facts or making a minimal objective analysis. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not necessary here to go to the year 2006, although, of course, that date serves at least to set an example – the date of the year 2006 – a great example... –Do you also control fires, sir...? – and to conclude that if there is a failed model in the fight against forest fires, this is the model of the Bipartite. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] It's not what the People's Party says. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] On the contrary, the results of recent years are a real trend change and have allowed us to have hopeful data for the future in the fight against this scourge. In recent years the number of fires has clearly fallen. And, therefore, if the number of forest fires is decreasing, it is as a result of the effectiveness of policies applied by the Government of Galicia, by the current Government, not by the other. The 2006 ones we've met. And you have no right to ask us to return to the past; we don't want to go back to the past, you know why? For it would be to sail against the current; from bow, as it is called in marine terms; it would be to sail from bow, and we want to sail, at most, from stern or from love, but not from bow, because the bow put them to you in the benches of opposition. You wanted to sail by bow, so the results of the year 2006 we've already known them. At the very least, we want to sail in love and, if possible, that is much more comfortable, sail in stern. That's what we want to do. That's why this parliamentary group will continue to defend and bet on maintaining a device with its own and external personnel, with common leadership and objectives, on maintaining a device that will enable us to fight the fire effectively. Ladies and gentlemen, data does not invent the People's Party. More than 60% of the fires are reduced to cones, 6 out of every 10 fires are history before they exceed one hectare, and Galicia relies on the most powerful forest fire prevention and fight device in all of Spain. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] They're all coordinated under a single command of the Galician Union. And it's totally public, not privatised, as you speak, composed of self-employed members of the Autonomous Community, composed of State personnel, composed of personnel, of course, of the municipalities and hired personnel of the public companies of Seaga or Tragsa. Ladies and gentlemen, let party prejudices not blind you, and do not ask us to renounce a model that works to return to the model, in this case, of the Bipartite, which has shown to be a failure. I also ask you to be strict, in this case, to the spokesman of the Socialist Party, because you ensure that no fire prevention is done in Galicia. Home! at least, I think you're a little confused. If there was no such prevention, it would be impossible to achieve the current results. Look, ten years ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u151	Finish it, go finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u152	... –We finished, Mr. President – we were between 10,000 and 12,000 fires a year. Do you know how long we're at now? In 4,000. Ten years ago we were between 10,000 and 12,000, now we're at 4,000. That's the data, which the People's Party doesn't invent or invent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u153	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u154	...who's talking to them, it's data they're there and you can consult. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u155	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Motion author group, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u156	Thank you, President. I refer to the intervention to show that, indeed, it is not the opposition groups who have no interest in having a serious and rigorous debate on this subject. Mr. Balsairo, I repeat: in this country no fire prevention is done. I don't say it, all the collectives say it, the professionals themselves say it, the Protection and Defence Service against the Firearms of Galician Union, they tell it all the unions and they say it absolutely everyone; only you say it's done, and they call it prevention to the free movement of coupons and public spaces, swimming pools, party camps and so on. I'm talking about another kind of prevention. So the only thing we want to introduce – and I'm sorry to try again, even if it's the last year – is if we're really going to the debate; i.e. if we can keep spending these 100 million euros every year and successively raining, not raining, come a good winter, come a bad winter, come a hot summer, don't come hot or rain like last year all summer... anyway, we have to spend those 100 million euros to have the country as we have. And I believe that the country, whoever goes out there -- it doesn't need to use a lot of statistics -- we see the management there; we see the prevention that was last year in the Qualedro, where three thousand and a half hectares were burned continuously, where there were twenty years that nothing was done at all in that mountain. We see examples every year of protected areas that burn; we see what happened in the forests of the Eume; we see what happened in Mount Pindo; we see what happens repeatedly every cycle of four or five years and therefore there is nothing to discuss. If you don't share the analysis that something we have to change to change and reverse that situation, there's little to talk about, actually. You can't have a debate because you say that what you're doing is what needs to be done and that we have to keep paying 100 million euros a year and depending on whether it rains or not rains. Look, Mr. Balsairo, I hope not, I hope not. You'll never see me taking pictures of myself in a fire, with neither hose nor nautical, as Mr. Feijóo did. I won't. I've never done it; no, I've never done it in the fires. [[Interruptions.]] But anyway, as I told you before, we don't spit up because the cycles in the fires are usually five years old, they're going to do and I hope it rains a lot; because we had a winter like what we have to have, or like we had, and maybe we have a dry summer and so we don't spit up. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And then what's not worth is sharing responsibilities. You're the only one responsible for the mountain situation being like it is. You, in addition, reaffirm yourself that this is what needs to be done; and you are delighted to have done this all these years. So what we're not asked for later is responsibility; we're not asked to co-responsibility of a problem. I believe that during these four years, at least, they have repeatedly put themselves on the table – and in something certain that we were right – measures that would go in another direction. I think there have been contributions from all groups. I think you might have used, even selfishly, to get us into trouble too. They didn't do it; it's more, they refuse and they don't allow any kind of scrape to be able to reach any agreement on absolutely nothing on the subject of fires...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u157	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u158	So, and I hope I'm wrong – and if so, I won't take the picture with the hose – but I hope I'm wrong. Otherwise, the only ones responsible will be you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u159	Thank you, Mr. García. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Peace Franco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the deficiencies detected in the current model of emergencies, prevention, extinction of fires and rescue of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u160	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u161	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. We're going to continue talking about emergencies; we're going to continue talking about fires, although this time of fires in the urban media, not forest fires. Just as it happens with the forest fire prevention and defense device, Galicia's emergency device also suffers from similar diseases: fractionation, privatization, lack of coordination, lack of single command... therefore flagrant failure to comply with Galician Emergency Act, which clearly indicated that there was a need for a homogeneous model in the whole territory, where, regardless of where the citizens lived today, they had similar services and similar benefits. These deficiencies are manifested on numerous occasions in incidents sometimes of great magnitude, with a lot of media transcendence, but also, in many cases, in other incidents with much less media impact, because of their impact. So, we could put on the first side of English, Brenntag or the last side of Fandicosta and we could put on those who end up having less social relevance – but in many cases also the severity of their consequences is very high – fires in private homes or even traffic accidents in which they have to be excarcated and injured. The motion presented today by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group has two distinct parts. One could be that the point 1 or 2 of the motion, through which we intend to achieve something that we should have achieved in the oral inquiry of the Vice President of the Board of Galicia, but which, however we try, was absolutely impossible, which is knowing what happened in the Fandicosta fire; because it rains on wet, because the issues that are denounced in relation to the operation of CAE 112 and the mobilization of means to deal with emergencies in relation to the Fandicosta fire already sound to us in relation to previous situations. And, in that respect, we consider it essential to do an investigation into how the facts were happening sequentially and how they were mobilizing the means of which they had at that time the emergency set in our country. We therefore request, through point 1, that, within 15 days, the full and non-restricted version of all transcripts recorded on that day in connection with that fire be brought to this Parliament by CAE 112. I'm going to tell the People's Group that we have no problem trying to reach agreement on its amendment and that, for example, we agree to add that transcripts regarding Vigo firefighter calls are also explicitly made. But we want to know the transcription of all the calls that happened. As I also announce to him that we accept as an addendum that the Pontevedra Fire Consortium is also requested all the mobilizations it has made, all the means it has arranged, etc., in connection with this fire. But, given that, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, who coordinates the device and who says who goes, who mobilizes and who doesn't for a fire and for an emergency, it's 112, I suppose, if we really want to know what happened, we won't comply with the report from the Pontevedra Consortium – however much you are very upset about not ruling in the Pontevedra Deputy – and that we will have to ask for the report from CAE 112. And also, at the second point, we ask that, depending on this study, and also on the considerations made by the workers – who say that the protocols established have been strictly met – because something we will have to do in relation to those protocols and that, therefore, there will be some kind of commission or working group where the workers are also – who are the ones who have to go there and then put out the fires – to see what changes there are and what remodelings have to be introduced. Look, ladies and gentlemen, if you will excuse me, I will read you a couple of details regarding the chronology of what happened in Fandicosta, so that if you really think of yourself as necessary or not that this research and the revision of the protocols is involved. We have a sinister in Moaña. We have a park, which is the Comarcal Park of Morrazo, which is 16 minutes from where the disaster occurred. We have a municipal park, which is Vigo's park, which is eight or nine minutes from where the fire occurred. We have the Pontevedra Municipal Park in sixteen minutes; and then we have the Porriño Consortium Park in twenty-one minutes and Ribadumia Park in thirty-seven minutes. At 5:47 p.m. they call from 112 to Morrazo to get them mobilized. At 17.50, three minutes later, in the face of despair, a private one calls Vigo firefighters to please mobilize. These call 112, who tells them they're not going. At 18.05, they call again from Fandicosta to Vigo that, please come; they call again to 112, which is not necessary, that they have already warned. At Morrazo – I insist – sixteen minutes, The Porriño twenty-one minutes and Ribadumia thirty-seven minutes. At six and a.m., they call again, but 112 goes on to say it's still necessary. At six and twenty, thirty and two minutes later, three firemen with three trucks from Morrazo Park. Turns out, as the hydrants of the factory were electric and they didn't work, these trucks can't take water from the sea, so nothing could do to firemen. At six o'clock, the deputy officer of Vigo called the officer who, after permission from the concierge, decided to leave on his own. At 6:30 a.m., a Vigo fire truck leaves, and on their way, they call him 112 to tell him to come back because he doesn't need it. Despite everything, they go and act in the fire. At the same time, from Pontevedra, when they learn of the situation, the gravity of the situation, and the lack of means to address it, also at 19.15, the firefighters of Pontevedra call 112 to provide personnel and media and 112 to reject them. Well, to all of this, Ribadumia's guys arrived an hour and peaked afterwards because they had a percance on the highway and, in the meantime, they kept unmobilising either Vigo or Pontevedra. Finally, at nine o'clock at night, they ask from 112 o'clock to Vigo and Pontevedra to mobilize assets and mobilize media. Of course, for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, here is a clear responsibility on the part of CAE 112. I'm not talking about the workers – because here, right away, the People's Party is hiding behind the workers – but about the operation of CAE 112, the protocols of CAE 112, how they are ordered in the territory the various means; for example, do you seem to receive that firefighters have a pneumatic boat that they don't have anywhere to put, because in the Thamega river they don't fit, or that firefighters have a truck for action in buildings of more than twelve heights when I think the tallest building in Verin should have six or seven heights, and that, for example, in other places where they might need that kind of media, they don't exist? It is therefore essential to carry out a thorough review of the emergency system. Finally, points 3, 4 and 5 are intended to comply with the Emergency Act, on the one hand, in several respects. One, in the homogenization of the service, which is essential that there is an adequate service for emergency cases everywhere on the territory; the reorganization of the territorial structure. Here we were told on many occasions that isochrons from all over the territory of Galicia were less than twenty minutes; that is, anywhere in our country that an incident took place, in less than twenty minutes there would be the right means to deal with it, which, in fact, if you have found – I insist, in large, but also in common disasters like traffic accidents – that is not met, and that puts people's life and integrity at grave risk. Finally, to avoid such disappointments, such as those reported by Vigo firemen, who came to the fire and, as no one expected them, they were forty minutes unable to do anything, because there was no one in charge there; there was no one to coordinate the fire. And that is the case, ladies and gentlemen, with the drafting of the fireman's and volunteer regulations, which are also provided for in the Galician Emergency Act, so that everyone, when he gets to a disaster, knows which place he occupies, who is in charge, who must obey...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u163	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u164	...and what are the guidelines to comply with. And finally, we also ask – because this is an old demand for workers – that there is a fireman's status which also covers and regulates the working conditions, the training conditions, the conditions of compliance with the prevention of work risks, which must be met in relation to the workers of our country's rescue and emergency services, regardless of who their employer is...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u166	... whether public or private. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. I must begin my intervention by highlighting the professionalism of the workers of 112 Galicia, and of the workers who perform their service at the Provincial Consortio de Bombers de la Deputación de Pontevedra, because here you have doubted your professionalism in the previous intervention. It was all a disaster, nobody did anything, everything was upset, according to the Galician Nationalist Block. And I have to tell you that it's manifestly false, it wasn't. No, you're already renovated in that throne game. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So you understand that I do not accept lessons in that sense of your group, in any case. We've seen that they're very renovated, renovated to the worst. In any case, what was quick was the action of the Galician Board, and proof of that is that the Fandicosta company had EUR 3 million at its disposal through a participatory loan to deal with that situation. That's the reality. [[Murmurs.]] And you also help to supplement the wages of workers affected by ERTE. [[Applause]] Therefore, the Union was quick. You're talking about a disaster that happened a month ago, a major fire at the Fandicosta factory in Moaña. He didn't intervene in the Galician Union and 112, he spoke in 112, the Galician Emergency Agency through 112. The Deputy of Pontevedra also intervened through the Provincial Bombers Consortium, of which you spoke absolutely nothing, and the Vigo Council through its municipal firefighters. So we're facing a complex intervention, in which three administrations have participated. I see that you only direct your gaze to the Council of Galicia, the others completely forget, the others don't want to talk. That's why we tabled this amendment, addressing your requests to the three administrations, why not? And that's why I'm sure your group will accept our amendment. So we are facing a complex emergency, with an intervention in which we say that different administrations participated and that the resolution was relatively satisfactory, as much as you have said. We didn't have to regret any victims in the fire, not even victims poisoned by the toxic cloud that occurred. Emergency management was good, not perfect, not satisfactory, but good, like or disliked. That's the reality. And derived from this action, there was a study that developed the General Emergency Directorate with the Galeg Emergency Agency to try to improve the performances in similar cases. So, I have the feeling that here what you want from the Galician Nationalist Block is to convert a successful emergency into a catastrophe, which you've been looking for seven years to throw on the board of Galicia. He did well. Can it get better? Yes, but it's done well, no matter how much you say everything you've said in your intervention. And what we don't think we're receiving is that to solve the detected eaves, that there were, that can improve the performance, what we're trying to do here is to address ourselves only to the Galician Union, obviously other administrations participated here. You didn't speak at all of the provincial consortia, at all, in no case, nor did you speak of the Vigo firefighters' intervention. So what I have to tell you is that this model is also your model, because the model of the provincial consortia – as you know – is committed to the deputies now governed by the Socialist Party and the Nationalist Block Galego, and that this emergency map is also agreed by the Fegamp, where it is also – at least so far – the Nationalist Block Galego. So, did they buy the protocols? Yes, totally, the mobilisation protocols in the event of industrial fires were met, the protocols of 112 Galicia. The procedure required the participation of the Morrazo firefighters, because it was the ones that corresponded to the territory; it was also activated by the firefighters of the Porriño, and it was put in advance by the firefighters of the Salnes, by these three parks. So at that moment they were all participating. About Vigo firefighters, about what you were talking about. Look, Vigo firemen expressed their will to intervene, believed they had the order to enable them to intervene, and they immediately went out there. In no case, as you have stated here, if you ordered them since 112 not to intervene, nor of course to turn around, in no way. What you said is false. That didn't happen in any case, among other things, because it can't, because 112 has no organic or functional origin on them, as well as no command, since the service belongs to the Vigo Town Hall. The Vigo Town Hall firemen have official coverage, which is strictly the city hall, without prejudice that in the face of an emergency with lives in danger you may be asked from CAE 112 to participate, which was not the case. So, if from now on the Vigo Town Hall has planned to begin to cover the services in other municipalities that say so, because, of course, since the Galician Union, protocols and procedures will be modified to be able to count on the Vigo Town Hall and Vigo firemen. But in any case, it's on the table with our proposal, our substitution amendment, with which we want exactly what you propose, which is to urge all parties involved to participate and review the procedures. You know we're waiting for Members to stand on that model exchange offer, which is what you were defending when you were in opposition. Now that I'm a government in provincial deputies and they have the possibility of changing the model to a direct management model...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u170	...the time has passed, you've been here for a year, and there's still been no response from these provincial deputies in which the Galician Nationalist Block governs or co-governs, and they can modify the model. It's not good to come here anymore to criticize the current model with the possibilities of changing it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u171	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u172	Now that you rule in the deputies, you have the option of responding to that initiative that you defended when they were opposition. Our amendment says exactly the same thing as the text you present, simply addressed to all those affected, also to the provincial deputies concerned.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u173	Thank you, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u174	So, if you want an agreement, the popular party's tendon hand. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u175	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u176	I'll put the cure first. So I'm already in solidarity with the workers and workers of the firefighting services, who are suffering from tremendous precariousness due to the incompetence of the People's Party Government. You're truly incompetent to be able to organize a firefighting service, an emergency service that really responds to the needs of society. It's true, three administrations, because you have three administrations and private companies. Yours is to divide, to get rid of public services and all responsibility, because the last thing you want is to rule, you just want to manage what is governed in Madrid. So they refuse to rule this country over and over again systematically, and they also use and insult public workers to justify their incompetence and inoperability. You say that the Board has acted, that it has given Fandicosta 3 million euros. But I wanted to say that Fandicosta didn't need the 3 million euros, that the fire was extinguished in time, and don't let the ship burn and then we're going to vote in on it. But aside from the concrete fire, the Galician Public Firefighters Platform believes that there must be a debate about the dual fire extinguishing system that exists in Galicia: public parks in the cities and private management in the districts. The fire – as BNG’s voicer said – started at 17.53, and level 1 of the emergency plan so that the municipal parks didn’t operate until 20.45. Despite the virulence of the fire, which forced the traffic to be closed on the Rande Bridge, and the warning of the risk of explosion of two deposits of 10,000 litres of ammonia, the collaboration, both of Vigo Park and of Pontevedra, which offered its services to 112, was rejected. They were refused, unless Mr. Tellado calls the workers and fire extinguishers liars. And that the ship would burn, not for lack of firemen, but for something divine. I think PP is mostly divine. The fires come from God's hand and they have nothing to do, so it doesn't matter. Vigo firemen were there at 6:30 p.m., and it's true they couldn't act because there wasn't a command I coordinated, okay? Therefore, public services that are not used. At 22 o'clock the fire continued. And then at 22 hours, since 17.53, they were, in addition to the firefighters of five parks, three trailers – two of Vigo Park and one of Maritime Rescue – and a board ship. The Galician Firefighting Platform has described the management of the Galician Emergency Agency as disastrous and believes it has caused greater damage than had to be caused. "Failure of coordination" and "severe procedural deficiencies" say there was. They're denouncing the same deficiencies that have already been manifest in the Angrois accident, in the fire on the Brión ice-cream ship, in the fire at the Ferry Square in Pontevedra and now Fandicosta. You're carrying four major fires in this legislation, and in none of the four of you have done anything, they haven't changed anything, we're still exactly the same. Firefighters report that media mobilization was inappropriate, dilating response times in claiming to exclude the extinction services of Vigo and Pontevedra. And there was no definite command, every service was organizing its tasks as it could, to its free will. The extinction of fires should be a direct management service, which precedes the security of persons and goods to business economic interest. Not only are the district fire stations privatized, but 112 itself has been subcontracted to an advertising company in Telefónica, Telemac. Vice President Alfonso Rueda said in the press that 112 acts properly and that coordination was perfect. So, I hope you will make it clear to me that if the emergency services acted properly and the coordination of 112 worked, the help of the firefighters of Vigo and Pontevedra was refused. Why didn't you notice that the more firefighters there were, the faster the fire would go out? It just doesn't matter, if they were there, if I can have firemen to put out before the fire, why do I refuse them, when obviously they were prepared to do so? And I also wanted you to tell me if you took into consideration the risk of explosion of ammonia deposits. I hope that this motion will be adopted unanimously and that the People's Party will really reconsider what its policy is in the case of fires. For about three years from Angrois and fourteen from the Prestige accident, Galicia remains equally unprotected from these accidents in 2001. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u178	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. The truth is, you don't have to lose listening to Mr. Tellado, because you practice incendiary language very well, come here and do it. But the truth that comes to us from the professionals, the public firefighters of Galicia, with their stories, that we have to believe they are true, will eventually erase all the lies that that this burning language has just poured out from here. The truth is that everything happens because we have a management and ownership of privatized parks. And we want, and the whole sector, to reverse this privatization, because it has brought the negative and disastrous consequences to the quality of the service and to the Greek citizenship we are suffering. It's more expensive, precarious staff work, and there's an absolute opacity on those platforms behind it. The Public Bombers Platform of Galicia has issued a report to CAE 112 Galicia which is very eloquent, and not only with what happened in Fandicosta, but they analyze up to fifteen situations in which serious coordination waves have occurred, and therefore with negative consequences, because there is indeed that people have lost their home, and that is serious, because of the inoperence and ineffectiveness and the privatisation strategy of the Board of Galicia. We wondered how it was possible, reading all the stories and listening to the professionals in the sector, how Vigo firefighters were not mobilized, who were the closest and best prepared in human and material resources to deal with what is an industrial fire. Also – and I'm going to focus on this – has come to us the story of the Pontevedra Fire Park. Reading this is depressing and even a spook that you turned the whole emergency system into Galicia. They claim they've never received a call from 112, being 14 minutes from the leftover, or a call from 112, or to inform, or to require. And only an hour and ten minutes later, the security concierge and the chief officer show their surprise why they hadn't received the call. And then they call them at seven and a quarter, at 19.15, and they receive as a reply that they don't go that they're not necessary, that they give them an answer. Well, at 19.40 they get a first call to send them water, and they send them 10,000 liters of water in a nodrix. At 21.35 – imagine how much time has passed – they receive the first call asking for all possible means. But curiously ten minutes later 112 calls them to go to the N-550 to put out the fire in a truck; they go to N-550, go through it all until they get to the Arcade, but they don't find any truck, false alarm, what happened there? Well, it's been a long time. And, of course, they arrive at Fandicosta at 22.34, and when they get there, the image they attend is Dantesque and of the devastation of the ships, burned. They stayed there until one in the morning, and returned on May 10 to the one in the morning. And there was no coordination, it was absolute chaos, no one knew where to operate, who it was and who it was and who it was. So, Mr. Tellado, don't laugh because this situation is quite serious, and you came here to say – I do it directly –: "very good management", "a success" and "acted well." If, in your conscience, you act well, it's just to let you rub a whole building, all the work prospects and pay 3 million; well, for you to be. But for us that is not doing right, on the contrary, it is acting disastrously wrong, because it puts us in danger, because nothing happened but it could happen. And predicting is fundamental, and to prevent you need to have a public emergency system, totally public and well-coordinated. And from that, logically, that we don't understand as if in Law 5/2007, of Galician emergencies, it was at the first point to homogenize in three years – i.e. in 2010 it should be homogenized – the benefits, the conditions of prevention services, the extinction of fires and the rescue of Galicia; because we don't understand how it has been done. Nor since it was not done what was there of territorial reorganization and of the operating structure that was shown that it had to be done in six months, but we understand perfectly what the way of ruling the People's Party is. And, of course, in the rest, in the regulation of professional firefighter and voluntary and in the fireman's Statute, we support the initiative of the Nationalist Block Galego. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is, I had a ready intervention, but I'm deeply worried. I would ask your lordships, all of them, to abstain for a moment from the condition of Members we have and to think as citizens. Citizens we are now making the statement of income and we are surrendering to the administrations, to the state, resources to protect us. It is our model, the state of well-being consists of that, we all – each within its own capabilities – to create instruments of protection. And it's normal for an opposition group to ask the government for information, it's normal because we don't have it. What is surprising to me – which also said the spokesperson of the People's Party – is that they, like a group of oppositions, asked for information from all administrations. And the question is serious because the main responsibility for Galician emergencies, which has legal, political, ethical obligations and which it charges, is called Alfonso Rueda – which is not, by the way –. And it turns out we're talking about this accident that occurred between 9 and 10 a.m. last month -- that's, like, a month out of date -- and what does the spokesperson tell us about the People's Group? Tell us: They asked for a detailed report to the Pontevedra Bombers Consortium. That's the first point. But do you want to tell me that Mr. Wheel in the face of an emergency situation like this...? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Listen, do you really think it's assumed that the emergency manager today hasn't requested a report yet to try to correct what worked wrong because we're playing life and stability at it? In this case of a company, but it may be the lives of people, because the ammonia tanks that I think there was in that company, because God knows what would happen. God knows those who believe, those who don't believe, we can't even resort to that, what do we resort to? But then you ask at point two – I will not position myself, Mrs. Peace, because I know this is your business, but you have called me much attention – the transcription of the call crossing between 112 and Vigo firemen. By the way, that's what my fellow Abel Losada asked me for, article 9, after the debate with Mr. Rueda, who said: there they are, but here they are not yet; they were asked but no one found out here. And you too, the People's Group, are you aware of what you're asking for? That our Government doesn't have that information yet. And if you have it, why ask for it, man? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u181	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u182	What's wrong? No, no, but whoever asks for it is an opposition group. How does someone who defends and supports the government's action come here to do some kind of theater in something as serious as emergencies? Home! Mr. Tellado, don't play with the words. [[Murmurs.]] Look, his amendment is recognition – and I put it literally, and it is totally contradictory to what Mr. Rueda said here in the interpellation – that – and he gave literally – "the protocols, the catalogue of means and resources are adjusted, favoring the criteria of proximity, the availability of force and the adequacy of the means." I mean, everything that's been reported here, what the professionals have reported, the proximity of the different fire parks in isochronas much closer to the incident than the one that told 112, and you come here asking for it. Mrs Peace, if we are working logically in this Parliament, this is just the certification that the debate you had or that my colleague Abel Losada had with Mr. Vice-President of the Board, responsible for the emergencies of Galicia, the reason was on this side. But the reason and the political logic, especially with a group that thinks you're right because you have most Members, because they have little to do with it. We're going to approve it so much if you accept the amendment where all the errors are recognized and all the eves that happened in that fact as if you didn't accept it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u184	Thank you, Mr. President. Welcome, Mr. Rueda, to this debate, which I think is your responsibility. And Mrs. Soneira is right that the amendment of the People's Party is the explicit recognition that something doesn't work in the Galaga Emergency Agency as much as Mr. Tellado has endeavoured in his intervention to try to derive the responsibilities of what happened in Fandicosta, to the whole world. It seems here that the only ones that have nothing to do with the operation of the Agega are the Board of Galicia; it's more, you explicitly said it in your intervention. But the important thing is the facts, and the important thing is what's written, so let's try to move forward a little bit. In any case, as far as the amendment is concerned, I have already said earlier that our will was to try to reach a transaction with the amendment of the Popular Group. But allow me before I make the concrete proposal to say two things. And it's funny, the People's Party is very picturesque as to the principles. I will not quote that of Marx – not the Social Democrats, the other – because he is very soft, but of course his doctrine is quite changing. As for the consortia, I remember once I brought to this Parliament an initiative to ask for explanations to the Lugo Consortium for oppositions annulled by a court in Monforte, and the Government said to me: "Oh, no, this Parliament can't tell the consortia anything because I'm something different from the Government." And now you surprise us with a covert change of doctrine and they come here directly requesting a detailed report from the Pontevedra Consortium, and we put a deadline for it. We accept this as an addendum, no problem; because we are actually not like you, who just want to put your finger on those institutions or entities where you don't rule. We don't care who governs, here everyone gives explanations and accounts for their performance. But another change in the doctrine of the People's Party. Here local autonomy is sacrosanct as much as the Constitution; we can ask the municipalities to ask them to listen to us, but we can't impose anything on them. And you get here with point four, which says to urge the provincial deputies to tell us already what your model is. Boy, everybody, don't we ask Ourense's or ourense's, what's his model? If you're going to continue with the privatization model and be able to be used as Mr. Baltar's placement office. Well, look, in conclusion, Mr. Tellado, pay attention, I'm going to make the deal for you: We accept point one and two as adding to our point first, because we ask you for information from the entire CAE 112; we also agree to ask the Pontevedra Bombers Consortium, and of course, since you have so much effort with Vigo, we also agree explicitly to put that, in addition to all the transcripts, we also want Vigo transcripts. Your point three accepts even as a substitute for our second point two, because, indeed, the important thing is to take into account what the workers say about how the protocols work and to review them. That of urging Members. Look, you know – and Mr. Wheel much better – that the deputies are working on it. And we don't have any problems in urging Members to define them, as well as Ourense's, and to say the reasons why Mr. Baltar prefers to continue to keep the subject privatized and put two managers when there's one everywhere. And as for point five, we don't have any problems replacing even our points four and five. Although, by the way, point four is independent of the management model, because point four is already provided for in the Emergency Act. And, Mr. Rueda, you said the other day here that the BNG had not brought in since May last year no initiative will see that in the amendment it states that a non-law proposal was approved on BNG's initiative in September 2015. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u185	Thank you. They're trading on the talk. One minute or two.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u186	Yeah, looks like they made a deal. If they tell us the deal, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u187	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u188	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u189	Then we'll hand it over in writing to the services, because it's a little overwhelming. Point 1 and 2 of the Popular Group amendment is accepted as added after point 1 of the motion; point 2 of the motion is replaced by point 3 of the Popular Group; points 4 and 5 of the Popular Group are accepted as added, and the rest of the motion remains the same. I'll give it to them in writing. And Mr Tellado calls for a point vote: on the one hand, point 1 and 2 with the additions and, on the other hand, the rest of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Is this clear? So we move on to the motions vote. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u191	In the first, of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, the rapporteur has already stated that he accepted the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and did not accept that of the People's Parliamentary Group. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Ramón Vázquez Díaz, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the application in Galicia of the primary education revals provided for in LOMCE, its normative development and its implementation schedule. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u192	We now vote on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Pablo García García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of forest fire prevention. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u193	In the next vote on the motion of the Galician Nationalist Block, what I understood is that we now vote separately on the points – together, but separately – 1 and 2, and the rest of the points are split later. Yes, she has explained it, but in principle it's the points... it will get us the deal, the transaction, and point 1 with the transactions they have incorporated, with the additions, and point 2 with which they have also traded. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The 2 is a replacement for our 3th, the 3rd of the Popular Parliamentary Group. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's just that it's a little bit of galimatias. [[Laughter]] Let us see, let us vote on point 1, where there has been a transaction with the People's Parliamentary Group. Let's vote point 1. Text voting in accordance with point 1 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Paz Franco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the deficiencies detected in the current model of emergencies, prevention, extinction of fires and rescue of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. This point was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u194	We now vote point 2, where there is a replacement for point 3. Let's vote for that. Vote for the transactioned text of point 2 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Paz Franco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the deficiencies detected in the current model of emergencies, prevention, extinction of fires and rescue of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. This point was therefore adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u195	Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the motion. Yes, so we then vote points 4 and 5 of the People's People's Negotiated Group, which goes as if adding to the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Vote for the texts dealt with in points 4 and 5 of the G.P. Motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Paz Franco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the deficiencies detected in the current model of emergencies, prevention, extinction of fires and rescue of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72; votes against, 1. The voting is positive. These points of the motion are therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u196	And now we're voting on the rest of the motion. Vote for the rest of the G.P. Motion points. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Paz Franco, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the deficiencies detected in the current model of emergencies, prevention, extinction of fires and rescue of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. These points are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u197	They'll bring us this deal, which is an agreement of some complexity. Modifying and Modifying the Agenda
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u198	As announced to the spokesmen, there is a change in the agenda, and we now raise two questions to the Government. We started with Mrs. Montserrat Prado Colors. Ms. Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, about the situation in which patients who are on the waiting list for surgical intervention or diagnostic tests do not agree to be derived from private centers for their realization
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u199	Mrs. Montserrat Prado Colors, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u200	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. The People's Party is pursuing a policy of cutting and demolition public health of Biblical dimensions. And it's doing it through multiple resources: through deterioration, the basis of having abandoned infrastructure, through lack of human and material resources, and thus having the excuse of privatizing services, and through constant mechanisms to deter the use of public health: The first is the infamous waiting lists. The delays that make those people who have resources because they can come to private health, and those who don't because they wait for months and years to be cared for. The second of the mechanisms is the derivation of private health. Instead of optimizing the resources of public centers, they remain in many cases under minimum or directly closed. The People's Party in the Government of the Union, in its department, year after year, summer after summer, closes an indecent number of beds in the Greek hospital. In 2010 it was 588; in 2011, 670; in 2012 it was 787; in 2013, 1,105; in 2014, 1,200; in 2015 more than a thousand, and this year 2016 will resume an indecent bed closure in hospital centers, it is estimated that it can be around 1,200. I say it's calculated because far from that discourse for transparency, that discourse that the People's Party has nothing to hide, and everything does with light and tachygraphs, it turns out that there are no communications, there's nothing in writing, there are verbal communications exclusively; with which, from the sum of what you're telling the different agencies, we can conclude that it's 1,100, 1,200, well, sort of. The closure of beds has very serious consequences in the care. This decision means greater difficulty in accessing these health benefits by the population, paralysing surgical activity or increasing waiting lists – in the last quarter of 2015 they had increased 25%, data recognized by yourself –, saturation of emergency services, a very important impact on pressure on professionals, a consequence of tremendous employment, increased unemployment. And we understand through the media that the Council in this context will put in place a plan to reduce waiting lists with 5 million euros to reduce waiting lists to 34,000 patients. The question is, how?, with a massive closing of beds?, a service lock?, a chisel of surgeons?, not a staff hire? We wonder how this reduction of waiting lists will conjugate in this context. What we're afraid of is that what's going to mean is that it's going to deepen the privatization of public health and it's going to mean a lot more patients' drift to private health, and that a very important part of these 5 million euros go directly to the private health archives, Counsellor. That is why we asked you if you think the Government of Greece is defending public health by these measures, closing a thousand beds, privatizing services and massively deriving patients from private health rather than treating them in public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. The truth is that we always start, Mrs Prado, a little intervention seems to be copied from afternoon to afternoon. And to say right now, just when the Government of Galicia was of the few who met the deficit and precisely the President announced a package of measures that we are going to use to improve services in general, but especially the health care workers – which I am responsible for – because I think this is not the right time. Saying that privatization, loss of infrastructure, etc., is exactly the period in which you should use this type of argument. We are finishing health centers, we are expanding hospitals, and we are going to dedicate – as I say – the money that the deficit allows this strike to Galician Union because 24 million euros to improve the quality of health services. That's why I think it's something you have right there in that speech and it doesn't lead to anything. He told us last March, during the interpellation he was talking about the derivation of private centers to perform diagnostic tests or surgical interventions. He knows it's not a new fact. This, during the Government of what you participated in, the two-party government, was much larger than derivation, and I showed you the graph I had at that time and the big increase is precisely in that period of the two-party. We have significantly reduced these drifts. The General Health Act of 14/1986, in Article 90.1, states that "Health public administrations may establish concerts for the provision of health services other than health services within their respective competences. For this purpose, the various public administrations will take into account, in advance, the optimal use of their own health resources", and the Galician Health Act itself, adopted in this Parliament at times – as stated earlier – of the Bipartite, recognizes the importance of the private sector and of health care as "a complementary and subsidiary of the public health system of the Autonomous Community". Of course, less important at this time than in the period that you ruled. And, of course, we have a model of care planning of the activity to be developed in concerted centres that originate within the integrated management structures, establishing an assistance coordination from the public system that guarantees health outcomes. Your Honor, in the management of our waiting list of diagnostic or surgical tests, in addition to meeting our patients with quality and safety, we also have a goal, which is to comply with the Health Insurance Act. And, as you know, your article 5 sets some waiting times around 60 days for surgical operations and 45 for consultations and diagnostic tests. Faced with the impossibility of intervening within the maximum response period at the reference hospital, the patient is offered to go to another center, and that he logically has the absolute certainty that in that centre the care is accredited by the Health Council and applying the same criteria as that required to a public center. But to tell you that the rights of antiquity in case you refuse to be intervened in a concerted centre are kept exactly as if you hadn't rejected it. It is not deleted as you say in the interpellation. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u203	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u204	You haven't explained how you're going to multiply bread and fish, Counselor. It turns out that in seven years of the People's Party's management since he returned to the Government of the Union we have 12% less budget, elimination of more than 2,000 jobs, closure of around 80 beds that have disappeared from public health, while private health already has 25% of beds. In this context they close a thousand beds again, they didn't tell me how many. I mean, it would be good if you stopped playing hiding the data and posting how many beds, where, in which services, who will be affected and when they will be opened afterwards, if they will open up, but no, you don't answer any of this and you intend to convince us that with fewer resources, with fewer beds, with less personnel, the waiting lists will be lowered by 34,000 people. I'm asking you how you're going to do it. Will you do it in public health without those resources or will you do it in private health? Is it going to lead patients to private health? How are you going to do it? What time is it? Are you going to go to the pawnshops? Explain and, instead of being hiding data and saying that the bed resource and the debate about closing beds is meaningless, have the courage to explain how, where, how many closures, how much personal, who will affect, in which hospitals, how many plants are closed, how many surgeons, how many services. And yet you go out in your advertising and propaganda policy that in that context you're going to reduce the waiting list by 34,000 people with 5 million euros. And now it turns out that what you haven't done in seven years will be achieved before the election. It's supposed to be advertising all the health centers and all the infrastructures they didn't do. I would like to thank you for once – I insist – for having the courage to answer at parliamentary headquarters how they will do what they announce in the press, in a context of continued elimination of resources. That's the question: will patients be drawn to the threshold to justify that promise that they're saying to remove 34,000 people from the waiting lists, how will they do it? It's a simple question: how are they going to do it? So simple.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u205	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Replica round, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u206	The question wasn't like that, but if you want to change it and do it like that, no problem, I'll answer the same thing. Look, I think you know that health has evolved a lot. A few years ago, operating a chair could take fourteen days of income: three days before intervention, intervention, recovery and almost rehabilitation within the hospital. That's five days today. If this kind of technique is done, we open hospitals for the day, we do major outpatient surgery, it turns out that what you're talking about is very important in hotels, but in hospitals it's not so important anymore. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So how do we do it? The plan is very clear. We're going to derive part of the concerted centres... anyway, much less – as I say – than in the Bipartite governments, much less. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And the other part is going to be done both in the hospitals at daytime, let's say tomorrow, and another in the afternoon, self-concertation, they call it "peonadas," self-concertation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] As I say, health practice has evolved a lot, thank God. And we think we're just trying to adjust to what patients are asking not only professionals. Patients prefer outpatient activity, they prefer to be less days in the hospital and, of course, this has been doing for years not only here, not only in Galicia, all over Spain. So I think we're talking about something that's already something like clippings, privatization and closing beds. Beds are present in hospitals and what we want is to plan the summer activity, which we obviously know, we planned with data from previous years, where the incidence of infectious diseases, which is what leads to high occupation in the winter months, does not happen in summer. And there's also logically staff vacations, which have every logic right to vacation, and therefore activity in all summers will always decrease. Beds? The beds are here. No Galician patients have any problems, they won't have any problems either in summer or winter, precisely, to be able to get in if they need it. But if we can certainly do outpatient treatment, we'll always choose outpatient treatment. Why? Because the patient asks, the patient tells us that he prefers to be treated with techniques, that he doesn't need to be outside his home. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I think it's a necessity, it's a proper request. And logically he also spoke of those patients who do not agree to be derived from concerted centers. There's no problem, old age is going to stay at all times and they're going to operate in Sergas' own centers, which we have the ability to do. And – as I say – what remains at the end is that the deficit was met by Galicia, with Canarias the only Autonomy that has fulfilled it, and uses a very important part precisely to improve...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u207	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u208	...to make more health centers, to expand the hospitals of the network and, logically, also to decrease the waiting lists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u209	Thank you, Counselor. Question from Mónica Fernández Rodríguez, G.P. Joint action on prevention and control measures to be taken in Galicia in relation to excess weight of persons
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u210	Question by Mrs. Monica Fernández Rodríguez, anytime.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u211	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. Obesity and overweight are two constantly growing diseases, four out of ten people are overweight and two are obese on our land. Galicia is at the head of the Spanish state at overweight rates, representing 43.5% of the population between 25 and 64 years old, and occupies the second position at the ranking of more obese people, with a rate of 24.9. Overweight today is the third risk factor for all causes of death and disability, after tobacco and high blood pressure, for the development of other chronic diseases. Obesity and overweight suggest a worsening of the quality of life of the sick person and, on the other hand, an increase in the care burden and an expense for the health care system. They are directly related to increased type 2 diabetes, increased cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood and high blood pressure, which in turn are major risk factors for cardiovascular disease, the greatest cause of death in the state as a whole. From that time the Spanish Society of Cardiology had given the alarm voice. It's not just an exclusive problem of Galicia, it's reached epidemic proportions worldwide, and every year at least 2.8 million people die of obesity or overweight. But apart from all this, obesity is a socio-economic illness, increasingly linked to the cultural and economic levels of the population. Although it was previously considered a problem confined to high-income countries, obesity is now also present in low- and middle-income countries. It was thought that with the crisis the families would return to traditional meals, but we see that they go to cheaper calories, while the foods that have increased their price are the healthier ones. The increase in consumption of foods very rich in calories without a proportional increase in physical activity results in an increase in weight. The decrease in physical activity also results in an energy imbalance leading to weight gain. As far as causes are concerned, we must first of all talk about environmental factors; the main ones are sedentaryism and dietary changes. In Galicia, it is estimated that between 14% and 15% of children under 15 are obese and 26% are overweight. That is, more than 35% of the children and children in Greece are overweight, with the highest prevalence of childhood obesity across Europe, with much faster growth than that of the United States in the last 20 years. And this is the source of the high obesity rate in adults. In our land more than 50% of people over the age of 18 have overweight or obesity. On the contrary, the inhabitants – to compare – of Balearics, together with Catalonia and Basque Country, are the most fit. To explain this situation we should take into account, and it is shown, that there is a abandonment of traditional diets, atlantics and Mediterranean, which goes together to a change in lifestyles, with fewer movements on foot and less physical work. For this reason, she asks what control and prevention measures are currently taking the Galician Union for greater monitoring of risk groups and for the implementation of strategies for the entire population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u212	Thank you very much, Mrs Fernández. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Fernández, we share your concern. Both the prevention of childhood obesity, through the Germola plan, and the approach of obesity in adults are priorities from a public health point of view. Obesity is at the same time a pathology and a risk factor in the face of other chronic diseases, sharing with them some common and modifiable causes. The main risk factor of obesity in adults is obesity in childhood and adolescence, with comorbidities and the health expense it means: type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, some kind of cancer. Though not common, some of these pathologies are beginning to manifest themselves in childhood. The main initiative we are taking is the one referred to in the Germola Plan for the Prevention of Child Obesity, because we understand that it is precisely in childhood when it is most important to intervene. The plan includes thirty-two different interventions, channelled through thirteen lines of action that are marked as strategic and necessary to achieve the ten specific targets. Among other things, the development of three action protocols is seen as necessary, one for each of the three priority areas of intervention: the school environment, the health environment and the family and community environment. It is also important to highlight the initiative "People with Life", the official theme site of the Health Council on healthy lifestyles. It focuses on digital platforms and social networks, which are essential today. He received in 2012 the sixth NAOS Strategy prize in promoting healthy food in the family and community context. As evidence of its impact it is remarkable that the leading community on Facebook in Spain results from other initiatives on healthy lifestyles promoted by state public administrations and autonomous communities, and has more than twenty-three thousand followers. I want to mention also the DAFIS Platform, data on the assessment of healthy physical condition, a tool developed in the wake of the Healthy Galician Plan, promoted by the Galician Board and coordinated by the General Secretariat for Sport, to facilitate professionals in the field of physical activity and sport to assess the physical condition of their students, sportsmen and citizens in general, who participate in initiatives linked to the practice of physical activity and sport. As to the final aspect of your question, about surveillance in risk groups and the application of strategies for the entire population, I have to tell you that we understand that it is more convenient to evaluate the overall risk of the patient as a whole and not as a function of a single factor, although this is as important as obesity. The Galician Health Service has carried out a risk stratification process that allows individual identification of the level of health and complexity of each of the nearly 2.5 million Greeks over 14 years old, establishing four strata depending on the level of complexity. Thus, all Sergas health professionals, especially primary care professionals, can put in place specific actions aimed at meeting the needs of each citizen...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u214	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u215	... depending on your degree of need.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u216	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u217	I have to tell you that the plan Germola knew if I knew it, which I really lack is best results. I think they're two quite recent platforms, but it's still quite clear that it has to be a collaboration between a number of advisors, apart from that of Health, because I think it's a matter for all of us, where the Government has to pay special attention and the media. Yes, it's very important to recognize that the diet system that we're following today has changed over the last few decades, and it should above all be faked in the food industry, especially because of abandonment as I said before the Mediterranean diet and the Atlantic diet. Yes, it's important to promote sport, and it's clear that we have to start working with families, especially I have to fake children and children and youth, because it's a problem that exists in those ages that will get worse later. So it's very important that no specific measures are taken, it has to be a cross-cutting issue. If you pay special attention to nutrition, I can't understand a certain type of food that is offered in the dining rooms or that can be offered to children who are free to access junk food, for example, from vending machines. So I understand that individual responsibility can only be fully exercised when people have access to a healthy way of life and receive support to choose healthy options. The World Health Organization mobilizes all stakeholders who have a crucial role in creating healthy contours and accessibility to healthier dietary options. Socio-economic development and agricultural policies for urban transport and planning, environment, education, processing, distribution and marketing influence the dietary habits and preferences of children and children, as well as their physical activity. These influences are growing more and more this weight gain than I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Replica, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u219	Mrs. Fernández, you're right about everything. The truth is, it has been properly documented. I, however, do not agree that it is a matter of coordination between councils, I think it is a social issue. And besides, it's not just a social issue at the German or Spanish level, even I'd talk about the Western world, even – as it says – we're talking about more energy-intensive diets that are easier for all kinds of families. That's a serious problem. As I say in that, logically it's not a job where we can find results quickly, it's a long-distance theme. Of course, excess weight is a public health problem in Galicia, especially worrying in childhood and adolescence. They said in data that the prevalence of obesity in the Welsh population is between 6 and 15 years old, which is a virtually new data, 8.2%, 9.2 in men and 7.3 in women. And the overweight polyvalence – as it says, something less important, but it does give an important impact index – is around 24%. As I pointed out in my first intervention, the main starting strategy of this line is the plan for Germola, the plan that was designed to act on different levels, actively looking for coordination with other programs, recognizing possible synergies and assessing the barriers to its implementation. Given the multifactorial etiology of obesity, because it's a topic you haven't commented on, but it's also there, which is the genetic theme – which is also important – in the emergence of obesity, you can count on different strategies to perform each of the thirty-two interventions that include: training, legislation, active participation, monitoring and cross-sectorality. And it would be exhaustive to detail each of the interventions in detail in this response for the time it would involve, but they are available – as I say – on the website of the Galician Health Service. As for the adult population, according to the "Study of eating habits of the Greek adult population", it is observed that only 21.2% of the population is in normal weight, which is an important and worrying issue. The prevalence of overweight in adult population is estimated to be around 41%, being more prevalent in man, and increases as age progresses for both sexes. In adults, the prevention and promotion of health, in addition to those carried out directly with patients by our professionals, especially primary care, is mainly based on the so-called "People with Life" initiative – which I commented on earlier on the web – on the training activities of the Galician School of Health for Citizens and in the immediate future through the Health Platform, which is currently a project model for a part of the population and which we are about to take it to the entire population. Soon, the Spanish Society's program for the Study of Obesity will also be launched, prevention of obesity, "Leasing Your Life", led by Dr. Casanueva of the University of Santiago de Compostela. Until December 2018 the program will articulate in different...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u221	...points of geography a set of technical and scientific divergent, pedagogical actions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u222	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u223	...of training or promotion, where sport, business, cultural and social events of great magnitude. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u224	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the fourth point of the agenda, non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Gaga de Left, at the initiative of Da Eva Solla Fernández, on the coverage of Sergas staff vacations, as well as on the beds that will be closed during the months of June, July, August and September
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u225	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u226	To formulate the proposal has the floor to Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u227	Don't go, Counselor, whether you're interested in this or not. After this calm sea we'll raise a little tide. One more year, in this rostrum, we're here claiming the same thing; again we understand that there's no answer, and they don't seem very interested in it from the Council. One more year and the last of this People's Party Government. Seven years raining on wet doubling in the number of closed beds. I wonder if in the last seven years, patients and patients have been reduced to half. And not only are they not reduced, but the waiting lists have not ceased to grow, fruit of the aging of the population, fruit of the chronicity, but, of course, the fruit of the cuts. Let's do a kind of logic: if people are waiting for an increase, if emergencies are already nearly collapsing at any time of the year, regardless of the station, why do the number of closed beds and the number of closed consultations increase? In all lights it's at least illogical. You don't need to know about health management to understand that this management – by calling it somehow – is not at least normal. But by going to the waiting lists, we have lists that we can count on for thousands, even though we don't know the whole of the real lists. Seven years has also been the People's Party, we've already finished the legislation, and seven years are denying precisely to facilitate the whole list, not only the officials, the structural ones. It's a pity the advisor left, because it seems he didn't even know the Health Insurance Act, which said he didn't lose the health insurance when a person refused to go to the center offering the Galician board. And that's exactly what the People's Party's law introduced, and that we fight throughout the presentation, but it seems we haven't read the law properly. And even with the data we have in hand, even with the data that are not real, that facilitates Galician Union itself, that waiting data has multiplied over the last few years, because nearly two hundred and eighty thousand people are waiting for interventions, consultations and tests. Let's go back to a decade's data, lose a decade's back in health care. Thank you, of course, too, for that law which the Counsellor does not know; for that law which the People's Party has drafted and approved alone with all the opposition against, with all the unions against and with all the health platforms against. How did we get here? So we've arrived after a cut of about 300 million euros in health care for the last seven years, after the permanent closure of 400 beds, and after the elimination of about 800 people from professional health squares in Galician public health. We arrived after we hypothesized the health budget with the new public-private Vigo hospital. A decade of delay! I repeat: data similar to a decade ago. And with these lists, after all these cuts, the candidate Mr. President Feijóo had cynicism a few days ago, saying that he would now invest in reducing the waiting lists. That's what you just promoted once again, Mr. Counsellor: now in electoral season, five million, I think, we don't know exactly - to reduce the waiting lists, now, after 300 million euros of cut, for only a few days after announcing that rain millions close again around a thousand beds in public health. Act the truth that is quite hypocritical, cynical and even obscene. You, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, all professionals all over the land, in Vigo, in Ourense, in Coruña, in Lugo, in Salnès. No more rules! One more year we ask this Parliament to ask the Joint Committee for information. Because they say we're not right again, we have to ask again for that data, that we are denied every year, about how many beds each month and every center, and of course what is the criterion of that decision. Because he can't even talk about flu, which is reduced during the summer, and then close Xynecology beds, like last years, or Psychiatry. It doesn't count saying that closed beds can be opened and then, however, don't hire to open those beds or to make diversions as you just announced now, Mr. Counsellor. We want them to tell us exactly, or we ask for another year, what is the number of professionals who enjoy their vacations every month in every EOXI and how many and how many of these are going to be covered by prospective professionals, because they no longer manage to justify the closure by vacations. He just did it again. It's so rude that this argument is certainly embarrassing alla 'alas. They can't use workers' rights to hide, as an excuse, because seven years ago half of the beds were closed, and workers and workers also enjoyed vacations. There's no reason to double that bed close. It seems it's not only the workers' fault now, but the patients' fault, because they want to be hospitalized at home. It must be that only the summer months are so whimsical and whimsical. We call on Members and Members of this House to vote in favour of covering staff vacations made possible and to allow consultations, centres and services not to be closed in such a way, in primary care as well as in specialized care, while waiting lists exist. There are thousands of professionals waiting to be hired and hired. Just a few moments ago, Mr. Counsellor defended that there was capacity in public hospitals to reduce these waiting lists, using self-concertation, which we call "peonadas" those of the health guild. How can it be defended that millions can be invested to reduce these waiting lists in the summer months when the beds are closed at the same time for the rest of the year, or for the rest of the seven years – we could say – if it has been defended that there was no capacity, that there were no anesthetists, that there were no professionals? Now it turns out that in electoral times they're going to have the ability to invest a few million and to derive from the private. I wonder what they do in private centers to cover their vacations. You think about it. A hypocritical speech, the truth, quite cynical. It is also the same thing that allows an accused manager of Vigo to threaten the freedom of speech of workers and workers who manifest themselves and maintain with great honor and dignity a lock on the Master who lasts for a week. You will see, ladies and gentlemen, which side you are on. One more year they have the ability to pronounce themselves; that's right, now in the election campaign. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u228	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u229	Good afternoon again. The Galician Nationalist Block will support this initiative; it's obvious, isn't it? We have just seen once again this practice of the People's Party, of the advisers, of the president of the Union, of Members and Members, of trying to hide in lots of propaganda a real reality that is no longer possible to hide. And what it's not possible to hide is that they're systematically carrying out a structural closure of beds. They do it in the summer, after the summer, and every year there's a percentage that doesn't and then they don't open anymore. And once again they try to justify that closing the beds is, on the one hand, because it's not necessary, because it turns out that there are no more flu peaks, as if closing the beds was exclusively what handles those infectious processes that are winter-like. And they're also trying to tell us that beds are closed, with all that it means, because professionals have to take vacations. Of course, professionals have to take vacations! But are there professionals in the recruitment lists not enough to cover them? Yes, there are, there are enough to cover. What is a political decision to undermine public health to lead patients to private health. And now the councilman has done nothing but ratifying it, because what he answered the BNG question about how they're going to account for this decrease of 34,000 patients on waiting lists as an election promise, what he said was deriving from private and self-concertation, that is, paying overtime, peonadas, in the afternoon. I mean, you can't hire staff to replace those who are on vacation, to have a normal operation, and you can invest in self-concertation. They explain it to me, if possible, explain it to me, of course. What's really here is an ideological choice, and what's here is an attempt once again to derive countless amounts of resources from private health. And all this, of course, is not innocent; it is not innocent all this that is done around the closing of beds, because in the end there is always the private business. In the end, it is always clear the goal of the People's Party's Government at the Galician Summit: to leave public health destroyed in the hands of multinationals, who are ultimately the ones that manage resources. So we have again – I insist and told you before – that in 2009 beds have always been closed, of course, but what the People's Party did was multiply that close of beds, going from four hundred and something in 2009 to 1,200 in the last few years, and to the assumed thousand and peak –1.200 – this year. Why does it keep hiding information from the People's Party? They'll have to explain it to us. Why if there is nothing to hide, do not publish in the Galician Board Transparency Portal the bed closing data, the staff data that is contracted, the data of patients who derive from private health? It turns out that neither the counselor answers, nor does he give us written information, which they have to do, nor anything else, that is, darkness is concealment. So we support this initiative and we present to you an amendment that we believe because it improves it. In any case, we're going to vote equally in favour, even if it's not accepted by the author of the initiative. And the amendment is a new point, in which the Galician Board is urged to operate all the resources that Sergas has: beds, surgery, equipment for carrying out diagnostic tests, and not carry out any derivation of patients to private health while there are available resources, which are likely to be used in public centers. It is an indecency that, having paralysed surgeons, closed beds, whole services, whole plants closed, resonating equipment and paralysed TACs, if they are deriving from all these tests and interventions in private health. It's indecent! So, that's why we present this amendment, in addition to those that already contemplate the initiative, because, of course, there is indeed an alternative to the closing of beds, there is indeed an alternative to this indecent closure of beds and if there is an alternative to this trap to close a thousand and peak and then every year leave without opening two hundred or three hundred beds. There's an alternative to bet on public health. And what is not there is the political will of the People's Party, which its ideological bet is to promote private health. Far from the fact that private health is complementary to public health, the objective is that public health is complementary to private health, that private health is to have business for those who can pay and the public is to be assisted. And they're taking giant steps in this direction, until they actually stop standing at their feet and have to stop doing it. Well, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u230	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u231	Good afternoon again, gentlemen. President, because he was right the other day when the Health Counsellor said in an interview that logically we have to take vacations to the health care staff. In fact, everyone who works needs a vacation period. But this truth which he claims cannot be an argument justifying the closure of 930 hospital beds of public health during the summer months. Staff need vacations, it's true, but traffic accidents -- more numerous in the summer season -- diseases, chronic diseases and unbearable waiting lists don't understand vacations, they continue to occur every month of the year, although emergencies experience a decrease in patients, not as many flu episodes as in other seasons of the year. These arguments by Mr. Counsellor are merely excuses of a bad payer; euphemisms that really mean regardless of resources that could be used for – yes – to cut intolerable waiting lists, to hire replacement personnel and to stop the drift from patients to private health. Because not only do they remove or close hospital squares, they also close units, services and surgeries, as is happening at the Conxo Hospital, with the Pneumology Unit already closed and those of Ophthalmology, Dermatology and O.R. in the process of closing. Thus, the Council may use those fixed staff that worked in these closed units to cover the holidays of health professionals, without having to make new contracts, without having to use the recruitment lists. This is a strategy of clearly economic management, depending on the deficit, and not on the improvement of health and employment of Welsh citizenship, not on the basis of Greek public health. I support the whole motion, and in a special way the last two points: don't close beds or consult and cover staff vacations. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u232	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u233	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Well, the truth is, it can't be that in the circumstances in which our public health system, Feijóo decides to close hundreds of beds in our hospitals and hundreds of coupons in our health centers. So, one more year, the whole opposition is denouncing this situation, one more year all the unions and health professionals are denouncing that situation or that decision, and, more sadly, one more year the entire Greek citizenship will suffer that decision and that situation. Actually, Mrs Solla, we don't know how many beds they're going to close, we don't know how many professionals they're going to hire. What we do know is the very poor argument – because it is politically correct – that Mr Almuña uses to justify this situation. First justification: surgical techniques have advanced so much that now in summer they will operate standing, no longer need a bed, because they operate around the world standing. Or another justification is that the agencies decide that, i.e., balloons out. Second justification, or if you prefer second lie, it's always done that way. No, it didn't always do that. In 2009 they closed around 400 beds and in 2016 they appeared to be closing around 1,200 beds; that is, three times more than they were closed in 2009. By the way, in addition to primary, no coupons have been closed, and even whole health centers, and now yes. Third justification: the decision is based on a history of occupation and activity. Of course, yes, but that history of occupation and activity is precisely defined by the Government using and taking into account the closures that are going to be made year after year. Fourth justification: the fault lies with the staff's vacations. Today we hear him again in this camera. How dare you say something like that when these days the newspapers published that the time lists include 54,100 people, 54,100 people, and that there are more than 9,000 people in nursing alone? With those numbers, it's actually hard to believe that the problem is the lack of staff. Besides, in Sergas vacations, that's indeed historical, they've always been taken, we've always taken them stepways, so as not to prejudice the march of services, especially in services where there may be a shortage of substitutes for being very specialized services. By the way, if the problem, ladies and gentlemen, is that we lack staff, how can you ensure, as you did today, that no patient in Galicia will have any problems during the summer? Let's see, is there any staff? If there are no staff, any patient in Galicia may have some problem at any time, because it's not about mobile beds, it can't open and close a bed. A bed is yes, but it's not the furniture, because when you talk about closing beds, all the infrastructure that brings up a bed, human resources and also material resources is closed. By the way, we also heard Mr. Almuña, not today, but in an interview that he did "all the trap" – I was going to use this term to justify the closure – who would especially care for very sensitive specialties, and quoted Obstetrics, Pediatrics and Palliatives. We'd only have to be able to give birth in the summer! I don't know how dare you say such a thing, Mr. Almuña, because it turns out, ladies, that the ratios of matrons in Galicia is 50 for every 100,000 inhabitants, and the rest of the state is in 80. How dare you say that when in the Chou – at Ourense Hospital – 16 beds of infants, that is, all of them, and they suppress that service in the summer, and when in the Chou they're going to close nothing more and nothing less than 60 beds of Internal Medicine, in the oldest province of Galicia and one of the oldest in Europe? Besides, gentlemen, these closures are generalized, they affect the hospitals on the coast, where the demand for vacations increases, that the hospitals inside, and both the comarcas, and I speak of the boat, in which 14 beds will be closed when historically they have never been closed until Feijóo arrived, as they close in Choac, they close in the CHUS...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u234	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u235	...and close at Vigo's wonderful private hospital. By the way, he could take advantage of the People's Party's MP – and finish – to explain what they're going to do with the people who are locked up in the Mexoneiro. It's very serious. And stop threatening those professionals, it's intolerable.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u237	I'm done. They not only close their beds, they also close their primary care appointments. That is why, Madam, we are going to support your proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u238	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u239	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Before I begin my own intervention, I would like to make four previous considerations: Mrs. Solla, the last year of the People's Party and the rising tide, I suppose the citizens will have to decide. I, of course, think of you as a Democrat. Mrs. Prado, I'm very surprised that you won't get the peonadas now, when they were the champions of the peonadas, of course. And Mrs. Acuña talks about climbing vacations. In fact, as they climb, 68% of the professionals last year took their vacations between July and August. And a fourth consideration: Galician Voice: "Kills a child for lack of a catheter, and dies another child for lack of chemotherapy for a No-Hodgkin lymphoma." That's not Spain, it's not Galicia, that's Venezuela. The Spanish health system is not like some countries that are spoken of differently. And going to the debate today, we discussed a proposal that was registered last July. It doesn't contain any data or figures, and then it goes for any year of the legislation, and it goes even for any other Autonomous Community, because, ladies and gentlemen, in all autonomous communities it takes in the summer months to plan the number of operational beds or enabled during that period. But what's the difference? The difference is that where the People's Party governs they close their beds as in Galicia; however, in Asturias "the resources are optimized", in Andalusia "the beds are stored" when it comes to the same care process. To also point out that in these and other communities not governed by the People's Party, there seems to be much less media noise than professional unions. Nor is there any place where the PP does not govern white tides or other types of collectives that refuse bed closures, staff problems or any other public health water, which seems to exist for some alone in popular governments, even though Andalusia has the highest numbers of bed re-adjustments, the decrease in staff of health professionals in these years or less personal health investments in the whole of the state. In fact, the only Community that today announced its summer reorganisation plans was Galicia, the rest do but don't say so. You speak, as always, of collapses in the E.R. because of the lack of beds available in those summer periods, when you know that they are timely situations resolved right away. You also say, Mrs. Solla, that it's not clear what criterion is followed for closures, that they seem random. And he explained it in a diaphragm way, Mr. Aboal, the Director General of Health Care, the other day in the Ser Chain, I recommend you listen to that interview. Mr. Aboal said that plans are being made to ensure care activities in the winter months, in the same way as they are done for summer, where there is a decrease in the care activity by the smallest number of redundancies in chronic pathologies and the regular staff vacations. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It's done according to previous years' figures and activity data, an estimate of beds to be used, of enabled beds and of which they won't be needed. These plans are made, in any case, without an impact of care and no patient ceases to enter due to errors in that estimate. Every day, the beds that are needed are valued and used to avoid any assistance problems. And we recently had the famous Angrois accident, on July 25, with hundreds of wounded who were perfectly cared for, on July 25, which is summer season. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What is the real situation?, last year 85% of the hospital beds in Galicia were kept operational, and the occupancy rate, of which 85%, was 75%, 1 out of every 4 were unemployed. It is estimated this year that 87% of Galician hospital beds will have to be enabled, while the rest are available for any eventuality if necessary. The specific figures were communicated to social agents by the agencies of each and every EOXI. And one of the reasons for this increase was the increase in the activity that the counselor reported. The really important thing is that no patient in Galicia, neither in the summer nor in the winter, remains without adequate assistance, whether with income or compulsory. In short, beds don't have the importance they've had, the increase in outpatient activity, and the decrease in average stay time makes it lose that importance. The restructuring of hospitalisation units in summer is done in all health systems, the management of public money has to be efficient, and professional vacations and the impossibility of replacing many optional – anesthesiologists and surgeons, essentially – justify the efficiency of that reorganization. Maintenance interventions are also carried out in those hospital units that could not be carried out while they are busy. The average occupation – I repeat – of these last years of the enabled beds was 76.6%, immediately proceeding to activate the disabled beds. Beds are unused, but they don't mean they're not usable, they're absolutely different. And that's why we're not going to support your motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u240	Thank you, Mr. Núñez. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u241	Thank you, President. Well, it's seen that the People's Party is nervous, because I didn't say it wasn't going to rule the People's Party anymore, but it was the last year of this government, and that's a veritable thing that anyone can check. But, sir, you talked about everything but the initiative, you had to go to Venezuela's catheters. I want to tell you that in the Greek health there are no materials, and I myself three and a half years ago – before entering this Parliament – continuously attended the Mexoeiro Hospital's emergencies as companions who brought ambulance professionals, had to ask us please to give them some material because there were no vesical probes at the health centers to probe patients. I worked on pneumology and often we didn't have the materials to make the cures, and could give you a long et cetera also other cases of family members who had to take – specifically relatives of first consanguinity to me – which they didn't have, materials to make the cures and had to buy them. Please, I believe that demagogy, if you will, we use it in the corridor, and you can recommend that you listen to Being, as if this was not a Parliament and the explanations were not to be given in this gallery. Because you after that circle in which you said nothing just justified the vote against an initiative that has four points – you could ask for a point vote – and you asked the first two to ask for information. You say there is no data, yet you refuse to give them, do you realize how you have no kind of argument to defend the cuts and the positioning you make about public health? And it turns out, the truth is, quite absurdly, your speech, you haven't given any evidence that justified it, you haven't given any evidence of the criterion that follows to close your beds. Why can they close, as said here, beds of lactants, obstetric beds, when you, however, argue with the decrease with the flu peaks? They're telling me. Is that a good health planning? Or how can you say that waiting lists can be reduced by 5 million euros by peoning and at the same time saying that there are no anesthetists to open the surgeries? Please hear a little bit of seriousness that we are, first, in Parliament and that you are carrying a Health Council and a Government; however, it seems that they have led to stubbornness, debate, I don't know whether they are being or any other chain or means of communication. The reality is that we have a government that in seven years has not been able to plan the need for service professionals. And that you use the same arguments again that over the last seven years the truth gives the extent to which you, in your management, have not only done nothing to improve public health, but ended up destroying it. It seems to me, in fact, quite incredible that they vote even against one more year – and we've been almost four legislating – to provide data. But you go on like this, because the truth is, they only have a few months left. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u242	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. On the amendment, will you accept the amendment? Thank you. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] Accept it. Thank you. So we move on to the next non-law proposition. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Alejandro Gómez Alonso and two other Members, on the service by the Galician Union of the new access to the port of Burela in 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u243	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u244	To formulate the non-law proposition Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u245	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand the ways of communication and the new road infrastructures not only as an asset but also as a tool for the provision of services that enables us to improve the quality of life of people and citizens, the competitiveness of businesses and also social inclusion. And on this line, I don't think there's only one German who doesn't recognize this government's work and, of course, also the Infrastructure Council, who in times of extreme difficulty and budgetary restraint was able to boost the very important infrastructures that others didn't run in times of grace. Among them, today's occupation, the access to the port of Burela, to which we demand its completion. This new road we can no doubt define it as a strategic infrastructure not only for the Town Hall of Burela or Burela, but also for the entire region of the Navy. It responds precisely to these objectives to optimize communications with industrial space and a fundamental fishing space for the marine region and to reduce the heavy traffic that today circulates without any alternative around the center of Burela, around 148,000 trucks each year. These figures show that we are talking about one of the most important fishing and commercial ports in the Cantabrian and internationally known for the marketing of a product of extreme quality, the beautiful north, that of the green label. Finally, we are talking about better communicating one of the greatest number of operations within ports affiliated with the Autonomous Community of Galicia. It is true that this port, throughout its history, has suffered various expansions in its lines of robbery and that a new range has been built for the treatment and marketing of fishing. The current access to the port area is now carried out through the center of the urban core, with the nuisances and the dangers that this poses for both port users and Burela's own core. Burela has a census of approximately 9,580 inhabitants and has approximately 12,000 residents. As a result of the increase in the activity experienced by this port and the increase in traffic resulting from the operation of the new offshore, it was understood convenient to provide these port facilities with a new access, a new route which directly facilitates the entry and exit to them by avoiding, as far as possible, the passage through the urban core of Burela. The new track has a length of less than 1.3 kilometers and runs between the cliff and the FEVE line; the geometry of the future road is fully conditioned by the zone orography and the presence of the train line, so that the projected track is completely embedded between the cliff and the railway line. Circumstances, by the way, which also explain that despite having a journey not too long if it represented an important technical challenge, if it represents a project of high complexity in its design and also in its execution. In addition, we speak of a work that brings a new challenge, avoiding a high impact on the resulting route – after which it was designed to prevent the removal of sea views – since its layout is virtually dismounted. Furthermore, this work, funded by Junta, has suffered countless setbacks in recent years, since the judicial paralysis of the work by presenting various resources of individuals – which had to be resolved – to the appearance of archaeological footprints that needed a special plan of cataloguing and intervention. That's why the delay of a road whose adjudication file dates from 2006, 22-03-2006, and whose contract was signed in 2007, 11-05-2007. It was even necessary to re-sign it after justice had established non-compliance with the planning of that vigilante at the Burela Town Hall, and it had to overcome even the termination of mutual agreement of the initial contract and start the practically zero project a few years ago – in this case – a few years ago. Today the real unlocking was possible, in fact this road has reached a new impetus with the two governments, in this case, popular: the arrival of the People's Party's Government both at the autonomous level and the arrival of the People's Party at the national level. Especially, ladies and gentlemen, in this second legislation, overcoming administrative obstacles, legal obstacles and also technical barriers, and having the authorization granted in this case by the State Railway Agency for the diversion of the train line. The Infrastructure Council gave priority to an action that took special intensity from 2015 onwards, although the Galician Board has invested nothing more and nothing less than 8 million euros. It is true that no administration is guilty of the judicial blockade against the use of an individual, nor do I want to hold anyone responsible for their technical complexity. But it is also true – and we must recognize this – that in recent years it has gained momentum that allows us to finally speak of its final horizon and put into service. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are calling for this House's support so that together we can set a date for the completion of the works of access to the port of Burela, so that we can establish a mandate among all political forces, a mandate without bias in favour of a strategic infrastructure that favours economic activity, which will without doubt increase the competitiveness of the region of the Navy. Ladies and gentlemen, today this House is the one whose prerogative is the impetus of the Government's action. And you can urge, with a unanimous voice, that the Board will put into service the access to the port of Burela before the end of 2016. And that's what we invite you all to join this goal. I tell everyone who knows Burela; there's someone who's talking right now, who doesn't listen, in his hometown of Vilagarcia, that Burela only knows her on the map. [[Applause]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u246	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Intervention of parliamentary groups. Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u247	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, of course, called attention to this non-law proposal to urge the Board of Galicia to put into service the access to the port of Burela in the current year, 2016. And it doesn't draw my attention to the need for access, because it's a claim from the very birth of this municipality, there are – if I don't need calculations – 21 years. Call attention, or call attention to us, after an invitation to tender for the work on 16 May 2014, European campaign, in which it was specified in that tender and propaganda that he made at that time the councillor would invest 7.6 million euros in the works of access to the Portuguese port of Burela, 1.26 kilometers that would link the Arcadio Pardignas avenue with the port at the height of the area of the shore. Works, of course, would improve access to a port of the largest volume of operations within the port infrastructures assigned to the Autonomous Region of Greece, which would improve access and security at the entrance and exit of the port, avoiding the traffic of more than 400 heavy vehicles/day and 648,000, of which Mr. Balsairo speaks, by the urban core of Burela, which would, of course, be good for the port and good for Burela. They also announced that the execution period was 24 months. We are called attention, of course, that after the work has been announced and multi-announced, after the bid, after the contract has been formalized, we must once again urge the Government of Greece, in the doors of other elections, so that these works must enter service before the end of 2016, and also before the end of the election of Greece. It seems that the German Government is unable to comply with the word given and therefore the People's Group demands the support of this Parliament to do, we understand, by means of propaganda and publicity in these most favourable times: propaganda and advertising. The BNG Parliamentary Group, Mr Balsairo, of course, what it defends for Burela, and for its port, is to improve access, that important tool and that very necessary infrastructure to remove these 400 heavy vehicles every day from circulation, which are currently crossing the urban core. We defend the improvement, of course, of the security of access to the port, the security of access and the security that will be assumed for road traffic within the Burela core. We understand, indeed, that they can increase the competitiveness of the port and even of the Navy. But we also understand that if you fulfill the contract you are signed, that of course you have to come in before you finish this year, so we don't see the need. But taking advantage of this initiative, we, the BNG, agree to improve the purification of waste water that is poured into the port of Burela, taking all the measures necessary to make possible that Burela can count on a new sewage treatment station that goes to the port, with a new technology that can guarantee less pollution, less noise, less maintenance, and that the spills that go to the sea that are, of course, harmless, next to this current debugger, or where it is thought convenient. For that reason, the BNG Parliamentary Group has tabled an amendment to remind the Greek Government that Burela has long claimed the need to be able to have an infrastructure also very necessary to ensure the improvement of quality of life and to defend the restoration of the environment. We must not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the guiding principles of social and economic policy, and we remind you today that we are in June, for a few days ago we celebrated Environment Day, is the right to enjoy an environment suitable for people's development. We must also remember the duty of the public authorities to preserve this environment and the rational use of natural resources with a new EDAR in Burela, which will also be key to promoting economic and social activity, the competitiveness of Burela, its port and the region of the Navy. I hope, Mr. Balsairo, that the Galician Union, which the People's Group may, let us say, accept this amendment which seeks to urge the Union to commit itself to the construction of the EDAR of Burella, EDAR claimed not only by the BNG, but rather that it has claimed the Town Hall that rules now and that it has ruled before. Therefore, I understand that there will be no problem in passing that we support an initiative – which was not necessary to present, because by fulfilling the contract it is made – I hope that they will accept this amendment, and if they accept it, of course, they count on our firm support. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u248	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u249	On 23 March 2015, Mr. Balsairo, the board issued a press release saying: "The new access to the port of Burela, which the Environmental and Infrastructure Council is running, will allow us to optimize communications to reduce heavy traffic in the center of Burela." The works, which were auctioned in May 2014, began last November 2014 and was therefore no longer the first announcement of the Union. And it already counts on Adif's permission to divert the FEVE line. The works to provide the port of Burela with a new access involve an investment of 8 million euros and the forecast for its completion was made at the end of 2016. This was the communiqué of the Board on March 23 of last year, i.e. it had its final date. On the same day – as not! – Galician Radio Television announces that access to the port of Burela is being built, which will end at the end of 2016 and will eliminate 400 daily trucks from the center of the village. So, what you bring here today is not that I'm resuscitated, it's very resuscitated, it's been over a year, because this date is already marked. This year's news comes out again in the press, because you always come here with things that are already agreed, and that already after you announce them again in the press, in the pre-election campaign plan, then it says that in this plenary an initiative of the People's Party will be approved to put an end to the works of access to the port that had already a date of the end – in addition to that it does not change – to put the same as it was already. That's the initiative. And instead of talking about 400 trucks a day, it talks about 146,000 vehicles a year. Question of multiplication. They also recall that since the arrival of the People's Party's Government, at both the autonomous and national levels, especially in this second legislation, priority has been given to the performance that will cost 8 million. I mean, flowers are thrown out, and they repeat the same, still being 8 million, but repeated in 2014, in 2015 and 2016. I don't know if people want to understand that it's 3 times 8 million, just like they do with the trucks that multiply, see if they're wrong, and people understand that every time the People's Party comes out, there's 8 million on the table. Therefore, a resounding initiative, Mr. Balsairo. Once again electoral precipitate of the People's Party in the full. Once again this House used to make electoral propaganda on the exploits of the knight Nuñez Feijóo and his court. 400 vehicles, or 146,000, 8 million that multiply by themselves over and over, a real waste of time and, of course, a behavior that I would say very little democratic and very little clean with the population of Galicia. I don't know if you think there's no more problems in Burela than those that are already solved and have dates. You always bring here Burela problems that are solved or are in the way of solution, and that are already decided on, and you never bring questions and complaints from the neighbors and the neighbors of Burela that bring the opposition and that seem to you there does not exist. I really believe, as Mr. Cosme said, that you don't trust the Government, you don't trust the Government to actually fulfill its promises, and that's why he comes to this House to publicly, and to the House, he undertakes to fulfill what he has promised. I'm sorry to inform you, Mr. Balsairo, that this is no solution, this government is no longer committed to this House, it does not fulfil the amount of commitments it has made in this House. So it won't depend on that if you buy the access. You just keep using this House as a popular party propaganda venue. Sorry, Mr. Balsairo!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u250	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Mr Fajardo Recouso has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u251	Well, good night to all and to all. Our group is going to support the initiative, I think we can only support an initiative that has a phrase that specifically says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to put access to the port of Burela in 2016"; given that the work is about to end, because we are going to say yes. Now, God forbid they end, eh! because as they don't finish, their fear of ending all plenary sessions with Mr. Balsairo's intervention in that sort of liturgy that we're used to in the last few moments, they just need to put the last anthem of the PP in the entrance. I think you'd gain a lot from your intervention with a triumphal entrance with the PP anthem, that's yes, the new version, be careful with the steps dancing up here, and come and you with that cave speech make the references you make. Because of course, you say that someone can't intervene because he doesn't know Burela, well, well, well, in this country, some of us know more than our area. But it is true that AGE Members, who have spent a lot of time in South Korea, North Korea, Cuba or Venezuela, do not have much time to visit Burela and, therefore, we cannot make a ten-minute speech about one of these readings. And it's a kilometre four hundred meters that you came here to sell as if it were the high-speed Atlantic axis, and an infrastructure that had to be finished a long time ago. I insist, a kilometre four hundred meters, that when it was announced, it was worth 4 million euros, and when it's finished, it's worth 8 million euros, that is, double, so here's some responsibility. But I'm going further, it's a shame I have to say today, the day the Fraga bust falls. I'm so sorry. But today I have to take out a note that in Galicia's own voice says this infrastructure was announced 20 years ago; 20 years for a 400-metre-kilometre infrastructure, and you come here to suck, please! It must be a little more serious in this country. Do you think you can put a situation like this up here on the table, pulling it out when it's an infrastructure that had to be finished a long time ago? Only the inability to do so in the right way led us to these delays which, in addition, do not solve all the problems in the port of Burela, for example. We all discussed in the Committee on Fisheries many times that will happen with the dredging of the port, or we all discussed many times that it will happen with situations like those that have been put here on the table about sanitation. So I deeply regret the lack of initiatives so that you have your minute of glory in Parliament every full. That they have to go to this sort of thing... I'll do what I do from now on -- if I have time next week -- is a list of things that are practically finished to pass to Mr. Balsairo and that I can put an initiative on top of the table in which to say that the management of the People's Party is absolutely correct. What people in Burela need is a People's Party that commits to people, who don't spend public money, who don't double the cost of infrastructure and use public money to give our people and our citizens jobs worthy of our land. I'm sorry that you have to do these paperwork here, but, well, it's clear that you're delighted with that attitude and that, of course, in this case, you're going to count on the positive vote of our organization, because there's obviously nothing else left to vote for something that's almost done. That's right, God forbid it doesn't end, eh!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u252	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Mr Val Alonso has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u253	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we see again what we can already consider as a classic. A classic in this legislation is an initiative by the People's Party, specifically Mr. Balsairo, which, in fact, has no background or content, a sterile initiative. And I'm saying this because it's already said here, we're talking about a work that's practically finished. A few days ago, the workers themselves of that contractor company announced in a media that, if there is no time limit, probably in August this work will be completed. Therefore, it is something that is already fully guaranteed and I, in this case, would ask Mr. Balsairo if you think that some citizen of the Navy, or some neighbour of Burela, believes and swallows this scenario that you intend to do again here today. If you think it's likely that you come here today to draw on the completion of a work in 2016, which was initiated by such well-known Bipartite in 2007, and that it was indeed a work in which there were problems, judicial problems, as Mr. Balsairo said well here – he denounces a landowner affected by this plot and that it was resolved judicially – and that you later, with your actions, were in charge of delaying until the end of this year 2016. I have to remind Mr. Balsairo, if you don't know, that you have varied the layout and the project of this work that was subjected to public exhibition in 2011; he finished the public exhibition of this project in April 2011. So you were three years old, or it took you three years – once you have done the project and publicly exposed – to hire the work that was done in the summer of 2014, with a run-in of twenty-four months. Therefore, the competition itself and the adjudication of the work guarantee a term of completion, that term of termination is twenty-four months logically fulfilled in August of the same year 2016. But what it does is to show the way the People's Party acts. The Socialist Party presented in each and every of the amended budgets to be included in the budgets of the Galician Union this work in the years 2012 and 2013. The People's Party always voted against, delayed its start until 2014. So what this action demonstrates is the way the People's Party has to treat citizens, as if we were fools; they delay the completion of a work in more than six years and now they come to sell the product to the Galician Parliament. Therefore, I believe, Mr. Balsairo, that it would be good for all to banish this way of doing politics and treating people, and above all the citizens of the Navy. Citizens of the Navy are perfectly aware of what the People's Party is doing and who know exactly what the turn and action of the People's Party has been doing in this performance, they know what their commitment and the delay in the execution of this work is, as they also know what their commitment to major infrastructures for the Navy region, how it can be the high-capacity route, of which you have not even been able to execute, or to put in place, not one single frame in the Navy region, despite the fact that they have been running and tendered already in 2007. Or we could also talk about very important issues, how can this so repeated enlargement of the Coast Hospital, of which we now know nothing. We know there's an ad, but the works at the moment haven't started yet. So, there are vital issues for the Navy district that could be brought by you here today, not evidence and something as clear as the completion of a work that the competition itself sets a deadline of twenty-four months. The Socialist Party will vote in favour, it can't be any other way. A matter as elementary as this one wouldn't even deserve to occupy parliamentary space. I hope, Mr. Balsairo, that you in future treat the citizens of the Navy more responsibly and do not come here only to look for a press headline in the morning to say that Balsairo urges the Government to finish a work that is almost finished. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u254	Thank you, Mr. Val. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Balsairo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u255	Thank you, President. Mr. Val, you've talked about classics, it may be a classic, but I'd tell you that I'm current on this subject and I'll explain why. Almost this weekend, as you know, that you live near Burela, lives in the village of Foz, were Burela's parties, which you didn't go to. Whoever's talking to him went to the procession and was in the procession, by chance, with the Burela government team. [[Laughter]] And the Burela government team is from the Socialist Party, and what some member of the Burela government team told me was: "Thank you for taking this initiative to Parliament that our Member does not know and you have to take it with you supporting the government. That's what some fellow told me. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm not saying this for anything, I'm telling you at parliamentary headquarters, it's going to be a record of what I'm saying here, and I'm telling you because that's what I was told. I know you're worried about that, but the Navy's initiatives have to bring them in is because you're not able to bring them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But that is not a problem for the People's Party, it will be a problem for the Socialist Party and for those who put it to you in the Socialist Party, it will not be a problem for the People's Party. Then to speak of classic, man!, to speak of classic Mr. Fajardo of a classic in the Town Hall of Burela seems good to me, that you speak of living next door not. That you speak of a work in which you visit the board of Galicia 8 million euros and which is essential for Burela's development, for Burela's business development and for the development of the badge ship Burela has, which is the port, seems to me a daring to tell you. Mr. Fajardo is able to say that and much more, because after the success that Mr. Fajardo had in the Navy... you did. [[Murmurs.]] He went to give some fishing talks to Celeiro. Do you know how many people there were? Three people, he and two others went with him. Of course! [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then, after that success of speaking in Parliament's rostrum, it's all right! [[Murmurs.]] Well, look, we thank you for supporting this initiative. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It must not be such a bad initiative when you support it, it must not be so bad. We are grateful for the support and with this initiative we are going to fulfil a commitment that the People's Party had, a commitment that the Government of Galicia had to the marine neighbours and, in particular, to the Burela neighbours, which is to make the most important infrastructure at this moment, together with the expansion of the Coastal Hospital, to Burela Town Hall. And, Mr. Val, you hear a little more about what's going on in the Navy. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u256	Mr. Balsairo, the amendment of the BNG Group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u257	Madam President, the amendment of the BNG speaks of EDAR, we agree that this EDAR is necessary; already the People's Party being advisor José Manuel Barreiro mounted an EDAR in the Town Hall of Burela, incidentally in the port of Burela, but it is also true that there is a commitment, that the project is being drafted at this time and that work is going to be carried forward. [[Murmurs.]] As you will understand, Madam President, nothing has to do with access to the Burela port with the Burela EDAR. Mr. Pombo has no problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u258	I understand, then, that you do not accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u259	...can present that initiative that we accept and support it. At this point, we will leave the initiative as presented by the People's Party. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u260	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u261	...that's what the neighbors of Burela want. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-06-07-DSPG156.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Balsairo. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning.
