ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u1	Good morning. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. She justified her inattentiveness to Mrs. Maria Rosa Quintana Carballo. We're already on the agenda, which has this preliminary point. Promises or oaths to abide by and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia by the new Members and the new Member
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u2	In particular, by complying with Article 7 of the Regulation, I am seeking the promise or oath to abide by the Constitution and the Statute for the Self-Government of the new Members and the new Member. According to the procedure, the formula is to answer "Yes, I swear" or "Yes, I promise" to the question of this presidency. The secretary will call on the honourable Members and the honourable Member to answer the question posed by this presidency from the scene itself. Ladies and gentlemen, do you swear or promise to comply with and maintain fidelity to the Constitution and to the Statute for the Self-Government of Galicia?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u3	Mrs. Maria Ángeles García Míguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u4	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u5	Don Carlos Gómez Salgado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u6	Yes, I promise.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u7	Mrs. Maria Julia Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u8	Yes, I swear.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u9	Thank you very much. Once the promise or oath is given, they acquire the full status of Members and Members, and we welcome them to this House. We have already entered the cumulative debate on requests for a commission of inquiry. Application for the establishment of an investigative committee, on a proposal from the 41 Members and Members belonging to the G.P. Galician people, to analyze and evaluate the economic and financial evolution of the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of their transformation into banks, including the millionaire compensations of their former directors, in order to complete the work carried out in the IX legislation Application for the establishment of an investigation committee, on a proposal from the GGs. PP. of the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block, to analyze and evaluate the results for the Greek financial system of the merger of the old Greek savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of its transformation into a private banking institution, to investigate the sale of Novagalicia Bank and the credit situation in Galicia, establishing a maximum period of completion of its six-month work, starting from the work carried out in the IX legislation, and opening a new period of appearances and requests for documentation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u10	So we started with the debate — shared debate, as I have already commented — and it begins, firstly, with the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, Mrs. Pontón, you can raise your question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u11	Good morning. You, Mr President, are the oldest Member of this House — if I am not mistaken — and you know perfectly what are the uses and what are the rules that I am rejecting the debates in this Parliament. Today — as you have pointed out — there is a first initiative, which is the creation of the Committee on Research by the People's Parliamentary Group, and in this kind of debate the normal thing is that the debate begins the first group that registered this initiative. This is not only about investigation committees, but also about non-law proposals. And even if we go to the background in the past legislation, we see that, when we also discussed in the past legislation — on 18 December 2012 — the creation of research committees on boxes, there were two requests: one by the People's Group and one by the Socialist Group; who started the debate at that time was the People's Group. To change this criterion, we understand that it breaks with what Parliament's practices are in all areas. They even made a correction at the last hour of the script. And the only justification you have is a favourable deal so that the People's Party can close this debate. It does not seem logical to us, and what we ask of you, Mr President, is that parliamentary use should be maintained and that we should not start this legislation by acting in a way that clearly shows that the management of debates wants to favour the position of the People's Parliamentary Group. Therefore, with no reason, we have asked you, Mr. President, with all the cordiality in this beginning of legislation, that we have not broken the rules of the game anything else to begin with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. This matter, as you will understand, I treated it with the Juridical Services yesterday. That if he did in the past legislation doesn't mean he was okay, and we're in time to be able to fix it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The debate, the ability to accumulate debates, is a capacity that it has, which is attributed to this presidency, and so we are doing it. And in the management of the debates, according to the regulation, it clearly contains that it must always be smaller than the greater. So we're going to respect the philosophy of what the regulation says. So if I did in another legislation, it doesn't mean I was fine, according to what I spoke to the Juridical Services. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, we'll do it right. And we started the debate, therefore, with the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u13	Good morning, gentlemen. I think it's all a symbol like we just started. We have started this Parliament - I feel like it - with a spell. I don't know if the Group of the People's Parliament considers this to be so difficult to defend that it has to close the debate, to see if the only thing is its truth. I think it's a very sad way of starting discussions in this House. And going to the question, I wanted to start my speech today with a quote from a British politician who said that time is precious, but that truth is much more precious than time. And certainly, in relation to the case investigation commission, the People's Party has deliberately lost us a precious time to know the truth, but we will continue to work so that the truth is really known and we are not deprived of the Greek and Germans of knowing what the reasons are, not only of the disappearance of the boxes and of the Greek financial sector, with what that means for our country, but also that they have to assume responsibilities, both from the political and management spheres. And it is still a symptomatic fact, at the same time as a delective fact of what should be the democratic functioning of the institutions, which we are debating today again the creation of an investigation commission on the boxes. We're talking about the creation of an investigation commission on the boxes six years after the merger of the boxes, which ended in fiasco; we're discussing the creation of the commission of investigation three years after a fraudulent sale of Novagalicia Bank; or we're debating, again, four years after the formation of an investigation commission in this same House has already been formed, which had to analyse the causes and responsibilities of the fiasco of the Greek financial system. But the truth is, we had a commission of investigation that we didn't let him investigate and that he was kidnapped by most of the People's Party. All this time, the People's Party was unable to give us a single convincing reason why for 1,460 days we could not investigate and complete the work of that commission. Obviously, it cannot be said that the cause was the electoral advance, as at one point I heard Mr. Pedro Puy say, because if from 2003 to 2016 the reason was an electoral advance of a month, of course, something was done very badly. But you know perfectly well the People's Party who, behind the closure of the commission of inquiry, is a deliberate political decision: that clearly did not want the truth to be known. But we continue to insist that research committees should work if we want to have credibility, but also because they should serve to clarify what happened with the management of the boxes, which happened with a merger that, according to Mr Feijóo — absent — would convert the Galician box into the fifth state box and was a personal success of him, but that at the end of the day the only thing that meant was that more than 9,000 million euros were lost from all the Greeks and Greeks, who fired more than 1,000 workers from this entity, who closed offices, and that after all, the most serious thing is that there is no manager or political officer who had the protection of the boxes that he was paying for this in prison. And, for us, it is a real failure that after all that has happened, after it has wasted itself, that it has been disappointed, that it has been cheated and that it has been irrevocably enriched by the cost of the savings of the Greeks and the Greeks, there is not a single person who actually had not spent a single day in jail. Because I suppose you will agree with me that the sentence of the former box directors is the only thing that sacralizes is that they will not spend a single day in jail and that it is an absolutely insufficient and disappointing judgment from the point of view of how justice should act. In the Galician Nationalist Block, we have made it clear that there is a responsibility to manage the boxes of the former directors of the latter, but that there are also political responsibilities for decisions that have been taken over the past few years and clearly meant to end in that place. And I am convinced that, if Mr. Núñez Feijóo had a calm conscience and if, of course, he was free from all guilt in relation to everything that has happened in the boxes lately, he would have let the investigation commission work freely in the past legislation. But the truth is, Mr. Feijóo knows that he was an accomplice to the breakdown and disappearance of the boxes and also to a sale which was a scam in every rule to the Greeks and to the Greeks. We believe that, clearly, the only decision that the People's Party made in the past legislation in relation to the commission of investigation was that it wanted to paralyze the investigation so that it would not come to light those uncomfortable truths that bother the People's Party; the uncomfortable truth that Feijóo was responsible for an extra time for the former directors of the boxes, who used to shield immoral and illegal compensation; the uncomfortable truth that the sale of the Galician box was made at an absolutely ridiculous price — got more benefits the first year than it cost that Venezuelan entrepreneur. And despite all this, we continue to insist that, despite the past, it is important that the truth be passed and that there really exists a serious, rigorous commission of investigation and that it analyze everything that happened during...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u15	... these last few years. We believe that we have to investigate what happened so that there was a breakdown in the boxes, so that it would end up being a fiasco this merger sponsored by Mr. Núñez Feijóo, but a lot more has happened since 2012. There has been a sale which, of course, we believe, was a ruinous sale, which must also be investigated by this Parliament, and clearly we have to analyze that this cannot be dilated during another legislation and that we have another four years lost in connection with the investigation commission. We believe that the logic would be that, since there are two proposals to set up research committees, the People's Party had accepted a transaction so that not only what it is currently putting in the object of the research commission that wants to create the People's Party, but that we really look at everything that has happened in the financial system in recent years, because the rest will start with a lame commission, which I fear will...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u17	...to have the same fate as the past: either not to investigate or to draw conclusions in accordance with the report already prefabricated by the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to an issue which is probably the greatest example of the earlier legislation on the spousal use of institutions by the People's Party. If we moved to the gastronomy phase, we would move between that Magdalen of Proust, in search of lost time, and the Albarinth with which Mr. Feijóo offered the fusion of the boxes in Monte Pio. I know they don't match too well, I'm not very gourmet, but I think the Magdalena and the blueberry don't match too well. Six years ago we started this adventure, and the fact is that the People's Party had a behavior for this voice, and for the Socialist Group, absolutely inexplicable. He's been voting against the creation of an investigation commission on the process of merging the yellow boxes, and a good day, indeed, on a fall of the horse, I don't know if Damascus or some less dangerous place right now, he's decided to apply for an investigation commission on the fusion of the yellow boxes. Of those we are here, we are probably few who remember a month of July I don't know if to say exhausting, but, of course, with appearances tomorrow and afternoon, several appearances tomorrow and afternoon, with an armored room that looked like the TTIP negotiating room in Brussels, in which we had to tell the officials of this Parliament that we wanted to photocopy Members so that no information would be leaked. I would like to remind you — as I have said here at one time, but as there are new people — that information that the members of the European Parliament had to request that it be photocopied — by the way, in a very bad quality, it is true that I am short-sighted, but it cost me a lot of work to see — some of the visitors, summoned by the People's Party, had already brought it perfectly printed in color and bottled. This was the political ecosystem in which the case investigation commission was developed. I insist, what we photocopied in black and white, half gray, a audience of the People's Party brought it printed in color and canned. That month passed, and some people, specifically the former Governor of the Bank of Spain, Mr. Miguel Ángel Fernández Ordóñez, stated that he could not appear in July, but offered to appear in September, and the People's Party refused because there was a great deal of haste, September 2013; 2013, I insist. September 2013. We couldn't wait until September 2013 because there was a lot of hurry. And finally, we're in December 2016, I remember. In June 2016, the People's Party again refused to request documentation on the sale of Novagalicia Banco: again the horse, again Damascus and again a fall. And now we're back on a request for an investigation commission on the boxes. I'll make, in the short time that we have, an expressionist view of the request. First question. There are four autonomous communities that have savings boxes: Catalonia, Euskadi, Aragon and Andalusia. Interestingly, three of them via Article 151. The only way Article 151 doesn't have it is Galicia. I say this because the People's Party is going to say that this is a fact common to all the autonomous communities of Spain: Catalonia, Euskadi, Andalusia and Aragon, Caixabank, Kutxabank, Unicaja and Ibercaja. Boxbank, right? No, I said Caixabank, Catalonia; Kutxabank, Basque; Ibercaja, Aragon; and Unique, Andalusia. Controlled by foundations of savings boxes. So with the social and financial structure of the savings banks, which I know. Now also the chronological-political-personal question of the Spanish and Greek financial system in the last decade. Because I'm tired of the vision that in 2004, with the arrival of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's government in Spain, and in 2005 in Galicia by Mr. Pérez Touriño, an explosive cyclogenesis was unleashed in the real estate sector of this country, which ended miraculously, also in 2009 in Galicia with Mr. Feijóo's arrival and in 2011 with Mr. Rajoy's arrival. At the Banco de España between July 2000 and March 2006, the governor was Mr. Jaime Caruana, appointed by the Aznar Government. By the way, with a rotating door, because it seems that when Mrs. Magdalena Álvarez went to the rotating door it was a State crime, but when Mr. Caruana went to the International Pay Bank of Basel, where she is, it was natural. Because it is understood that the leaders of the People's Party, when they leave high office in Spain, seek high office abroad. Soria case, he said. Mr. Miguel Ángel Fernández Ordóñez arrived in 2006 and left in 2012, with which Mr. Linde has been there for four years. Maybe I'd have something to tell us. I think it's important, too. And in relation to the personalities that have to appear. Mr. Miguel Ángel Fernández Ordóñez, whom I hope this time there is not so much hurry and can come, especially because in these three years he has made many very interesting statements about the process of merging the Greek boxes. I'm almost sure that now, with this new investigative vocation of the People's Party on the subject, it will be so. I'm almost sure, too, that Mrs. Fernández Curras, who refused to come because she was a Secretary of State for Budgets, now that she's in Ernst & Young, I think she's already -- or at least she's been awaiting government authorization to move to work to Ernst & Young, which I think is very good, but there's also a rotating door; by the way, this tour is at an incredible speed, because I think there's still practically no appointed replacement, or it's only been two weeks long -- I hope that now she can come and she doesn't say she's a member of the Government of Spain and therefore she doesn't have to appear in the German Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u21	It's over, Mr. President. Finally, I have information, that, of course, it is perhaps biased, that -- I insist, I put it between quotes -- the information that has been made available to us on KPMG's audit in this Parliament was not complete. I hope, somehow, to contrast it; but at last, I have that information. And then I hope, too, that the report that the Socialist Party called for by Article 9 and that it was not provided to us would only be missing!, about the McKinsey/Nomura report on the necessity of the imperious and practically inevitable sale of Novagalicia Bank to the Banesco Venezuelan bank, because it is also provided to us.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u22	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u23	Therefore, reports, people and political chronology of decisions made on Galicia's financial system. That's what we want to work on and investigate...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u25	...the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u26	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. After listening to the spokespersons of the Socialist Group and the Galego Nationalist Group, one of the nice anecdotes I lived in when I was carrying out academic responsibilities, which was to preside over a bachelor's session of a promotion of those many in the Faculty of Rights. In these promotions there were three groups, three shifts of hours, and spokesmen from the three groups of students who studied. And they went out to speak before me, who had to close the act, and put the academic institution, its teachers, the educational process that they had just finished. Obviously, I remember that I left the passage with all the parents and all the mothers looking at what their children were saying about the educational process that they had just concluded, that it was basically not worth anything, and I said that the goal of education was to learn to be critical, and that this demonstrated that we were successful. I remembered this anecdote because it turns out that nothing has been investigated here, but Mr. Losada and Mrs. Pontón already know what happened, they have already come to their conclusions. And one of the two, if you haven't investigated and you haven't investigated, that you've had all the documentation there to be able to investigate it -- what it means is that you've already had time -- because if you haven't investigated it was because you didn't want to, and you're talking about prejudices and you're doing what's just the opposite, what you shouldn't be, an instrument to inform about what happened and demand responsibilities, in your case, and it's not a place where you use it politically with prejudices to disqualify a government which, by the way, has behaved at the height of the country. Having said all this, I would like to recall that, indeed, the Spanish financial system has undergone an unprecedented transformation, the set of the Spanish financial system; between 2009 and 2012 it has passed from 50 entities with intense business activity and from good size to only 12. Among them, by the way, one of the survivors was the Etcheverrian Bank, the oldest in the Spanish financial system, created in 1717 at Betanzos, which was what was formally, by the way, was the auction within the Banesco Group for the final auction of Novagalicia Banco, which was as it was called at the time of its resolution. One such process of reducing financial institutions that has caused concern, above all, because, as we know, we discovered the fraud of the preferences and also, in the middle, we discovered the millionaire compensation that all of us were scandalized that all the former directors of the boxes had been taken away; particularly those who chaired the box and those who had responsibilities in the box at the time when the Spanish legislation, adopted in times of the Socialist Party, disappeared the boxes and all became banked. Everyone, Mr. Losada, because one thing is called Caixabank, you'd have to ask why it's called Caixabank, or that there's a foundation that has shares in a bank... yes, in a bank that has a home in Madrid, on the other hand. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Because it is true that the foundation has its home in Barcelona, but the bank is domiciled in Madrid. Well, then, said all of this, the truth is that there was a fundamental social concern, and so in the IX legislation we started a research commission, which I remember was unanimously adopted in this plenary, which also met this commission on April 11, 2013 and unanimously approved by all groups — socialist, nationalist, then called the Left-Galga Alternative and the People's Party — their work plan, and which asked for documentation and appearances, documentation that only contributed to UNTA, as you know. Junta sent everything she had on that file, while other institutions, starting with the Banco de España, didn't send anything. And, of course, that's what we said. It's true that things have changed a lot, it's true that time I think it can serve to cool the debate and, therefore, to arrive at the right conclusions. At the moment, for example, the entity has EUR 1.707 million back to the preferenceists, which says a lot. 80% of the preferenceists have recovered 100% of their investment, so things have changed, and I understand that this is the time — according to Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, which brought down the commission at the end of the past legislation — of trying to reach reasonable, sensible conclusions and that they really explain what happened to the Greek financial system. We have spoken — I hear a little bit of what the aim of our committee is, which, I insist, was adopted unanimously, a work plan also approved unanimously, a list of representatives also approved unanimously — that this committee has, indeed, a very valuable documentation. In 2013, in the summer of 2013 — a summer in which Mr. Losada made a special effort, so it seems; we, of course, lived it as a need for intense work, and it was what we did — came here the former president of the Union, of the People's Party — of course, nothing more, was the only former president who came in — the former general directors of the boxes, the former chairmen of the boxes, the advisers who carried the matter in all governments, the general directors of financial policy and those responsible for the matter and who were at that time in the exercise of the position. Mr. Fernández Ordóñez, governor of the Banco de España when this came about, through a written appearance, with possibility of reply in writing, as Mr. Almunia appeared, that you in the first test did not want to ask him questions but in the second they said: man, it turns out that the answer is that it is useful, and they also sent him a test to answer. He also attended the chairman of the National Securities Market Commission, Mr. Julio Segura. They compared audit experts, also those who did the questioned audits of the cash registers, and bank experts, as well as those affected. So we have some very valuable appearances there, which, in addition to allowing me to remind you, have occurred, as I said, in the summer of 2013, and that in November 2013 and referred to this commission in January – if I don't recall the year 2014 – along the way there has been a statement by the State Council that no authority related to the control of the state-level financial system has the slightest obligation to appear in an investigation commission of an autonomous parliament. Why? Because, indeed, just as there was an important concern in Galicia, there was also in Catalonia, and they also requested the presence of officials of the Ministry and officials of the Banco de España, and the same happened in Extremadura. That report, by the way, is in the commission of the boxes; therefore, it can also be studied by the groups perfectly. As a result, it is most likely that this unique event that took place in 2013, in which officials of the Banco de España, the National Securities Market Commission, the European Commission and even persons who occupied positions in the Government of Spain, such as the former Counsellor and the Secretary of State of Budgets, would appear in the commission, is an unrepeatable fact and we must value. So in no case do we understand that this was useless; it's the other way around: what we think is that we have to use it to reach the relevant conclusions. Times. It's true that there was a decision to cool the debate, but I'm going to explain why, because I'm also responsible. In this case, moreover, if you have to apologize for the delay, I personally ask you, because the president on this issue can tell you that, on a private level, it is a few things — and I also say with a certain honor — that you have recriminalized me: you have not finished this report before. But the truth is, first of all, we didn't want to interfere with the recapitalisation process of the bank and the start-up process of the new bank. I think no one here made any reference to what Abanca means for the Greek economy, but the fact that Abanca could get out without noise related to his activities, doing so, we made him a great service to the country. It's true that Abanca has already started working in 2014 without any problem, but it's also true that you will remember that in 2015 the judicial issue, which was one of the fundamental reasons for research, which were millionaire compensations, was about to be resolved; in fact, the Supreme's judgment, which makes clear what was the conduct of its box officials, was produced by us in the election campaign. All this information, by the way, was requested by this group to refer it back to the committee, so that the commission had documentation on the judgement, first, of the National Court and then of the Supreme Court. It is true that in 2015, this House had other priorities, as you know, that it was to adopt a package of anti-corruption measures, which were their origin in the other commission that we created at that time, that it was inconclusive, but that we took good advantage of the legislation adopted in relation to the prevention of corruption that led to the adoption of a rather important package of measures, which was a priority for the completion of the commission of the boxes. It is true, too, as I say to you, that we now have all the information, including the Supreme Court's rulings on millionaire compensation. Finally, let's bring this and what motivates us? For what motivates us is precisely transparency, a peaceful debate and approval of a dictatorship, which can, of course, incorporate decisions or analyses on the sale at auction of Novagalicia Banco, there is no drawback; there is no inconvenience that the work plan includes the period of the six months that you enter into yours. But the truth is that we are the first ones to ask for this, as you recalled in your speech on matters of order to the spokesperson of the Block and that you came behind. Because if there is something that we want to make clear, it is that we have an interest, because we owe it to the country and we owe it to all of us, for leaving black on white what the evolution of the boxes was and what was the end result of that process of transformation of the Greek financial system. And that's why we're going to vote that "yes" to our own -- which is the same thing you voted in the past legislation -- and, of course, even though I'm going to extend later on, we're going to vote that "no" to yours, not only because two commissions on the same object are not compatible, but because there are quite a few interesting changes in your request for research on savings boxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u28	Thank you, Mr. Puy. The Parliamentary Group is not proposing, Mr Sánchez's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u29	I'm still in a state of shock listening to Mr. Pedro Puy's explanation that he's been three years without moving a role from the box investigation commission, I'm in shock. You told an anecdote and I was reminded of the "The Truth Machine" program. You're put on today or polygraph, repeat it, Mr. Puy; repeat it, you're put on the truth machine. In other words, it turns out that we have not been aware that the case investigation commission has not moved for three years and it turns out that Mr Puy, for his work and grace, decided, above the President of the Galician Council and the President of the Commission — at that time Mr Santalices — "no, no, this is because the debate must be cooled". We must favour the process of capitalisation of Novagalicia Banco and favour that Novagalicia Banco sells itself to a Venezuelan lord — not chavista, of course — who, after spending 9,000 million euros of public money for all, for 1.3 million euros, with tax benefits and in the first year will already get almost as many benefits as it cost you to buy it, and in the second year the first half 318 million euros of profits, which are divided by 315 dividends in 2015; a spectacular operation for Galicia, Mr Puy. It turns out that you have been given the responsibility of paralyzing this commission for three years. Why didn't you explain it at that time? Why didn't he go out publicly to explain that the debate had to be cooled and that therefore the case investigation commission was paralysed? Don't you realize that this explanation means that you've been taking the hair of this Parliament, the Members that we were demanding explanations why they were stopped and failing to respect the Greeks and the Greeks? Mr. Puy, why didn't you say what you said three years ago? Why didn't you say before the elections what you said today? Why do you come today — I don't know, in this attitude of having enough swallows, which I didn't suppose so much, Mr. Puy — say that you have decided that the president has nothing to do with this, that the debate should be cooled? Who are you to decide what to cool down a debate without explaining here, Mr. Puy? This is already the crane of the fur tomato paste of the patrimonialized use of the institutions of the People's Party; that's what we missed. And, Mr. Losada, you're not politically short-sighted, no. You say you were told that there was a lack of transcendent information in the so-called audit, which cost a million euros, which turns out it wasn't audit at the end; of course it was missing. If you were going to the index of that supposed audit, which was not, but which cost a million euros, and that drew out Mrs. Marta Fernández Currás, awarded for her talent, shown in the merger of the boxes, with a millionaire file, you would see: index, page 4 — I think — "carriage card". You went to page 4 and there was no "carriage letter," and we asked for it, and it wasn't, Mr. Puy. What is this: selective information? Only if he wanted to give one information and refused another? In that "carriage card" what did he appear? The criteria that Junta commissioned to study KPMG, which things she had to study for the auditor. Of course, it's transcendent information, it's information that compromises the position of the Business Council at that time, but it doesn't appear, it doesn't appear. Just as there were no internal reports from the Conseilerie d'Ovenda, from the officials of the Conseilerie d'Ovenda. Why didn't those reports appear? It was not appropriate, the debate was very heated to know that the officials of the Business Council, who, of course, were not going to pick up their fingers for an operation that had no economic support and that it was a political-election decision of Mr Feijóo and that he had no support, as some attendance here also said in the commission. Well, this is the story, after the story of a macrostafa, of a macrostafa. When we talk about corruption, Mr. Puy, we're talking about gifts, about Vega Sicily, about inappropriate rockets, but we're also talking about, Mr. Puy, about these big scams, about ending up with an entity that still means 41% of deposits in this country. And you say from Madrid it's not systemic; for the Spanish state it's not systemic; for us it's systemic, and we were waiting for a response from the Government of this country to defend an entity that was indeed systemic for this country. The scam of dedicating 9,000 million euros, recently recognised by FROB, which will be lost, 8,550 million euros, with the sale of Novagalicia Banco, of layoffs, of the scam of the preferences, etc., of promising a box of savings from Galicia and ending up with a Venezuelan bank — and then we have dangerous Venezuelan connections—. The macrostafa, which has direct managers, who were the cash managers themselves — by the way, were the kings of the mammoth, everyone takes pictures with them — those who considered them to be a private business, some boxes that should have a social end, which should be to fund the small initiatives, pemes, the primary sectors, which refused funding to have a Greek milk group and which instead embarked on adventures at the time of the brick. And in those times all the rulers who passed and all the leaders of the Conseileria de Fênda had responsibility and power, according to Galician Saving Box Law, to watch as they were managing. And what did they do to this policy of denying funding to primary sectors and instead of speculating, this speculation in the brick that was the cause of the unsustainable situation of the two boxes — one more than another —? What did they do to them? Will we be able to pass all this that I'm telling you and there's no political leader, who doesn't explain to the people who had to look after these direct managers, did nothing for the boxes to respond to the social objective that should have the boxes? Or how did we have to stop here that in the process of selling an entity that is systemic to this country we didn't even have access to any of the sales documents? We've applied for Newgaly Bank's sales book, we haven't been given. We're asking for that McKinsey report, which advised accelerated de-investment. Words are always invented to cover up the big looting, and they do it very well: fast deinvestment, eh!: quickly give the savings box to a Venezuelan bank. We have never been explained to Parliament, where the sovereignty of this country resides, that the entity which groups 41% of the deposits in this country would be sold. Neither here in Parliament nor anyone knew anything about what conditions. McKinsey, besides. I mean, in some supposedly democratic institutions, an auditor widely known by the spin doors, it's the one that decides when Newgaly Bank is sold, McKinsey. I don't know if it's normal, democratic, transparent. Not to us, of course. We're not talking about anything, Mr. Puy. You need to talk seriously about these issues, you can't take the hair of people. What is the result of this sale for this country? Well, because we have an Abanca management that is producing a real decapitalization of the entity. If we see the 2015 and 2016 accounts, we see that this gentleman's strategy is to sell cash assets, it's a short-term business. Look at the 2015 accounts and you'll see how your asset goes down in 7 billion euros for sale, among other things, from companies like R. That's what this gentleman is doing, doing fast business, decapitalizing the entity. And so we have savings, but we do not have proportionally the credit that this country needs. So, the only thing that would be worth listening here to from the spokesperson for the People's Party today -- because many of the things I'm saying, of course, if this commission is made up, there will be time to decide -- is an honest explanation, but not with us, with the citizenship, of why you handled -- in your anger and by election interest -- the functioning of a box investigation commission, which was supposed to clarify the truth, and why you were three years without doing anything, without knowing what was going on, and you came here three years later to give an explanation that, the truth, is unlikely, Mr. Puy, and if you would not explain it at that time. If we don't, we'll have to think again that the only thing they do again, handling the times and manipulating, is to create the principle of legislation a commission, but they have no real intention of knowing and knowing the truth, what they intend to do again is to do what was the previous commission of research: a true paripé. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u30	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Replica round of requesting parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Puy, as usual in it, came here to convert everything into a meteorological phenomenon, the investigation commission was not finished, because it had to be like that. Now it gives us a second version, and it is that he, who is above Parliament, above democracy, decided that the investigation commission should be cooled. It's funny, Mr. Pedro Puy, because in 2015, when we were discussing in this House the paralysis of the case investigation commission, in particular a PNL that defended the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Mr. Trenor, who was acting at that time as spokesperson, said that the commission was not stopped, but it was working, and that we were inventing a parallel reality here. Well, let's go for the third or fourth version of what are the causes of the paralyzing of the investigation of the sale of the boxes, but for Mr. Pedro Puy it's all normal. I imagine he is above the laws, because Mr. Puy knows perfectly well that here, in this House, unanimously, rules governing the operation of the committee have been adopted. I am convinced that you have a good memory, and that you are a person who is documented, and in those rules of operation, in your second article, that commission said that you had to finish your work in three months, or at most that you had to finish them in July 2013, but in democracy, that we have just known "power", because, clearly, Mr. Pedro Puy is above Parliament, the rules and normal functioning of any kind of democratic institution, where if all the political forces come to an agreement to establish a commission, there is no reason for that commission to be stopped. The reality is that you have no interest in investigating, or in knowing the truth, if not, Mr. Puy, that commission would have finished its work; it could be at the end of 2013, we were willing to accept it, but not reach exactly the year 2016 in the same situation. Our group, in spite of everything — as I said to you — believes that the truth is much more valuable than time, and therefore we are fully prepared to form, unanimously, a commission of inquiry in this Parliament, which analyses what has happened to the entities, which has passed through these compensations from the former managers of the absolutely scandalous boxes, and I remind you that those compensations have collapsed in an extra time, of what is responsible for the People's Party and also the Socialist Party. You changed a law that put those ex-directors out of the boxes so they could go ahead of them, or am I lying, Mr. Puy? You know, perfectly, that this was so, and therefore what you cannot come here and try to hide your shames. We are about to add to the object of the investigation commission that we have also investigated the sale of Novagalicia Banco, and that we have already reached an agreement that in six months a new deadline will be opened, and we will finish the work of the investigation commission. We believe it is important that we do so unanimously, and that we actually investigate everything at all. The Galician Nationalist Block has a clear will in that direction, the question, Mr. Pedro Puy, is if you don't want it to be investigated that happened with the sale of Novagalicia Banco. We're worried about knowing what happened to sell an entity when there was no reason to do so, with a loss to the public era of EUR 8.500 million.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u32	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u33	If you don't worry, the truth is it's hilarious about what are the uncomfortable truths they want to hide from the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The truth, Mr. Puy, is that you reminded me of Mr. Ripley, absolutely, in this intervention: the shift of prism about the speech of the facts. The truth is that it's okay, it's fine as an exercise of... finally, of modification, it's okay. Of course, we told you from the beginning, and I want to remind you, in addition, that you were right when you said we unanimously supported a schedule of appearances and a schedule of development of the commission. I also want to remind you that the People's Party has refused to appear before the former governor of the Banco de España, Mr Caruana, and the current governor at that time and at this time, Mr Linde. We're going to keep asking for these appearances, because I repeat that I don't think that any astral conjunction had led to exactly the Government at Mr Fernández Ordonez's Spanish Bank, which led to this situation. I'm sure you remember the letter from the bank inspectors' association in 2006, Vice President Pedro Solbes on Mr. Caruana's role in regulating the Spanish financial system. And, therefore, I think charges appointed by the People's Party have a lot to say on this issue. Mr. Fernández Ordonez, who indeed, as you said, appeared in writing, because you were not willing to wait a month until he would appear orally—I remind you that it was a month, we were at the end of July and he offered to think it was the first Monday of September, that is, a month—for he said some interesting things. Interesting things that, by the way, he said in a book that he recently published and that some of Galicia's media picked up, some did not, but some did, some did, some picked it up and I think it quite in detail. I understand that here, as in other matters, there are also, in the end, judges and parties. FROB is willing to have Mr. Fernández Ordonez declare by Bankia, i.e. by the Government, by the Executive, FROB depends on the Executive. And that Mr. Guindos, and what happened in these three years of paralysis, you understand that it's a paralysis, I understand that we were talking about a tactical paralysis, that what he wanted was a dictate of extreme purity, almost laboratory, and that there were therefore no exogenous elements — it's just the sale of the bank or the judgments of the directors — that changed this question. To us the sale of the bank — we said it from the beginning — of Novagalicia Banco, seemed to us opaque, inopportune and hasty. By the way, Mr. Guindos in 2015 has said solemnly: "We're not going to malvender Bankia, you're an asset that will be worth more and more." Well, it happened something like the active Novagalicia Banco, because in 2015 it was the smaller entities in Spain that had the best benefit ratio in relation to assets. You have, and I'm going to read the company's financial results, because I think it's also appropriate to know exactly what this Autonomous Community has renounced in public terms, or the Government of Spain; I know that this decision was not a decision by the Government of Greece, that's obvious, but I also know who ruled with an absolute majority in Madrid.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u36	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u37	Abanca had in 2014... well, first, Abanca paid 1 billion euros for Novagalicia Banco, to pay in four years since 2013. That is, in theory 2014-2017, 1 billion euros. Benefits in 2014, 1,157 million euros, with a process of de-investment of brutal assets. In 2015, 330 million euros. In 2016, in the first three quarters, 267 million euros. That is, 1,754 million euros from January 2014 to September 2016. And it's going to pay up to 2017 1 billion euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u38	Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u39	Was it really not possible for the public to manage this asset, which, exactly like Bankia, would be worth more and more? Now what's worth, Mr. Puy, and you know perfectly well, is less than 8,000 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u40	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u41	Well, I had concluded my speech by saying that, of course, we want so much transparency that we brought this to this House, and you came drags, five days later, signing an investigation commission. But it's just that, in addition, if I didn't want the commission of inquiry to vote on it, it wasn't the commission of investigation that was already there. Therefore, commitment to transparency is clear and clear. [[Applause]] Some things have been said, and even the spokesman now at Marea said he was in shock. Man, I hope you'll recover from this state of shock, which at any rate I hope it wasn't as intense as when Mr. Beiras left the commission and left you with the cardboard he assumed, with swallows, really, of being there holding on to that [[Applause]] Because I remind you that, after agreeing to the documentation's appearances, and all that, a good day, curiously coincided with the appearance of the president of that Novagalicia Banco, one day they decided to be observers. Well, I don't know if they're still observers or what they want to do. We want to approve a dictate to explain exactly what happened. An explanation is obvious. First, Mrs. Pontón, you, who has a good memory, probably wasn't in that commission when we approved the work plan, and I said that in six months I couldn't afford to do the commission. But that's all, it's just that over the six-month period that had been put into the workplan, you haven't registered the list of appearances yet, you've been registered after six months. So, it's true that there were delays, it's true that we didn't finish the work with the premature we wanted, it's true that I had a certain responsibility. First, and basically, and I'm going to say it, because to me what I don't like is for Parliament to do the ridiculous thing, and when there's a commission of inquiry that's coincident with your work exactly what a judicial action is, in this case of the National Court, I'm telling you the truth, I'd rather wait for the National Court to pronounce itself, and if there's an appeal before the Supreme Court, I'd rather wait for the Supreme Court to pronounce itself. Because we would do the ridiculous thing if we came to a conclusion in a parliamentary commission of inquiry other than the courts of Justice. So that patience for waiting for the resolution of the work of justice seems to me to be prudent. You say I'm above the law, when exactly what it means is exactly the opposite, it's maximum with respect to the rule of law and the performance of powers, each one in its place! [[Applause]] I also told them that we want to finish the research committee's work, which has an impressive and important flow of information. You, on the other hand, change and ask for another commission of inquiry. We asked that economic-financial evolution be studied, that in some intervention it was said to have been the expansion of the brick and all that had caused the crisis of the boxes. That with your research object is not, what they care about is the merger, which was actually done without a vote against this House, no vote against it, no vote against this House! They want to study the causes and responsibilities of transformation into a private bank, investigate the sale and investigate the situation of creto in Galicia. Well, I mean, they don't want to study what happened in the expansion of the brick, because it's not in their research object. And they don't want to talk about the millionaire compensations, after all we hear here about the millionaire compensations. Obviously, we're going to continue with the work plan, I've already said there's no inconvenience in incorporating the documentation or the information available in connection with the sale. Of course, we have already spoken and discussed several times the subject of sale in this House, but of course, what we want to know is that it happened in the years 2005 to 2009, why the assets were damaged and why the boxes ended up becoming a bank, and finally a nationalized bank that had to be sold. And on the sale, Mr. Losada, you who are following the economic press carefully, you will be seeing Europe rush by the sale of Bankia these days, because it is about to meet the deadline. But you're already saying that you're going to make a lot of money the state is selling Bankia. Given the international financial situation, I think you're wrong in your diagnosis. But we'll see what happens with Bankia, how it sells and how much the loss of the state is. What I do know is that, when the old boxes were sold, it gave rise to a company called Abanca, which keeps employment in Galicia, 4,200 direct jobs, 81% of them work in Galicia. Abanca has a contribution to the total employment of Galicia, in direct employment, of 3,730; indirect, of 5,600; and, induced, of 6,569. Of the 667 offices that Abanca has throughout Spain, 540 are in Galicia. The indirect impact — studied by Abanca's Idega — of the privatized bank — is 11,13 % on Galicia's gross domestic product. And Abanca has 3,000 suppliers in Galicia, which has a total impact of around 74,000 employees and some EUR 170 million payments to the Greek suppliers. You can keep saying you've made a bad deal for Galicia. I still think it's a shame that the boxes were lost but that, fortunately — among other things, by the political performance of the People's Party Government — the business wasn't so bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u42	Thank you, Mr. Puy. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Yes, Mr. Losada? What do you want the word for? Give your voice to the scene.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u43	As the debate piled up, I wanted to see the possibility of making a transaction to vote on a single text setting up the committee.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u44	Mr. Puy?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u45	In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure are not known about the request that has just been made, I would ask the President to inform him — by consulting the Legal Counsel — about the impossibility of doing what the honourable Member has just asked him to do.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u46	Well, let's check it out. [[Pause.]] Looks like it's clear. There are no transactions in this case in the Regulation. No, it can only happen if there is unanimity in the vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then we'll vote. We will vote, but, of course, we must vote — as you will understand — on the two creations of committees. So we started voting... No, but it's not possible. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, according to the lawyer, it's not possible to do so. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The only chance is for you to vote, because... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, no, that of skipping the regulation by consensus, it's not possible at the moment. [[Murmurs.]] Well, we vote. Voting of requests for the creation of committees of inquiry
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u47	We begin by voting — if it seems to you — the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry, first of all, to request the forty-one Members and Members from the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. It has already been read on the constitution of this committee. We vote. Voting of the request for a commission of inquiry, by proposal of the forty-one Members and Members belonging to the G.P. Galician people, to analyze and evaluate the economic and financial evolution of the old savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of their transformation into banks, including the millionaire compensations of their former directors, in order to complete the work carried out in the IX legislation The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 45; abstentions, 27. The voting is positive. The creation of this committee is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u48	We are now voting on the proposal for a committee of inquiry of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting of the request to set up an inquiry committee, on a proposal from the GGs. PP. the Galician Socialists and the Galego Nationalist Block, to analyze and evaluate the results for the Greek financial system of the merger of the old Greek savings boxes and the causes and responsibilities of its transformation into a private banking institution, to investigate the sale of Novagalicia Bank and the credit situation in Galicia, establishing a maximum time limit for completion of its six-month work, starting from the work carried out in the IX legislation and opening a new period of appearances and requests for documentation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 31 votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. The creation of this committee is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u49	We move on to the second point, which corresponds to motions. G.P. motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr Luís Villares Naveira, on the measures to be taken by Junta de Galicia in relation to social exclusion and poverty
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u50	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u51	Mr. Villares has the floor to make the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u52	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against poverty and social exclusion is something that is of particular concern to this House, especially the members of the Government of the Union and many of the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] No, we're in Parliament and this is a good place to work too, especially when it's full, but good... and the government also works in full when it's full. [[Murmurs.]] As bad as you're here to receive the hints of the motion that In Marea has to present. This is the first motion, in this case, which presents In Marea in this legislation and which also coincides with the first motion which is debated in this plenary in this legislation in general. We didn't want it to be random to the selected subject: social exclusion and the fight against poverty. We know that it is a fundamental issue that concerns an important part of society, not only the people who suffer it but also the people who, in a shared solidarity exercise, want that through their representatives and through public administrations effective measures are being taken to end social exclusion and poverty situations in those cases where the situation is most acute. We therefore want to establish here the first commitment, as the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, to the people who have been through the worst, who are going through the crisis, and who have less opportunity and who have less opportunity to get out of here. It is therefore an exercise of social solidarity through the commitment of this House and its Government to all these people, which we believe deserves an additional effort by the public authorities to achieve conditions of equality — as always, not of privilege but of equal opportunities —. We also present a motion, after the interpellation held last week, that we understand that it is carried out in such broad terms that, by its flexibility, the consensus of the House, the possibility that all parliamentary groups can come to pass and, therefore, the Government has a roadmap on the fight against poverty and social exclusion, which we understand is good for society as a whole. From here on, I'm going to explain the specific purposes of this motion, beginning, first, with the establishment of an urgent shock plan that will allow the number of people in severe material deprivation to be reduced by 50% during this legislation. It has been said that, of course, the purpose of any organization to combat severe material poverty — hence, of the En Marea parliamentary group — is to reach point zero. But, in any case, we want to establish a concrete commitment to reducing at least 50% of the budget and stratified throughout the entire legislation, which begins with this same exercise of budgets that we are still debating, and which provides material content in order to achieve it and which gives rise to that material result at the end of the legislation. We know that there is severe material poverty when a person has to survive with less than 332 euros a month. That's the index below which a person is understood to be in severe material poverty. At present there are 132,000 women and men in Greek society — more women than men, because severe material poverty strikes women by gender than men, because they have fewer opportunities both in the workplace and in the social sphere — currently placed in the field of severe material deprivation. They assume 4.8% of the population of Galicia, who lives in this situation. It is a situation that, as we have reported in the previous plenary session, is going from bad to worse, because in 2014 it was 3.5% of the population and at the moment — with data from 2015 closed — it is 4.8%, which I assumed the increase of 38,000 people in one year. We find it particularly worrying because it assumes, in the face of the macro-figures given by the Board of Economic Recovery and the recovery of standards of well-being, really a impoverishment of the worst are happening, of the worst that have been going through, during the crisis and structurally within our society. We know that the recovery of standards of quality of life has not occurred equally to everyone. We denounce that there was an unequal escape from the crisis, an exit where the poor were the poorest and where the rich were the richest, and in which the new wage labor is a more precarious job. And this is the result of this: population layers that have no possibility of working, and that those who have it do not leave a situation of absolute precariousness and therefore this severe material poverty. We want a plan budgeted. We don't have that social inclusion strategy. We want the social inclusion strategy to be budgeted. We are in time for the 2017 budgets and we make an explicit call to people who are in a situation of severe material poverty, who have a socio-laboral integration plan and social assistance plan. These three issues that are budgeted for this year and are strategically prepared for us to achieve these objectives by 2020. Secondly, we call for a work plan to be developed so that, according to civil society agents and driven from public authorities, the situation of definitive relief from the situation of energy poverty can be reached, understanding by this the inability of a home or a family to satisfy a minimum of energy services to meet their basic needs. According to the Environmental Science Association, in our country, 455,000 Welsh people spend more than 10% of their annual income on energy spending, which is above the top recommended by all public bodies to be able to cope with this type of expenditure; and 200,000 Greeks and Greeks have difficulties in heating their homes. In addition, by different organizations — including this one — it is reported that every year 800 Welsh people die from incidents of cold, some because of direct causes related to poor combustion of heating systems and others directly due to the impossibility of properly heating their homes, which gives rise to diseases that have as their last cause a social nature and therefore preventable, such as energy poverty. The activity of Junta in this area is notoriously insufficient, and in fact, in 2016 — as of October closed — the Red Cross paid more than a thousand receipts of light, gas or water in our community. We understand that it is necessary to alleviate the situation of energy poverty, and for this they buy measures that not all of them are derived or are geared towards promoting compensatory aid in the event of default — which is what is most often seen — but an integral action to address this problem. Firstly, aid of a compensatory nature but also energy efficiency workers, the promotion of energy information points, home counselling or the execution of energy saving measures. Another of the proposals we bring here is to adopt in the next six months the regulatory decree of Law 10/2013, of social inclusion. The Social Inclusion Act was well received by social agents when it was passed at the time. But there was already a warning: many of its sections required regulatory development, and they did not come into force until they were developed regulatoryly. And then, from there, two government defaults. The first of them is that the last provision, in relation to normative development, says: "The Galician Union, within a maximum of six months since the adoption of the law, will develop the necessary provisions for its development and application." Well, this was published on December 31, 2013, which means that since June 30, 2014 you are violating a legal duty, established by the law itself, of comprehensive regulatory development of the Galician Social Inclusion Act. This is serious. But the most serious thing is that there are other provisions, such as the last second provision, about the entry into force, where it is said, among other things, that in the specific case of integration and transition to employment, their provisions will come into force only when the decree on which these tranches are regulated is published. But in addition, it has ended — in the additional provisions — in many of them — it is stated that the content of the rights announced there will only be effective when this is developed legally. That's why we want the law to be fulfilled at once. This is a commitment to legality, a commitment to inclusion and equal opportunities, not an abstract wish. It is the desire to comply with the law against a policy of the People's Party that is too common, which is that of the mere propaganda of approving laws that soon are not complied with because they have no regulatory development, because they have no development of specific administrative instructions and, above all, because they have no budgetary memory. Another of the measures we propose is the eradication of these standard housing deficiencies due to the impossibility of payment, both those of a banking or mortgage nature and those of a rental nature. We want the right to a decent housing to be guaranteed; they want property schemes, they want lease schemes, they want concession schemes, they want some kind of social benefit from the Greek Public Administration. We want to develop, in addition, and urgently, a strategy of social inclusion on employability for the most vulnerable groups in this country: women, who continue to suffer a differential of employment in relation to male occupation always above two, three, five, eight points, depending on the statistics used. The youth unemployment rate that reaches 28% in our country. Employment for older than 45 years in particular makes it difficult to enter labour and long-term unemployed who in many cases do not receive any kind of social benefit as a result of the situation in which access to the labour market is not possible. Finally, two questions to which I am referring now: firstly, the development of a cooperation and collaboration strategy to facilitate access to inclusion services. There is a constant denunciation of the associations that work in this sector, both of the Greek oenegas of development and [...], of the workers and workers at risk, that there are bureaucratic obstacles that prevent normal access to the ordinary and extraordinary expenses that dispense these inclusion services, and that can't be done. It cannot be that, because of bureaucratic obstacles, people, who are also often people who have a special need for access to these measures of social inclusion, do not often have a way to bring their demands directly to their own situation of social exclusion and information on access to those services, and that later bureaucratic obstacles still prevent them from being effective in this service. Greater proactivity is needed; greater proactivity is needed for public administrations to provide access to people who are in an objective position of their need. I end with the second of the proposals that we are drawing from this motion, which is to ask the German Parliament for its position on the intention of modifying the role of Risk as a subjective right by modifying those paragraphs which hinder access to the plaintiffs. Current Risk setting does not suffice. It's not enough. It is not enough because there are many situations of exclusion when it falls within the objective scope of application, which are people in a notorious situation of social exclusion both at work and at the socio-work and social health level. Persons affiliated to Social Security are currently excluded when they are not guaranteed to escape the risk of social exclusion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u54	There are precarious contracts and situations of monomantal families, in addition to usually monomantal families, where a simple precarious contract gives rise to the exit of the Risga and then its recovery results in a procedure which implies that during the interim there is no perceived benefit, which is not retroactive for the time in which the processing takes place. We must end the administrative instructions that set up abusive obstacles — and this is denounced by the workers and workers at the Risk of Galician Union. Risk, moreover, does not allow several people to live together with this benefit, which constitutes discrimination both in the context of couples and in relationships of cohabitation that are not exactly a couple character...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u55	Finish, please, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u56	Yes, I'm going to finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u57	No, it's over now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u58	Yes, I'm done. In the report for a Risga, and for a Fair Risga, drawn up in Galicia by different groups, it is claimed that the new profiles of applicants from the current economic crisis, also the situations of irregular migrants, which are not resolved negatively by administrative silence, that the impossibility of abrogating delays, will ultimately be met by a Fair Risga right of all and everyone living in minimum conditions of dignity in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u59	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u60	Good morning. Since the beginning of the crisis, cutting policies have been justified by the lie that there was no money; cuts have been justified in teaching, education, social cuts, science... as painful but inevitable measures. And under that lie, 90% of the population was looted: wages, pensions, social benefits, health care, education... while there was money to rescue banks, electrics or highway builders. It seems that if you want to introduce the story that we are coming out of the crisis, but it's coming out of the crisis with much worse wealth shared: richer rich and poorer, isn't it? The wealth accumulated in fewer hands, as Oxfam has qualified, an economy at the service of 1% where 62 people in the world have as much money as half the population, or that in the Spanish state, and within the OECD, the most growing are inequalities. That's the data and that escape from the crisis from which they so much like to go presuming. We are therefore faced with a situation of poverty, of extreme social deterioration. It's very serious because of the intensity of this deterioration, it's very serious because it's transversal and, above all, because it's no longer a conjunctural phenomenon, it's no longer a phenomenon of a crisis that's going to be overcome, but we're faced with a phenomenon that's already becoming structural. A structural problem aggravated because that, increasingly, diminishing the buffering role of the welfare state is becoming less damper. Teaching, health, dependence, which were pillars of that welfare state, are reeling and that directly affects people's lives. On October 17, the Galician Network against Poverty called us to publicize the state of poverty in Galicia. There were a whole series of data that found the generalized worsening of the social situation: that in Galicia, in fact, there are 702,000 people, 25.7% of the population, who are malviable at risk of poverty and social exclusion and who are, in fact, the most serious data, 106,000 more than the previous year. Not that the matter is less, Counselor, but more. What's worse is the situation of the worst. Severe poverty has recorded an increase of 38,000 people over the previous year, having a job that doesn't guarantee to get out of poverty, exclusion and poverty have a woman's face, they have faces of new people, 44.2% of the population of Galicia lives in situations of severe material deprivation; that means they can't cope with payments from their housing, heating payments, that they can't cope with an unexpected one. That is why the BNG will vote in favour of this initiative, which is very extensive, really encompasses almost all of the issues to be addressed. We tabled an amendment that we believe affects two aspects and one is the immediate payment of the risk. We agree with the issues that were raised here, but it's a cry that delaying and effective aid is a real problem; Risga is a fundamental aid for many people and it's not a receipt that dilates for months. That's why we are presenting a amendment which, as the law states, in the event that the two months of the law which establishes itself to respond to the request, when that answer is the administrative silence, is understood as positive and is brought to justice immediately, and that the lack of staff, the lack of coordination, all those issues that are always excused, because they are not excused, and that those thousands of people who need that help, who can charge it right away. It's equally a cry for the inclusion law that came into force in 2014, because it has to be developed through regulation, which you haven't done either. There's not much justification for that. And so we also want to make an impact on the fight against energy poverty to be effective, and in addition to agreeing with the initiative, what we are proposing in the amendment is to take steps to eradicate energy poverty by creating the Greek electricity tariff. Galicia has a competitive element that is that we produce energy and that we are surplus. So, at the BNG, of course, we don't resign ourselves to the fact that with our resources we can benefit others and that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u61	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u62	...the first ones to benefit are the Greeks and the Greeks. We have calculated that the reduction in not paying those fees would be 30%, and we propose that, in addition to the measures included, that this Greek electric tariff be carried out and that it would have an impact on the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u64	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The AROPE indicator — not the Socialist Party's data — says that in Galicia there are 25.7 % people, of Galician people, who are at risk of social exclusion; it is four points higher than in 2015, another four points higher than in 2014. We are one of the four autonomous communities where the risk of poverty has increased most. And it's not random the result of the socio-work situation of thousands of people. It must be remembered that only one in four people stopped is receiving some kind of benefit. They're fourteen out of every fifteen boys and girls, four out of every five women who are completely unprotected. There are 35,000 homes in Galicia, an increase of 5,000 in the last year, with no income, no wages, no pensions, no allowances. An increase of 17.7% in Galicia, while Spain was decreasing by 7.7%. All of this is linked to the low wages, in particular — which has already been mentioned here — women because, precariously, indeed, they have a woman's name. Well, Galicia is among the four autonomous communities with a lower average wage. This means that there is a 4,8% severe material deprivation situation. Well, we're talking about almost 2% of Galicians and Greeks who can't afford a meat meal, chicken or fish every two days. We're talking about more than 27% of Galicians and Greeks who don't have the capacity to cope with unforeseen expenses. I'm referring to 100,000 homes that can't keep their home at a proper temperature, and it's according to INE data. To 10% of the population that cannot cope with the payment of the receipt of light. Figures that only reflect the reality of everyday living in shelters, food banks and municipalities, where technicians are completely saturated with the avalanche, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, with calls for risk and other kinds of aid. You help, not only for those people who are unemployed, but for that new social class, the policies on the right, the policies that the People's Party has created in this country, the workers and the poor workers. In view of this situation, the lack of effective support measures for people is evident to prevent marginalization and promote inclusion. The lack of effective policies to access social housing for families with low incomes or for those who don't even have it is entirely insufficient. A long bureaucratic processing of Risk, which does not contemplate the new situations of poverty that are taking place and which saturates the staff of the municipalities that should devote themselves to the clearly part of inclusion and prevention, the social part, eliminating the bureaucratic part. The individualized insertion projects that are failing and that make poverty chronicle in Galicia. Well, given this, it becomes necessary to create an income guarantee system, it is necessary to link subsidies to the employment situation and that Risk is a subjective right, establishing guidelines for aid with socio-laborative approaches other than those that have so far been. And, of course, the regulatory development as you commented, Mr. Villares, of the Law 10/2013 which is shameful. But, of course, the most important thing is to shorten this problem from its source is to encourage the creation of stable and quality employment, and especially among those groups that are suffering the most, women, those over 45 years old and those who are long-term unemployed. Therefore, although you may say, Mr. Villares, that the motion is quite generic, I understand, according to what you said before, that it is about reaching a consensus on broad general lines. This initiative contains the major axes of prevention and protection against poverty and social exclusion and fights for equal opportunities, with which the Socialist Group will vote in favour. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Villares, at the last plenary session, you presented your first appeal to the Government of the Union and in your intervention announced that he was going to present his national model for Galicia, specifically in social justice. By listening to your intervention and reviewing your intervention, we realize that you only did it to criticize the policies of the Government of Unity and not to present this famous national project for Galicia in the field of social justice that you announced the bombo y dishillo. Today we are brought to a motion where if we thought that we were going to reflect on what their national project for Galicia was in the field of social justice, but we found ourselves with a motion, with very generic measures, where you don't realize anything at all. And on the other hand, we find ourselves with a motion that shows a total ignorance of the actions being carried out in Galician Union to fight poverty and social exclusion. We have it clear, the Council of Galicia is clear: to fight poverty and social exclusion, what is needed are more resources, commitment from all administrations and more measures. Measures such as the Welsh Strategy of Social Inclusion, which was launched in December 2014, which is a consensus document, agreed with social entities, with Fegamp, with professional schools and social agents. A document with more than 300 measures to combat social exclusion and poverty, with an budget of more than EUR 520 million. Measures and resources. And also, with the new Galician Social Agenda where the Junta, the Fegamp, the Galician Network against Poverty, the social entities, they all made a common front and supported this new Galician Social Agenda with important measures to support the income of people who need it most: measures against energy poverty, measures to address people in a situation of dependence, measures against evictions, measures against child poverty, measures to support the councils so that they have more staff in social services and measures to support the social institutions they are also doing a very important work. Since October 2013, Junta has been counting on a program to combat rejections, since October 2013, with a social lease bonus to facilitate urgent, immediate and timely support for families through help to cope with delays or the costs of their rent. More than 6,000 Greek families receive support from the Galician Union to cope with the payment of their rent, more than 6,000 families. And there's also an empty housing program that has Fegamp's support and we hope you'll talk to many of your party's mayors to join this program as well, and you can mobilize unemployed housing in order to provide them with social rent to those people who need it. As far as Risga is concerned, he is informed that in December 2013 a profound reform of the legislation of the Galician Social Inclusion Act was carried out. A reform that consisted, above all, of adapting Risk to current needs and reality. We're talking about a new integrative risk and you have to know that you're compatible with the incomes obtained by a job. A Risk that wants people to integrate in the workplace. A Risga where a personal itinerary is drawn up for each of the Welsh and Welsh people who earn this income of social inclusion from Galicia; that by 2017 it will have 57.7 million euros, almost 58 million euros when we are talking about that in 2009 22.7 million euros were spent on Risga in Galicia. With a social electric ticket that prevented more than 4,000 families in Galicia from suffering the cuts in supply of compensation. So what we think is timely is that efforts must be made to offer solutions to families with difficulties. Efforts that have already been joined by Fegamp, the General Council of the Judiciary, the People's Valator, the General Council of the Galician Law... and we hope that you and those administrations in which you have before a person of your party, who also add up. Because you see, there's data from the Ministry of the Fairy, of officially poor Greek municipalities in social services, where poor municipalities in social services in Galicia are municipalities governed by the tide and governed by the Galician Nationalist Block. I have the report there, Mr. Villares, if you will, I will ease it through the Presidency of the House. And look, what you can't do is come here without being aware of the measures being taken by the Galician Union and forgetting the measures you are taking in certain municipalities. Because look, please look at it: there are municipalities that are eliminating social services games, social institutions matches, income games for people's help. So you review your social model, there's still much to be done, the Galician Union is doing it with an effort in resources and an effort in measures, but of course with a single objective: to help the people who need it most. Please join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Author group of the motion, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u68	When you tell me, Mr. President. Well, with the open micro we've made the validity of it. Look, let's see... there's the Welsh strategy of social inclusion; we start here to affirm that existence, not to deny it, we start affirming that existence. We came to present a motion from that existence. We broke that. What's up, what did we say? That since that strategy was approved, as man, it hasn't been three months or six, it's been three years and we've seen data here with three years of application of that strategy and, then, we want to know, depending on what happened, whether you can fix what is being done or not you can't fix what you're doing, because just as you're doing is insufficient, just as what you're doing is not enough and what you're doing is not enough to be able to achieve a fair result for people who worse is going through this crisis. Results assessment: severe material poverty — I explained it here and it's not Marea data — 38,000 more people in severe material poverty from 2014 to 2015, already with the plan in force — as well as its plans in force — 38,000 people; 3.5 to 4.8; 3.5 to 4.8. Your result. Social inclusion: law of 2013, lack of regulatory development. I have just read two precepts where the application of the content of the law is subject to regulatory development. So, and considering that three years have passed since the passing of the law and that there was a legal obligation of regulatory development last a maximum of six months that was due on June 30, 2014, it's time for you to comply with the law. It'll be good, won't it? Challenges: says the General Council of the Judiciary, in the report made public this very morning, that the difference in what happens in the state as a whole in the third quarter where 7.5% decreases in the state as a whole, increases in Galicia by 4.5%. That's the success, too, of your anti-refoulement policy, right? That's that. Yes, I know they tell us that they are not broken down and that they have no way of knowing when to banish the people of the houses whether it's from the houses or it's from the plots or it's from summer residences. That must be it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, there are a lot of people who are missing from their summer places in Sanxenxo and Barriers, a lot, a lot of people. We see perfectly how people on their summer floors are continually being defeated. Those are the defiances you're talking about, aren't they? Empty living. Well, how many municipalities are there in Galicia after the mergers? 313, right? 27 municipalities attached. I give by the way that you actually give the other 290 left or about 290 left, they're the Tides, right? Well, it's not for now. It'll be, but it's not for now. So the biggest non-adherents to the empty housing plan are the Town Councils governed by the People's Party because there's only 27 and then somewhere else will have to go. By the way, a plan with 172,000 euros a year, which as an empty housing plan for all of Galicia, the truth is that it's not bad. We insisted on what we said before, we wanted a motion that, because it was the first to be formulated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u70	Yes, I'm done now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u71	And about the amendment, I wanted you to talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u72	And on the amendment, because... we actually understand that it can be an improvement in some of the specific contents, as it can be -- what we also want -- that silence was positive and, therefore, from that place to recognition to provision, we understand that we can accommodate it within the philosophy of the motion. And also, in relation to the Greek electric tariff that goes in relation to the Marea speech, in relation to the energy situation in our country. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u73	Thank you, Mr. Villares. G.P. motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure that no person or family is deprived of their habitual residence in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u74	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. Mr. Sánchez has the floor to formulate the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u75	Well, good morning again. This motion could be and is a continuation of the previous motion, because, as we have already said in the interpellation that we have made to the advisor, it is a more expression of the impoverishment of this society, of the impoverishment of many people in this country and, above all, in recent years. Defeats or the lack of right to housing that many people in this country suffer is not a conjunctural issue. It's not that conjunctural issue of the early years of the bubble explosion, when it was said that there were people who had mortgages above their possibilities. We're eight years later, and the data is kept within intolerable limits. He was talking about a structural issue that has to do with the decline in wages, the instability of employment, the decrease in lower wages, the precariousness of employment, housing policy, the null public and social rental policy in this country. And the data from the 2017 budget project in its memory indicate it. If you see the memory of the Housing and Infrastructure Council, it tells us that 9.1% of the homes in Greece are rented and pay more than 50% of their income for rent. That means almost 100,000 homes that spend more than 50% on rent. And 5.3 % devote more than 50% of their income to paying for a mortgage. I mean, it's almost 160,000 homes that spend more than 50% of their income every month on paying for their housing. And that, according to official data, means citizens who bear a heavy burden in their homes. Of course, within 160,000 people there are very varied cases, but there may be cases that at one time they lose their jobs or that they have no more permanent employment than having a temporary job or hours, etc. And those situations are the ones that cause even rents that don't exceed 300 euros or that are in the 400 euros but that people aren't able to pay, because maybe they live with a Risga and they have two children, like many of the cases we know. And that's not solved with small remedies, with cosmetic measures, that's solved by changing the structural issues that cause this problem. I was talking about data from the third quarter. We're not going to make this a war of numbers. We just have to say that in the third quarter of 2016 there were five releases a day. I'm not even going to insist that Galicia has increased with respect to last year in this quarter. So much the same thing as when we say you're going down about three and a half percent, it's not a symptom that if you're improving this problem, practically because they're intolerable limits, we're not going to get in if you get up about four and a half percent this year. Which means it's 461 releases and the trend is not improving, it's a problem that comes to stay, unless we change policies. And in order to change policies, we'd have to make an honest evaluation of the programs put in place. I don't want to get into the debate. I have said many times that for the PP this was advertising, propaganda and made simply to avoid electoral wear, not because they believe in another model of housing policies — however, we do not enter it — but we will have to make an honest assessment of the operation of those programs that Mrs. Rodríguez Arias said they had started in 2013. And the CEO of the IGVS, in committee, came to say that in these years, since 2013, there have been 233 beneficiaries of the regift program, 233 since 2013. This doesn't cover all the drama that happens; it's since then 9,000 defeats, more than 9,000 defeats; it doesn't cover. And 62 dwellings that had any beneficiary of those dwellings that gave up Abanca, who gave up Sareb, where are those 500 dwellings that gave up Sareb? They're in places that obviously don't serve the end for what they've been sold, the candy and the plate, because otherwise we assume they'd be occupied by people who need it and go to the street. Therefore, without that critical assessment of the mechanisms put in place, there can be no solution. That's why we're surprised and dislike the castrated position of the People's Party defending the indefensible. These housing policies don't work if you intend to guarantee people's right to live in this housing. They do too much ostentation when they take out some show, too much ostentation, and they come against it. How much did they talk about the empty housing census program and it turns out that we're looking at the budgets and it's 200,000 euros a year, 172,000 euros, like it was said here? So much is sold and it is an instrument of 172,000 for the whole country! And it turns out, too, the problem now about the challenges in this country is that in May 2015 the Tides arrived in Santiago, Ferrol and Coruña. It's not very credible this explanation to talk about a drama of defiance that costs five releases a day. I suppose a problem that exists here before 2008 has not been created by the governments of the cities, which were precisely the ones that helped to put, along with the anti-defemination groups, this problem in the public debate, which was invisible. So if there's no self-criticism in the programs, a serious self-criticism in politics, it's impossible to come up with the solution. I probably don't know if there's this will or just the will to hide a problem and let this happen. That's why we propose measures that we believe directly attack structural causes. We believe that there is a social rental public park, a dimension that is consistent with the problem there is, of much greater dimension than what is here, which the advisor recognized in the previous appearance of the interpellation, where he talked about there were 3,000 dwellings; they are insufficient and they are not in the places they need. That's what we see when we have to redeploy someone who's affected by defiance; there's hardly ever a place where we need to live. And you haven't just arrived, you've been in government for eight years, you've been extremely small and you're not where you have to be. We also believe that rents must be regulated in the private market. And there's no need to regulate in the direction of the last regulation, which reduces from five to three years, for example the rental deadlines, you have to give it stability, you have to regulate prices too, you have to get a public interest in housing policy, you have to change the rental law in that sense. We need to study in which we have failed and make a preventive, effective plan against the challenge. We have to spend more budgets and we have to run it better. According to the 2015 General Account, they were left unexecuted and uncompromising 17 million euros. It is one of the games, functions, housing, which is less executed, only in front or behind — depending on how you look at employment, by chance, employment policies, which only 53% are executed. More budget, more budget is needed. Since 2009 it's been cut down a lot, and there's at least to get those levels back, it must be a priority and that's reflected in the budgets, and we have to run better. And why isn't it running well? Because many of these measures are inapplicable, they're not real, all that's advertised is not real, and at the time of truth you can't reallocate people or requirements are too strict so people can access these aids. It is clear that you, when approved, will be willing to execute budget, but not executed, because the measures fail, they are neither realistic nor real. We also ask for more specific questions: the extension of the empty housing census program to the municipalities. Why not only those of more than 10,000 inhabitants, why not those of less than 10,000 inhabitants? And the mandatory intervention of the IGVS in the mobilization of this housing park, in the decree of an empty housing census program, this action is only mandatory and not mandatory. We believe that you have to intervene in this mobilization as well as the IGVS. In short, these are a number of measures that can be complemented even with some of the proposals that you make in your amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block and that we will gladly incorporate, but I think they are measures to give a change to housing policy. So far housing policy has been based on housing as a business and we believe that housing policy must be based on people's right to a decent housing, as the Constitution also says, says the Declaration of Human Rights, etc., etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u76	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u77	Good morning. I will intervene to defend the amendments of the BNG and also, of course, to criticise the housing policy of the People's Party and generally the policies that we can call so-called so-liberal; policies that basically consist of conjunctural measures to alleviate the consequences of a regime that we can only qualify as cruel and unjust, which has led to the police throughout all these years: labour-class income policy, law enforcement, law enforcement, law enforcement, one of the rights precisely the right to housing, which over the years have paid more than 400,000 families and which is leading to the limits of unsustainable inequality in Galicia. The measures that are being applied on the right, the socioliberal measures we can say are palliative measures and that they are partial measures, which are ineffective measures, which have results that we consider to be very poor, and that they are also cosmetic measures to wash the conscience and also to wash the image of the banks in many cases. In addition, since the Government of the People's Party, since the Government of the People's Party, we see that budgets are insufficient, and besides insufficient, they are decreasing, they go at least, and above all they don't even run. We see that there is a very low level of execution of the games dedicated to the promotion of public housing, for example. And in addition to that, we see how there is a mismanagement also in the aids, with an excruciating slowness, for example in the renting aid. Now there are 1,500 families who are waiting for those aids that were convened at the end of 2005, thus causing a very serious prejudice. The BNG, of course, bets on a different model, has an alternative proposal that considers that there is a need to go to the causes, that structural actions must be developed, promoting social justice and equity, and putting people in front of them, rather than banking them. That's why our proposals are going to work for a change of economic model, for a transformation of the housing market. We have in our country 30% of empty housing, which is 30% of the European Union's total empty housing, more than 3.5 million euros throughout the Spanish state and 300,000 empty housing in Galicia; these are clearly unsustainable. We also have a low rate of housing for public protection, and we also think that we need to work seriously on increasing the rent scheme, and of course we have to work seriously on changing the legal framework, amending the Mortgage Law and the Urban Rent Law. As for the proposals made by BNG as amendments to add to the proposal by the Tide Group, we can sum up in three elements. The first is the creation of a public housing park in rent by increasing public protection housing and also the mobilization of empty apartments, especially those in the hands of financial institutions and their real estate subsidiaries. Secondly, the guarantee of basic housing and supplies for people who are at risk; in this way what we want is that both mortgage executions and housing leases guarantee housing or a social rent, at prices that depend on the income of family units. We also call for a paralysing of evictions and evictions while the Galician Joint Administration does not guarantee proper relocation and also prevents basic supply cuts such as electricity, water and heating supplies. And finally, we also propose the creation of a public housing observatory, a Welsh housing observatory, which must be attended by the Administration and social entities, which is dedicated to the study and analysis of the housing situation, and above all of the public housing, which also follows and evaluates public policies and which has, in addition to advisory capacity, control capacity, monitoring and impulse capacity and proposals both legislative and regulatory. We believe that these measures complement and enrich the proposal of the Marea Group and we look forward to the support of the House's groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u78	Thank you, Mr Bará. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Pierres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen. In principle, we are going to support the proposal made by the Group of the European People's Party at Marea, because of the importance of the subject and in coherence with other own support and initiatives which we have tabled both in this plenary and in Commission 2a. There have been several occasions in which issues arising from the problem of rejections have been discussed in this House. However, and knowing the fact that almost 60% of the mortgage executions started on housing correspond to mortgages formed between 2005 and 2008, it may seem that, over the years, the most serious moment of the evictions should have passed. But this is not the case, because the problem remains not only at the present time but in the case of Galicia — these are data from yesterday even provided by the General Council of the Judiciary and previously commented on here — it has worsened in this third quarter even with regard to last year. The number of releases in the Portuguese Community increased by 4,5 % over the same quarter of last year, exactly 461, which means an average of five-six daily evictions. These figures require continued attention from this government and treat it as one of the most serious social problems affecting so many Welsh people. Because we don't forget that, when we talk about defeat, we're talking about not the problem behind a person who's the debtor, who's behind the open court process, but families. So we're talking about the fact that after these 461 defiances, some 1,200 people, parents and children, grandparents and grandparents are hiding. And many of the families, because of the social shame that is supposed to be defeated, resort to earlier disintegration and sharing in homes of relatives, friends or neighbors, giving their children even in adoption, which aggravates and extends further this drama. By analyzing the housing policies of this government, it might seem that the measures taken are many; twelve, or more or less. But the question is, are they effective? The analysis of the objectives and program marked for each year, as well as the budgetary execution of them, clearly tells us that, in fact, they were — and in this we agreed with Mr Sánchez — an absolute failure. We're talking about programs that about access to housing have served 63% of the budget budgeted last year and that since 2009 they have left out of running EUR 133 million of those that were budgeted, money that finally doesn't reach those families who need it, and that's what you're discussing here. Since 2009, there have been 15,000 defiances, 7,000 of them in major housing, and the figures tell us that just over 200 families have been redeployed. In the Aluga programme, of aid to be affected by mortgages, it contains plans for the next year 18 beneficiaries — 18 — with a share of EUR 90,000, well below the 200,000 budgeted last year. These figures are, on the one hand, the low social scope intended for this programme and, on the other hand, the low concern or at least distancement from the real importance of the problem on the part of this government. Because we're not wrong, or rather try not to be wrong: the problem exists. It's not true, as they're trying to make us see, that there were so low numbers of adjudication because those were the numbers of real plaintiffs. The truth is that these are the people who have met the requirements, their requirements, who have left and intentionally leave out so many people who need it, those who make these programs some pure makeup actions of this government. The other day, I was left with an expression from Vivenda's advisor, who invited all opposition groups to look for solutions such as those used by this government. He said, "realistic solutions for real problems." And I wonder, in these days of budget review, if the budget for next year improves as far as realistic measures are concerned. As for the promotion of public housing, for the next year the planned departure is 3 million euros, and with it is marked a target of 104 housing. With that money — allow me to calculate, and by pure professional deformation — housing would be built of 28,000 euros of cost. According to the average construction prices with basic levels of basic quality, it would give rise to 104 dwellings of 40 square meters useful. Is that really the number-quality-dimension offer of the dwellings they want to make available to the Greeks? I understand that neither the real problem nor the solution provided is realistic. I hope that in these days of review of budgets, such matters as these are reflected and revised, and as the advisor also said and I repeat to you now, with a constructive spirit -- I understand it well -- less peak and more pa. For that, working to improve these measures, which is quite clear that they are frankly improved. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Pierres. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Castilian.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning. Mr. Sánchez, ladies and gentlemen of En Marea, we discussed a motion practically the same on April 12, 2016, that is, eight months ago, with little killings that I'm going to try to comment on. You know the first slaughter is that they changed the logo; then it was AGE and now it's a trademark of beer, that is, an M, but from there, a few more. I think he kept it in a drawer Mr. Beiras before he left, because that's the concern you've really had in studying the measures and the data in the drafts since April. And I want to start, Mrs. Pierres, so you just said, because it makes me very funny. You, as in the profession, and I too, know that first, before you do a work, if you buy the land normally -- there are places where not, even without land -- then you do the project, then you ask for the license, that sometimes it is a council where socialists rule it takes more than a year — for example, in Lugo, eh! -- and then the works begin. And I assure you that there are budgets of several buildings to be made in Lugo where today's no land, license or anything, and they've been waiting for years. That's why I'm telling you not to do your calculations in a year, in an exercise, because you know it perfectly, and that's called manipulation. The same thing as manipulating is not saying the exact data of what it establishes and what it says in the General Council of the Judiciary. The title — which is drafted by the General Council of the Judiciary, is not by the People's Party —: "The mortgage executions fall in Galicia by 49.4% in the third quarter of the year." This isn't what PP says, uh, this is hanging on the Judicial Power page. So don't manipulate. And, therefore, the measures that you are taking in Galicia's board, twelve measures, are giving you their fruit, and you have to see evolution. That we would like the descent to say that there is not one single challenge? All right, but of course, unfortunately, that's what there is, and by the way, they say we're at the lowest level of the last few years, coincidentally with the year 2007, in Galicia. And I also want to remind the left-wing gentlemen, because the Mr. BNG said the other day in the 3rd Commission that when the BNG — and I want to read it to tell you exactly what he said, because he called me attention — was decisive in the Government of the State — that is, we spoke there for 2005, 2007, 2008, until 2011 — do you know what the Minister of Vivenda said at that time?: "We'll speed up the waste. We will create in several places, including in Madrid, more than six judges. We will create specific courts for evictions, dedicated exclusively to agitating the wastes of living tenants." Express waste was called, and even super express, approved at the end of 2011, before leaving the Government. Not a single measure was taken to avoid the defeats, not one in that government, and that was when you were decisive; fear gives me! Changes that you put forward in your own initiative. They're talking about a substantial increase in the social housing park. Look, we moved on, because the initiative they presented in April of what they were talking about was to create a housing park, and we already told them that there were 2,800 homes, and now there are more than 3,100, of which they are renting, and with a bonus of 50%. This bonus amounts to more than 3 million euros, to those who must add up to 2.5 million euros in IBI, communities, repair costs, etc., of those housings; 5.5 million euros that are being devoted to that subject. Development of a new prevention application. Exactly the same thing they presented in April, exactly the same thing. There are already twelve, not one, but twelve measures, and what we ask is that they support them. And, of course, you want them to change. I suppose what they're proposing to us, dear fellows and comrades, are the measures they're taking in the governments where they rule, in the places where they rule; that is, a booklet in Santiago was what was brought out in year and a half; agreeing to the creation of an anti-waste commission in the Coruña – for more than a year and yet not constituted –; or a toast to the sun, as in Ferrol, that this is the maximum: "we declare a council free from rejections"; a statement already disappears by themselves. No, real measures, and not going through the 2,100,000 euros they had in the Coruña in social matters, among others, for housing aid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u83	...who would promise to disappear the evictions, not make a change and 1,700,000 devote them to the purchase of bicycles, which are very interesting, but I think it's more interesting to help people who are going through it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Castineira. Author group of the motion, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u85	You should leave more time, Mr. President, Mr. Castineira, because you haven't given him time to make a critical analysis of the results of your policies. It would seem to the people who are here now have just spoken to the representative of a party that supports a government that has just reached the government, but I want to tell them no, that they have been ruling for eight years; therefore, they refer to their April 2016 measures. They took a long time to react, uh, they took a long time to react, it's a lot of thousands of defeats later when you guys took a long time to react. Look, I think it's a lack of respect, rather than talking about this problem, which is a drama for many people who go from their homes, come here to talk about Beiras, the Tides, to blame the Town Hall of Lugo, the Town Hall of Coruña, instead of talking about their responsibilities. It seems to me to be disrespectful. You are ruling this country, you have skills about housing, and I say some responsibility will have in this problem. And if during the period when 9,000 people have been defeated, you've managed to redeploy 233, something will have to come here to say, and with less prepotence, Mr. Castineira. I think it's a disrespect. It's about public housing park. Yes, we present a very similar one with some changes, that's called coherence. I don't know if since April 2016 until now it has changed a lot the situation of the hostages, has it? Whoever manipulates the data is you. Look, the mortgage executions are down by 49%, but the releases are up, by 4.5%, but the releases are up due to a mortgage execution by 18.6%, Mr. Castineira. We are talking about the third trimester of 2016, eight years after you reach the Government, and in this country, in Galicia, five families a day are defeated, five — they are the data of the General Council of the Judiciary. Of course, there are releases, and we will see if this decline in mortgage executions, which seems to be the prelude to lower releases in the future — it seems to be — is confirmed, because also, when we spoke before poverty, of new profiles, what is evident is that mortgage executions — for many reasons, which previously explained the Socialist Party's voicer — can go down,—of course: the force hangs, of course!—but we will see what the behavior of tenants is. So don't anticipate it. What's happening in this quarter is that there's an increase in the pitches, people who've been thrown out of their homes, it's rising, and that's what we have today, we'll see what's next, they've been ruling for eight years. And you were talking about public housing park, 2,800 homes. They agree with the data; he said 3,000, rounding up, the advisor. Do you know how much it means about 600,000 homes in the country? 0,17 % public park. Do you know what level they have in European housing park countries? Almost all over 5%. And that's a fundamental element to balance the housing market, fundamental. What did you do in the Housing Law? What did you do in the Land Law? Reduce all possibilities for a public housing park. And it turns out that, now, a problem that, as was said here, has produced 15,000 defeats since 2009 is a problem for Mareas mayors. Also very serious when it comes to this subject, Mr. Castineira. Didn't anyone else blame him?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u87	You don't rule in this country? I'd also like to say that when GDP grows, it's also due to the arrival of the Tides in May 2015. Eighteen months ruling will also influence the rise of GDP. Yes or no? What are we left with? We are the cause of all evils, but if we arrive at the governments of these cities, it was precisely an alternative speech to theirs. In the face of their corruption, in the face of their contempt for housing as a right, there was a people who did not have funding in B, funding in black, that we did not charge, that we did not receive Vega Sicilia, and with those resources we earned you and we removed them from power. If not, if people were happy with their governments, if there were no evictions, if there was no poverty, if they didn't lower their wages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u88	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez, your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u89	...and if you weren't getting rich in the meantime, you wouldn't win the tides in these cities. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u90	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the central government in relation to unemployment and precarious work
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u91	This motion was presented with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u92	To formulate the motion has the floor to Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u93	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, and I also want to take the opportunity to greet the young men and girls who accompany us in the guest gallery. We are now going to have a debate on a very important issue, we are going to talk about employment. In the debate of the interlocution — which was the result of this motion — the Councillor said that the Socialist Group had a fatalistic position and had a tendency to go along the path of dialogue and consensus. They gave us exactly a hundred days for this, the same ones as we told him we wouldn't give him grace — so to speak — because there was a continuity of his policies as well as of the person who led this department. Well, we won't have to wait a hundred days. Two weeks later, a motion from the Socialist Group comes to the full where we are going to hold hands to all groups of this House to reach an agreement — and let me humbly say, ladies and gentlemen — that we consider it very important to improve the working conditions of thousands of people in this country and to promote employability. We hope the People's Group will join these thousands of people who are suffering from it, just as it has solidarity this past week with the improvement of the working conditions of the President of the Galician Union, an increase of more than 7% of the president's salary while the Greeks and the Greeks have the fourth lowest average salary in all of Spain. Now, whether we talk about whether or not we should lay down our duties to the children and to the children or not, we, from the Socialist Group, believe that, in addition to controlling the work the Government is doing, we have to lay down our duties to it as well. Duties are on two channels. First of all, in those powers which are transferred to the Autonomous Community. And, as you know, as there are a lot of competences that continue at the state level in employment, as well as to urge the Government of Spain to make a change. We must urge the Government of Spain so President Feijóo can do what he likes so much, to act as a militant in Galicia, and to get to Madrid to defend the rights of the Greeks and the Greeks. The latest unemployment data in Galicia are again worrying. There's a worse evolution than that of the rest of the state. Unemployment in this community has increased by 2.32%, four times more than the state average. It is the second largest rise of the entire state in absolute terms, memberships to Social Security fell twice as much as in the rest of the state. It is therefore urgent for the Government of Galicia to take action in this regard. We propose the recruitment of at least 10,000 people a year with a duration of three years, so that the indefinite nature of these contracts will be awarded. And while this government is trying to invisibility the thousands of young people who are outside our borders, it is necessary to put in place a talent return plan aimed at promoting the return of all those emigrants in recent years; emigrants to approach business or research projects, with a budget allocation of at least EUR 10 million annually for the granting of credits to zero and long-term interest. Given that expenditure on employment policies was reduced by 42.7 % in relation to 2009, that the Union has reduced its funds by 45.1 % — i.e., it has invested 88 million less in active employment policies — from the Socialist Group we believe that it is necessary to increase this budget until it reaches the level of 2009. This government must also show its militancy with Galicia — from which they are always bragging, and we think that to cover up or hide the popular party's militancy, from which they should not feel too proud — to ask the Government of Spain to increase resources for active employment policies until they reach those that were received in 2011 when Mr Zapatero was ruling, that there is a decrease of 110 million euros. Besides long-term unemployed and young people and girls — we always say it and we'll keep repeating it — precariousness and inequality, ladies and gentlemen, has a name and a woman's face in this country. We're on worse-paid branches than men's, part-time job trapped. And they would need the year to have 460 days to charge the same as a man. I mean, the Galicians, compared to men, are working for free from September 28 to December 31 of this year. So we're asking for a wage equality law, which we think is necessary. And I am leaving to the end as we consider it more important from the Socialist Group, as it has caused a recurrent unemployment, which has generated levels of precariousness, exploitation and unprecedented labour poverty in this country. And I'm talking about the work reform that the People's Party Government has put in place. We must derogate the most harmful aspects of it, we must agree on a new status of workers, which dates back to 1980 and which is not adapted to the new labour market; a statute which should also amend the redundancies to approximate those relating to the termination of the interim contracts with those of the indefinite, something which has already requested in this House in the previous plenary of the Socialist Group with the spokesperson for public service, Díaz Villoslada, my colleague. Something that, of course, the majority group of this House refused. And, of course, when one heard the Minister of Employment yesterday, Mrs. Fatima Báñez, talking about conciliation and talking about the need to get out of the jobs at 6 p.m. because the first thing she thought was that she had a total and absolute ignorance of what the labour market is in this country and what the socio-work situation of thousands of people is. Because, how do you think you're talking about setting up this measure when you create a job reform that makes employment precarious, that favors layoffs and makes thousands of people who are covering these redundancies jobs often without any kind of pay in the overtime! How do you understand when a job reform is set in motion that completely undermines collective bargaining? We must urgently derogate this rule from the current unilateral capacity of employers to set labour conditions and the prevalence of business agreements over the sector, and ensure that part-time recruitment is not that hole where precariousness and exploitation is contained, to end employment regulation records in profit-free public and private entities and, of course, to put an end to a rule that violates a fundamental right such as trade union freedom, which, in conjunction with the law, bites, protects and protects the violation of the right to strike that has occurred during the last legislation. We, therefore, from the Socialist Group request the support of this motion to begin walking towards a model that bets on stability and quality in employment, a model that bets on drawing out — I mean, from poverty to thousands of poor workers whose wages are not enough to end the month, but often does not even start. And we do — and it's a pity the Employment Counsellor is not present — as he suggested. Today we do it by hearing all the groups of this House, waiting — as I said at the beginning of my speech — for the majority group of this House to show sensitivity for what is happening out there. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u95	It turns out that in Galicia there are still thousands of people immersed in the drama of unemployment, precarious employment, underemployment, jobs that do not allow them to leave the poor, emigration. And despite the official speech, which I referred to in my previous speech, that the crisis has already ended, and in spite of that effort of the People's Party to impose a positive report, the reality is that the situation is a loss of social rights, an emergency situation, a situation that leads thousands of people to accept any employment in any situation for any salary. And that seems to be better than nothing, that's the official speech. In view of this situation on the labour market, the People's Party really wants to entertain us with some ideas. And the reality is that this situation does not happen by chance, it is not a biblical curse and it does not appear overnight, but it is a consequence of measures that have been taken, that have been done by successive governments. Despite the generalized observation that the causes of the crisis were in the explosion of the financial bubble, it was refocused on the fact that the solution went through labour reforms based on flexibility, on the precariousness of even more of the labor relations. This precaution of the labour market responds to a perfectly planned ideological design, designed perfectly in power centres, in the real centres of economic power, and then carried out in a very efficient way by the Spanish Government and the Government of the People's Party in the Galician Union, the labor reforms and legislative changes that allow us to have that labour market. That's why today's BNG is very clear that the alternative to this situation goes through a radical model change in the totally opposite direction. And that radical model change has to go through the derogation of all that legislation that allows that existence of a labour market where the handkerchief has the strongest part of the relationship, which is the business part, which has been precisely taken to make that so. So we have to go in the opposite direction, and the first step is the derogation from that regulation to then go to the construction of another workers' status, another work model based on different premises. That's why we tabled an amendment focusing on the situation in labour reforms. And that's why the amendment of the BNG demands that a whole series of measures be put in place to reverse the consequences of years of work deregulation supported by successive labour reforms that gave letters of nature to precariousness, to working time, to expulsion from the labour market of thousands of Greeks and Greeks, to mass emigration — especially of boys and girls — which translates into poverty and social exclusion. And we immediately propose the derogation of the labour reforms initiated in 2010, followed in 2011, until 2012 and 2013. We put here a number of measures to derogate, and they could complement each other even more. Because these successive working counter-reforms carried out by the Spanish governments of the Socialist Party and after the People's Party were precisely seeking not to improve the working conditions of workers and workers, but to create that unregulated labour market. We're talking about a continuous, premeditated calculation of the dismantling of that right of work to the benefit of that strongest part in labor relations. Some labor reforms that individualized and deregulated these labor relationships, facilitated and disrupted dismissal both collectively and individually, generalized the part-time contract, facilitated companies' failure to comply with agreements, weakened collective bargaining through their atomization, and through stateization and recentralisation broke the principle of equality of the parties by leaving behind the employer's decisions on dismissal processes and collective changes without agreement, facilitated substantial modification of working conditions and irregular distribution of the days, legalized private placement agencies, facilitated procurement for the benefit of employers. In addition, the social protection system has also been seriously compromised and unemployment protection has suffered significant cuts.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u96	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u97	And in that deprotection, Galicia was once again one of the worst stops in the pension system... well, because a whole series of reforms that were aimed at having a precautioned reserve army, submission and willingness to accept any situation at any price. That's why we propose the derogation of all of them. And at the same time, what we demand is the increase in the minimum interprofessional wage to 60% of the average wage. Because we're talking right now that there's a job poverty situation, we're talking about the situation that having a job doesn't mean getting out of the poor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u99	We're talking about a situation that makes it necessary for legislative measures to be taken in the direction of protecting the working class.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u101	That is why we are going to vote in favour of this initiative, whether the amendments are taken into account or not. But we believe that the amendments we tabled will improve the text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Lago.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u103	Good morning to all and to all. My group wants to support the motion put forward by the Socialist Party because it proposes measures that go against job insecurity and the cuts in employment policies that we share, even though we think, fellows and colleagues, that need to go further because it is not enough to repeal the perverse labour reform of the People's Party of 2012, but rather all the rules that have prejudged and unprotected people who have been employed for decades. We have to finish with a good part of the 52 labour reforms of different entities with a goal, which is to recompose a legal framework that makes employment stable and with rights the collapse of the model of labour relations and the change of production model; 52 labour reforms in thirty-one years with a goal: to prevent the labour market. And there I have no choice but to congratulate and acknowledge him to the People's Party, because he did. Half the working class, Mr. Puy, half the working class in Galicia!, it's precarious. The Galician labour market is made up of 837,900 people who work as employees, but also for the 207,000 unemployed people who look for jobs on a separate basis and don't find it, it's 1,04,000. Well, half, 49.5% are in work precarious condition. The first precarious job, the most perverse, is to be unemployed. Because unemployed people participate in the labour market, because most of them travel between unemployment and precarious work, combining contracts and unemployment throughout the year. The second line of precariousness is temporary recruitment, 229,600 people have a fixed-term contract. But there's no end to precariousness here. It's also precarious for the 8,100 people who are made discontinuous, who have an indefinite contract but work part of the year. But it's also precarious and precarious for 66,000 people who have an indefinite contract work part-time — not desired and for hours. If we add the 207,000 unemployed people, the 230,000 who have temporary contracts, the 8,000 who are fixed off, and the 66,000 who work for hours unintended, we have 511,000 employed in this country suffer from the different formulas of precariousness, which I'm going to say: unemployment, temporality, partiality and discontinuity. It's a precaution that affects half the working class in Galicia, and the cuts in employment policies are complicating. Unemployment — everyone says it — is the main labour, economic, social and personnel problem in Galicia, and it had to be the priority of the Government. And priorities are expressed in budgets. And here's exactly the opposite, because spending on employment policies from 2009 to 2017, in function 32 — promotion of employment — has a lower allocation of 179 million euros, 52% less. We have 45,000 unemployed more than in 2009, 45,000 unemployed more than when he began to rule the Feijó Nuñez, and we have 52% less resources to care for those unemployed. That explains some of the problems we have. The crisis, the management of the Union, the cuts in employment policies, are divided, in responsibility, into a very serious fact, and would call on the Members of the People's Party to understand it at once. The number of unemployed people in Galicia from 2009 to 2016 has grown 6 times higher in Galicia than in the average state. That theory that we don't have a problem with unemployment, that our situation is better... I'm going to say with another figure so that they understand it well: from the third trimester of the year 2009 to the third trimester of the year 2016, the number of unemployed in Galicia has grown by 28%; and by the average of the state by 5%. So unemployment increased here 6 times more than in the average state — EPA, INE, accommodable data. This is the working reality of our country, which the Government does not want to recognize, but which is felt by a vast majority of society; a social majority that on the 15th of this month, on Thursday, will travel through the streets of Galicia convened by the unions, by Labour Commissions and UXT, demanding that, if that's true, the Government says that the crisis and recession is over, it's time to return the rights. I finish by saying that En Marea will be present and will participate in that fair trade union claim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u104	Thank you, Mr. Lago. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. The fact is that listening to the Socialist Party gives lessons on employment policies gives rise to a certain shock. I suppose they want to erase the story, they want to erase their story, because they know and are fully aware that citizens recognize you as the biggest unemployed factory that ever had our country: 2,700,000 Spaniards lost their jobs during Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's government, 2,700,000. That was the balance of that socialist government that put us in the crisis, that then denied the crisis and that then finally had to recognize the crisis when the thing was impossible to cover. Therefore, this initiative can only be part of that political cynicism line of those who create such a serious problem as unemployment in our country and who now criticizes those who have put up solutions where you have left problems. Now that we're going in the right direction, you're going to give lessons, saying what to do what you haven't done, but you're going to give the solutions because now you know what to do. Because if we hadn't gotten into the crisis we were in, if we hadn't left 2,700,000 in this country, we wouldn't be in that situation today. And, look, you found Spain with 2,200,000 unemployed and left the country with 5 million unemployed. I'm talking about Spain because you're talking about employment reform, so I'm talking about Spain. You want us to talk about Galicia? We have indeed taken three consecutive years of uninterrupted growth in employment. Here in Galicia the predictions tell us that the horizon is clear and that new possibilities are opened. Year 2016: We closed this year with an economy growing to 3.3%, and by 2017 forecasts put us at 2.5% GDP growth. That's the situation. When you ruled, that wasn't the situation. Look, we have nearly 80,000 unemployed less than when the previous legislation began, 80,000 unemployed less; 2 out of every 3 employees in Galicia are undefined and have a full-time contract; households with all their active members have grown by 3% in the last year. You come here to demand active employment measures when the Board already has a roadmap. Yesterday we met the budgets of the Economic, Employment and Industry Council for next year, which grew by 8.5% when the Board's accounts grew by 2.9%. That's betting on the job, that's proving where to prove it, which is in the budgets. And you come here to teach lessons. By the way, you were talking about the president's salary. I have to tell you that the president of the board in 2017 will charge 15% less than Emilio Pérez Touriño. Therefore, lessons from the Socialist Party... better not give them. Look, the last year that socialists had the responsibility to rule Galicia in 2009, unemployment grew in Galicia by 51,000 people. And you're coming to bother us that in our last year unemployment falls in Galicia in 20,000 people. With you, the reason was 50,000 more unemployed every year, and with us, the reason for unemployment here in Galicia is 20,000 unemployed less each year. You're talking about work reform. Man, it's funny! Look, references to labour reform are also an exercise of political cynicism not only of the Socialist Party, of all groups. They know there's a dialogue table between the Ministry of Employment and social workers to see that job reform can be improved, but you're proposing the derogation, the derogation from work reform. He forgot his own, he had to remind her of En Marea's voice. You forget the last one, yours, that went along the same line, that's what you forget. You come here today to ask for the derogation from the labour reform which allowed you to create 500,000 jobs last year in Spain and 500,000 more than before. That's what allowed the job reform. I'm sure they want to ban a job reform that has benefited not only you, all the parties in the House, all the groups. Look, "The Block" — that's news from the press, it's hemerotheca — "will eventually make an ERE to reduce its staff by approving and using labour reform." "Sánchez" — Peter Sánchez, who was his referee now, or yes, I don't know — used the PP's job reform to fire, twenty days ago, PSOE workers. Fuck! Mr Lago, "Working committees rely on labour reform to implement an ERE in a foundation for training". Well, there's for everyone. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You speak of Kichi, mayor of Cadiz, of Podemos, of his party: "Kichi applies the labour reform of the PP to cast a worker"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, you are now requesting a derogation from a job reform that you have used whenever you have an opportunity to do so. That, Mrs. Noela Blanco, is called political cynicism, very clear political cynicism, without a doubt. Look, we never said everything was done, much remains to be done yet. A lot of people are still unemployed. We have a marked roadmap and we're going to keep working...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u108	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u109	...so that in 2017 unemployment will be reduced again in Galicia 20,000 unemployed less by the end of next year. We're going to continue working, you're still committed to political cynicism, to demagogy, but, yes, they don't criticize, they don't ask for the derogation from the work reform they're using. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u110	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Motion author group. Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u111	Thank you very much, President. "We're going to finish unemployment in 45 days," "Bañez promises to create 180,000 jobs in Galicia" and so we could continue with Mr. Arenas' millions of jobs. I don't know if I can believe the 80,000 that you promised Galicia the Counselor or the 80,000 that you promised Mrs. Fatima Bañez in March to the province of Ourense. That's cynicism and that's political hypocrisy and demagogy. It's laughing and lying, Mr. Tellado, that's what it is. [[Applause]] But, look, you want to keep talking about the two-party government and we don't have any problems. Look, there are 155,750 people employed less in the third quarter of 2016 than in the third quarter of 2008. That's the inheritance of Mr. Feijóo's government, that's the inheritance of his government, of what you're supporting. The number of employers has decreased since the third quarter of 2008 by 30.4%. It is your inheritance, Mr. Tellado, that of the governments of the People's Party. And by the way, I'm not surprised that the government-supporting group is not going to support a wage equality law, because this weekend I've been really embarrassed to read in a media like the president of the Galician board is not able to respect women's freedom to decide about our own body. A person who is capable of criminalizing abortion, a maximum political responsibility who is capable of blaming women and who says that the decision is a couple's decision and not a woman's decision. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u112	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u113	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we quit, we decided. We've been telling you for decades, we've been telling you for decades! [[Strong murmurers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u114	That's the point, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u115	And they still don't understand it, they still don't understand it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u116	That's the point, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u117	With regard to the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block, we are not going to support it. I'm sorry, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u118	Quiet, quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u119	We are not going to support it because, if we derogate from the reform of the year 2010, we are leaving Mr Aznar's government in force, and I understand that, as his group did not support it in Congress and we do not, the logical thing is that we will come to an understanding among all the left-wing forces in the Congress of Deputies, taking advantage of the fact that there is no roll of the People's Party, so that we can make a reform that really is for quality employment. And look, Mr. Tellado, I've always thought your bronze tone was just to access the People's Party Secretariat, which seems to be giving points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u120	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u121	Then I began to think that I wanted to be a candidate for the Mayor of Ferrol. And lately, as you don't stop talking about Andalusia, I'm beginning to think you want to be a candidate for the People's Party in Andalusia, and I wish you much more luck than the candidate there. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u122	Thank you. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u123	By the way, I can't tell you the name because I, like most of the Andalusians and Andalusians, don't even know it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on these motions. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u125	We begin by voting on the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, at the initiative of Mr Luís Villares, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to social exclusion and poverty. There is an amendment by the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group that has been accepted. We vote. [[Pause.]] Text vote on the G.P. Motion. de En Marea, at the initiative of D. Luis Villares Naveira, on the measures to be taken by Junta de Galicia in relation to social exclusion and poverty. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 21, against, 38; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u126	Mr President, I was asking for the floor to vote on points of motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u127	You may ask because you are the author of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u128	Of course, before the vote, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u129	I'm sorry I hadn't seen him, but, if so, we did vote points.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u130	The amendment proposed by the BNG would go to the first point and, therefore, it would be the first point there, and then the second point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u131	Let's vote first on the amendment of BNG as an amendment to add, and then on the points of his motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u132	That's right.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u133	Well, first of all, we are voting on the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Point 1 vote on the G.P. Motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Luís Villares Naveira, on the measures to be taken by Junta de Galicia in relation to social exclusion and poverty. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 38; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. This point of the motion's transactional text is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u134	This point is rejected, which is the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. Let us now vote on the rest of the points of the motion. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. on the initiative of Mr Luís Villares Naveira, on the measures to be taken by the Council of Galicia in relation to social exclusion and poverty, except the point already voted on. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These points of the motion are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u135	We are now voting on the motion by Mr Anton Sánchez of the En Marea Group on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure that no person or family is deprived of their usual residence in Galicia. The amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group was also accepted. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. de In Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure that no person or family is deprived of their usual residence in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u136	Finally, we voted on the motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mrs Noela Blanco, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece and the demands to be made by the Central Government in relation to unemployment and work insecurity. He said he did not accept the amendment of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made by the central government in relation to unemployment and precarious work. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u137	Now we move on to point 3 of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the development and approval by the Galician Board of Return Plan to encourage the return of young people emigrated, as well as their budget allocation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u138	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u139	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Rodil has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u140	Well, thank you and good morning to all of you. Look, since 2005 they emigrated from Galicia 310,800 people, according to the data published by the Galego Institute of Statistics, a figure that exceeds the number of inhabitants in the city of Vigo. I intentionally picked up the time range that includes the two-party government years to see if we can debate this issue without the People's Party's bench enthusiastically invokes that seven-headed monster that looks like that government, to see if we can achieve it. But also to point out that we are faced with a structural problem, because even in the years of economic expansion, the figures of emigration, especially of youth emigration, are maintained. In fact, in 2007 there were 28,189 exits, of which there were 9,984 people between 24 and 35 years of age. Thus things, during the years of strong economic crisis, and already coincide with the Government of the People's Party, since 2009, the figure of emigration was 207,000 people in just six years; reaching the highest peak in 2011, when there was an exodus of 30,000 people in a single year. Of the people who went out looking for a professional and vital project outside Galicia, almost 5 out of 10 were between 16 and 35 years old, almost half. In this Parliament, I have talked a lot about the demographic crisis that hit our country, but the Government has rarely put its focus on what since the demography points to as the main distinguishing feature of the Greek case. I remember a conversation I had in the form of an interview with the CSIC researcher Dolores Puga, in which I pointed out that the main feature defining the Galician population pyramid is not the aging itself, but the speed at which it is producing in our country. For an idea, twenty years ago the village pyramid of Lugo reflected a greater aging than the current Spanish one. This is due — and I open quotes because they are statements by Dolores Puga— "to high emigration." And it's just that in Galicia we've lost population by two ways, gentlemen. On the one hand, the people who leave, who, as you see, are equivalent to carrying buses to the entire population of Vigo and sending it out along with the children that potentially these people will no longer have in our country. At the heart of emigration is — and only listen to the vital account of who has left the country — the lack of working opportunities along with the precariousness offered by the current labour market, something that has just been spoken of precisely long and held in the last motion. More than 90% of the contracts signed are of a possible nature, which in some cases does not exceed only a couple of hours. The wages, moreover, which are perceived — I don't want a story — according to the report published by the Galician Agency for the Quality of the University System, of the people entitled in Galicia, 55%, i.e. more than half, cost less than 1,000 euros a month. We're talking about the most well-formed generation in history, but the index of job insertion recorded by the same report places 3 out of every 10 people who don't work or have worked in the last two years after they've finished their qualification. I could put many names and names on these figures, both those of emigration and those of lack of entry into the labour market, thinking only of the people I shared classes with at the university. From the Galego Nationalist Block today we bring here an initiative that they know and which, far from what the president of the board wanted to understand in the session and in the investment debate, is not meant to bring back either the daughters or the grandchildren of emigration, but the emigration youth. We propose the adoption of a set of measures aimed at the return of these people who have marched in search of a professional future. But, above all, what we propose is to acquire the commitment of the Union to create the necessary economic and social conditions for them to return; slowly, yes, but without pause. And for that, we have to start today, because this country can't wait any longer. The Plan Returns was conceived as a set of cross-sectional measures that range from a housing fund to rent to facilitate the emancipation of youth to scholarships for the expansion of studies, and bet on innovation by double investment in R & D+i, creating research contracts aimed at recovering the lost researcher and technologist — only since 2009 we have about 20% fewer researchers in the public sector—, facilitating access to credit to entrepreneurship projects and productive tissue through the creation of a public bank in Greece. And they can be calm, ladies and gentlemen, they can breathe, we know that in addition to that of the public bank, they're a little disappointed, but ultimately, what we want is to take advantage of the immense potential that Galicia has for us to develop economically and socially our country, and start by recovering lost human capital in recent years, and that is also added to the thousands of people who left this country during the 1960s and 1970s. It is a plan that must be designed through a process of social dialogue and that must have enough annual investment to carry it out, a figure that we understand should never be less than 1% of the budget of the Union, and convert the problem of emigration, especially that of youth emigration into a priority issue and I would almost dare to say in state policy. Today we ask them for support for an initiative that wants to lay the foundations of Galicia for the future, and in that country for building we need to return to the knowledge of that scattered generation, mine, which remains on the five continents of the world. So we're hoping to count on your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u141	Thank you very much, Madam. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs. Luca Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u142	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, you will excuse me for doing exactly what I shouldn't be doing in this gallery, like using the first person. But I have to admit that this is a special intervention for me for two reasons. First, because it was about emigration on what I was working on until I was elected honourable Member. And secondly, and above all, because just like Olalla I'm part of that generation that especially hit this reality. And, like her, I believe that the lack of expectations in this country is one of the main problems that must concern all of us in this House, like most of the people in this country. We've got too many people out there and it's time for them to come back. So it was also a cause for joy to see that this issue entered the day of the investment debate. That day it seemed that there was a consensus that the demographic consequences of the economic crisis were of concern to us all, so let us hope so too when we vote on this proposal. I've only got five minutes; so I'm going to try to dismantle the myths that usually involve the issue of emigration so that I can focus more on the debate. The first is that of the figures, very important. The truth is we don't know if it's 204,000, 207,000 or 300,000 people who have left since the beginning of the crisis. In both cases they will agree with me that they are too many. Because the most relevant thing is, as you know, that in official data there aren't all of them, because you need to go to a consulate, you can process that in too many cases it's not done for many reasons. Above all, because they're afraid of losing their jobs because they have to go to a consulate in working hours, afraid to lose their rights in our country for policies that you've drawn forward, they're afraid to lose the right to health due to the real decree of health exclusion. Just compare the Spanish statistics with those of the host countries to see that they multiply up to four the numbers that we manage. Of course, it's much easier to assume they're leaving. The second great myth is that of "Galegos for the World" and its account of external mobility. I mean -- you know -- these TV programs that sell a pristine image based on personal success, individual, measured in economic terms that broadcast public television on prime time and that look like emigrants are adventurous to those who expect wonderful things abroad. Unfortunately, quite the contrary, because their lives have much more precariousness, poor wages in McDonald's and shared floors. They speak — when they hear — of the total abandonment by the Administration, of the burden they feel they have to pay for the consequences of a crisis they have not caused. And — I have to say — they are people who really feel insulted when they underestimate this problem and when the Minister of Employment talks about external mobility. And so they're not only throwing balloons out, they're distorting reality by treating emigration as a purely individual decision and not as what it is, a social consequence of the problem we're living because of their painful management of the financial crisis, which above you comes out of wonder, since it's a great way to lower unemployment figures. If they're out, they don't count anymore, and yet they have the honor of having, as we said, the worst evolution of employment across the state. There is a phrase that is very much heard in emigration, which Mr. Feijóo probably heard when he had to abort events in emigration, as he spent a couple of years in London for the shells, which said that the basic idea we should reflect on is, "We're not going, they're throwing us away." Well, there's no responsibility on this for the government. And the third big myth is the alarm that the most educated people go. Here I want to stop. Because yes, there are people who have higher education, but there are people who have middle and primary education, and even without them. It is true that we need to regain the extravagant talent, of course it is unacceptable that thousands of people formed with the money of all the Greeks and Greeks are providing foreign universities. But we want to draw attention to a speech that in our opinion is certainly elite because it gives the alarming voice on which the supposedly better ones march, based on, with the better ones, on an academic degree. To be alarmed because the most educated people in this country are leaving is not only impossible to justify in statistical terms, but, from our point of view, it is unfair. That's why we don't agree with what the Socialist Party lady once said. We need not only a scientific return plan but a more ambitious plan to make it easier for the thousands of people who marched in the period of economic crisis. Because they have the right to live and work here and because, above all, they suppose an unacceptable loss to this country. It is true that there is no better return policy than job creation, and quality, and the people who have given them a country to go back to, and not a country that is poorer and unequal, which is what you leave them. But in the meantime, in our hands it is shown that the abstract concern about the situation materializes into specific policies. It's urgent to guarantee their rights as citizens regardless of where they live, so from the tide we will vote on the non-law proposal of the BNG and we present an amendment to addendum that seems to us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u143	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u144	...which helps to profile the issue further, in which we urge the Galician Council to take necessary measures to remove obstacles that hinder the returnees of access to existing employment grants and social benefits, so that all their social rights can be restored without a minimum period of residence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u145	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u147	For the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, you have the word Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, have on several occasions already expressed to the Greek Government our concern about a situation of the current youth, the situation of the young people who have gone away and of the young men and women who are still leaving their country, Galicia, to look for a future that they cannot find here. Today we have several novice figures, they've pointed to it before. One of them is "outside mobility," that is, what all of us, except for the People's Party, understand by emigration, emigration, just like the emigration they had to suffer from our grandparents, our countries, who came from a post-war period, who had to raise a broken country and walk away with nothing, who had nothing and had to look for a future. Galicia was then exported by unskilled labour force. Today Galicia is an exporter of skilled and highly qualified labour, taking into account, as the representative of En Marea pointed out earlier, that there are also other boys and girls who have less qualifications. But I'm going to focus, above all, on the most qualified. Today we are exporters of that labour force, which remains a migratory movement, even though the People's Party denies it over and over again. Thursdays are the most important potential of a country, they are the future, without youth there is no future. And training aims to train students to acquire knowledge that enables them to enter the labour market. Training our youth has a cost, it's an investment in which the state and the families participate. The annual student-investment in the Greek universities is average, according to a report by the CyD Foundation, of 6,762 euros. If we think that each student is going, at best, five years, we are talking about an amount of EUR 33,810 per qualification, without taking into account scholarships or other government expenditure. That is to say, with everyone's tax and everyone's tax, an average of EUR 33.810 is invested in training each of the colleges and the colleges of Greece. This amount must be added to the investment of families: transfers, housing and others. And I'm no longer going into the emotional part, the emotional pride of parents to see their trained children and the frustration of young people and girls because they don't see an exit worthy of all their effort. You're advertising the bomb and dish that you're good managers. A company that manages well-investment to then get profitability of that investment, that's good management. But no, in Galicia it invests in human capital so that that investment has its profitability outside our borders. It increases the competitiveness of the countries that move our youth, and so that competitiveness, in the same countries, competes directly with that of your country, Galicia. Hard, very hard to understand. How can we present a strategic plan for Galicia if we do not solve one of the most important and serious problems we have, if we do not consider our potential, if there can be no strategies without the future and there can be no strategies without youth! The young population to stay, to continue on their land, to produce here, needs stable work, a decent job, not to be a poor working class. I remind you that Galicia has as its average salary the third lowest in all Spain, according to the data published by the INE. They also need affordable housing, and they need a real reconciliation policy, not Finnish boxes. So if, so our youth, our greatest value, will stay here mostly, will produce here, they will have their children and their daughters, and so we will be able to grow a country by investing and growing up, by feedback. That's a healthy growth, not the propaganda that you put at your power point. In eight years the policies of the People's Party have devoted nothing, no measure, to allay this difficult situation. And the state's measures have only been used to cut their health rights. So, the boys, at three months of leaving, lose us, and then you have to ask them again once they return. They nullify their political rights by effectively preventing them from exercising their right to vote, and by emigration people aged 16 to 35 also help to make unemployment figures in Galicia and increase the aging of our country. I'm going to give you some data from the IGE so you don't try to dismiss my argument.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u149	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u150	Yes. The population between 15 and 34 years of age in 2009 was 701,699. The population of 16 to 35 years in 2016 is 524,638. So we have a difference of 177,061 boys and girls less in Galicia in just seven years. And today our population is 24.33% older than 65 and 15.76% older than 0-19.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u151	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u152	We, in our electoral programme -- yes, I'm finished now -- had already contemplated measures to combat this phenomenon; therefore our vote will be favourable. We have already planned to encourage the recruitment of at least 10,000 people a year with a duration of three years, so that the indefinite nature of contracts is gained, and to put in place a talent return plan to facilitate the return of emigrants and girls to address business or research projects in Galicia. Thank you all very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u153	Thank you very much, Madam. You have the floor by the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Miguel Ángel Tellado Filgueira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u154	Thank you, Mr. President. We must pay tribute to the Galician Nationalist Block. The Plan Back was his star proposal in this election campaign, the first initiative that would bring to this Galician Parliament at the beginning of this legislation. But the truth is that the originality of this initiative is questionable because it is a proposal that is copied, it is a proposal that is copied from La Junta de Andalucía, which has this program launched precisely since March 2015. Who would tell the BNG, the nationalism of a historical community like Galicia, that he would have to copy proposals from the folk regionalism of Mrs. Susana Díaz in Andalusia! [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I do want to talk about specific data, specific data on the question that brings us here. According to residential evaluation statistics — INE —.... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When Mrs. Noela Blanco calms down... Seen, Galicia was in 2015 the autonomous community with the lowest rate of emigration in Spain, the lowest. The exits of Galicia accounted for 1.12% of the total population compared with 2% of the total population of the autonomous communities. Galicia is also the autonomous community from which fewer young people are born in proportion to the population of that age — 16 to 34 years old — and 2.23% compared to 3.31 on average in Spain. 2007 — you governed — was the year the youngest left Galicia: 13,900 compared to 12,117 2015. When you ruled, by the way, they had competences in the field of youth. The balance of migration accumulated since 2009 is still positive. They left Galicia 207,000 people but came to Galicia 225,000; therefore, the balance is positive, 17,500 people entered. According to the Labour Mobility Study, which measures contracts in other autonomous communities, it is not true that in 2015 50,000 workers in Galicia had emigrated, as you said at one time. It's not true, it was exactly half. The years in which there were most Germans hired in other autonomous communities were precisely the years of the Bipartite: 2006, 2007, 2005 and 2008, by that order. Look, Galicia is the second autonomous community with the lowest mobility rate in all of Spain, that's the reality. Do we have a demographic problem in Galicia? Of course, we have a demographic problem. Look, obviously, the opposition doesn't know what the government is doing and doesn't listen or want to hear what the government is doing in this matter. This government acts both in the return of emigrants already rooted in other territories and in the young people who left Galicia during the crisis on labour grounds. This government is already acting in the matter in which you propose. Thus, the Galician Union makes available to return emigrants grants to cover the initial costs of establishing self-employed workers' activities here in Galicia, which can be added to the aid that already exists for entrepreneurs, also in force, put in place by this government, and to which 18 persons were added this year in this circumstance. In addition, Junta also has extraordinary help to cope with the costs of returning to Galicia, over the last five years, which have hosted more than 300 people and with an investment of EUR 500,000. So what you're proposing is already being done. Let me send it back to the DOG. See: "Resolution by the General Secretariat of Emigration on the approval of regulatory bases for the granting of extraordinary aid to returned Greek migrants. Date of publication: 1 March 2016. But these aids are not that we put them in place in 2016, we put them in place in 2012, in 2013, in 2014, in 2015 and in 2016; 500,000 euros, 300 beneficiaries. That's the reality. See, more DOG, a resolution by the General Secretariat of Immigration calling for grants to promote self-employment and entrepreneurial activity, in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, of the returned Welsh people, and proceed to their call for 2016. And it's not that we announced this year, it's that we also did it in 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. Another 500,000 euros and also a good number of beneficiaries. Look, the president of the board also announced, in his investment speech, the launch of a scholarship of excellence for young people abroad, which will be donated with an amount of EUR 500,000 and which has already been announced — as he said — by the president in the investment speech. So a lot of the things you're proposing are already being done. Do we have a demographic problem in Galicia? Of course. Is there a problem in the labour market because there is still work opportunities for people who are unemployed? Of course.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u155	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u156	Do we still have to let the boys who left come back? Of course. But we have dramatized from Andalusia, it's better not. Let's get serious about the issues that are serious. Let's not play with the data to defuse an alarming situation, because that situation was much more alarming when you were ruling, and then what they were doing was spending money on chumps in Cuba. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u157	Thank you. To close the debate, Mrs Olalla Rodil has the floor by the non-legislative parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u158	Look, Mr. Tellado, I'll tell you something. It made me a certain illusion that you answered me, I don't know why, I was so excited! [[Laughter]] Yes, absolutely. I've got to get a little bit of this roll, baby. I don't know. I guess you'll have that point. [[Applause]] I knew, moreover, that I was not thinking about it, that they would not support the proposal, nor would they even leave it as open as simply studying the feasibility of making that Plan back. What I didn't think was that you'd be able to go on how much with the problems and come to let go of me... really, because you gave me some shame all the way to listen to certain statements, and that you were going to travel to Andalusia but I didn't want to go through, for example, through the Roots program, which was an interesting program that set off, for example, with the Government Kirchner in Argentina, to recover all that knowledge, above all, linked to research and personal technologist who had lost Argentina during the 1990s with that dramatic economic crisis. But you're going to look for your referents where it's best for you. What we want to bring here -- and I tried, really, to try it -- to do a collection of data from a space-temporal range that had already covered the two-party government years, trying to see if we were the ones you didn't shake that scare that they cling to in an absolutely paradoxical way for moments, and we tried it to satiety... I think very well the storytelling of measures that you spread out here, which I don't understand then is like all the population you left, that we know, and I'm sure, that you also know, and even how it happens to people who are unemployed, have some family or some friend in immigration who can't return. I don't understand it then, because there are people who have been trying to return to Galicia for many years in emigration, but they can't find a way to opt for a decent job. I tried, moreover, to look at that double-face, or to emphasize that double-face, which has the drama of emigration, which is not unique and exclusively an economic problem, but it is also a demographic problem. I thought you were going to get me the birth aid here, which is the only magic vein they've found to reverse the dramatic situation that we've had with respect to demographics in our country for so many, so many years. It must be remembered that the population pyramid and the vegetative balance in this country have been negative since 1986. But what I didn't expect is that you put yourself in that way, in what way, to clear and deny, because it was an absolutely negationist position of the situation this country is going through, and above all the youth of this country. I could tell you about the promotion of the Faculty of Communication in Pontevedra in 2007-2011, of graduates and graduates in Advertising and Public Relations, which we remain here, and we must be four literally. We are grateful in this respect for the amendment that comes to Marea, what if I wanted to tell companion Luca, is that we were referring to ourselves as one and only to the departure of knowledge referring to the university, but also to all those people who have or have no higher education but who also have a lot to bring to Galicia of the future, that Galicia that we want to build, that we do not deny ourselves in addition to the attempts and blockades by the People's Party to move forward in a completely different Galicia, in a Galicia where we do not have to live in a constant way, as if it were some sort of biblical plague, that we have to march first our grandparents and our country — I say it by life experience — and then also their own daughters. What we wanted with this Return Plan that still has the opportunity to support if they make a minimum reflection, is to lay the groundwork so that socially and economically this country can give their daughters and their children a future, that we don't have to see how generations and entire generations continue to march and grow and produce wealth in other parts of the world, when we have an absolutely rich and absolutely prosperous country to live and work here. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u159	Thank you very much, Madam. Let us now turn to the accumulated debate on non-legislative proposals Nos. 927 and 1272, which are the items on agenda 3.2 and 3.7. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in connection with the processing of the Proposal for an Organic Law on the Transfer of Ownership and Skills of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as well as the rescue of highways with public funds G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr. Antón Sánchez García and Mr. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the demands to be made by the Government to the Central Government in connection with the processing of the Bill passed by Parliament of Galicia concerning the transfer of ownership and management of the AP-9 motorway to the Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u160	To formulate this non-law proposal, you have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Xosé Luís Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u161	Good morning. Castelao said that the legal rules had to be written on paper, and he said so that no hygienic utility would be given; in particular, he said so that he could not clean his ass with them. And we should ask the same for the law that approved the German Parliament on AP-9, because we see that they also gave it a hygienic use in the People's Party and in the Government of the State in Madrid. When we presented this initiative in October we were, of course, very concerned and concerned about the attitude of the Government of the State, which expressed its disagreement with this initiative unanimously adopted by the German Parliament. And now, two months later, not only are we concerned, but we have a feeling of alarm, of shame and, above all, of indignation at the attitude of the State Government, and what is worse, at the position and attitude of the German Government and its President, after the meeting he had with the Minister of Development. An attitude of submission, of vassalage, and an attitude of treason to the agreements of this Parliament and the interests of Galicia. You can't call it any other way after the aggravation, the outrage, which came to announce us here, at the same time as the rescue of the radio highways, of nine broken highways, in the state. The handling of the law passed by the Greek Parliament, which began in October, actually met with the opposition, with the disconformity, of the State Government, and the truth is that it is nothing new, because it is the position that has been repeated over a decade by all Spanish ministers and ministers of Government Development, who have always used, were the same arguments: that it was an infrastructure of international interest, of European interest, of general interest, that communicated the ports and airports and therefore could not be transferred. And at the same time they also added a budgetary argument, because it was going to have economic costs for the public era, so this year 2016 could not be set up in budgets a match for the ransom. Well, it's more than used the argument that you won't have to use any match this year and that there have been self-stretch transfers that have characteristics similar to Welsh to other territories of the state. The history of AP-9 can be said to be the history of a policeman; the history of a policy of economic resources to benefit large companies, many of them foreign capital. I want to remember here that the concessionaire's owner entity in its 45% is an investment fund that has the enlightening corsary name, corsary background. It's no wonder, therefore, that they act in our country, as they come here to rob the resources of our country, of the Greeks and of the Greeks. This is, in addition, the big business of the dealership, which has entered as a net profit 46 million in 2015, and has collected more than 743 million since 1994. And at the same time, a speculative operation is under way to sell this company, for the juicy business you have, for the concession up to 2048, for more than 5,000 million euros. Besides, we're paying the most expensive highway in the whole state, which is exclusive for many people and which is very serious for economic activity in our country. I want to remember here that it's more expensive to travel on the highway between Ferrol and Vigo, which costs 17.65 euros, than making it from Ferrol to Madrid, which costs 16.20 euros. In addition, the longest 75-year concession, which will end in 2048 and which, according to the State accounts, provides — because that is the calculation they made for the rescue — that the concessionary will enter this period of more than EUR 4 billion. Above all this, we have suffered an increase in rates in the last 8 years of 26.5%, and despite these millions of benefits, we see how users suffer deficiencies in the conservation and maintenance of the highway, how staff are reduced, how we are constantly stuck in the fees, and above all, in the Rande stretch and access to Vigo, continuous problems. AP-9 is also the example of an enormous aggravation, an outrage and a mockery of this country and this Parliament, especially for that announcement, which was not made when the Minister of Development came here, it was made yesterday, like the announcement of the works of the AVE in Ourense, not at the meeting with the president before the media in Galicia, but made yesterday, with nighttime, in a state media. Well, the confirmation of the Ministry of the Development of the Rescue of nine motorways, including the rescue of the highways in Madrid, which will have a cost for public buildings of more than 6,000 million euros, in addition to saying the former Minister of Development — Mr Catalá — that would be a good business. Of course, a good business for companies, for the bank, for the builders, who will receive those billions of euros from the public era. That's why there's money, and there's no money to rescue AP-9! This seems to us to be a joke, a scam and a genuine coat of hair, in addition to a betrayal of Galicia and this Parliament. AP-9 is also an example of the contradictions and double morals of the People's Party, because of the lack of decision-making capacity and political influence on issues that are, like this, central and vital to Galicia, because they say something here and they don't care to say anything against Madrid. And the president of the board boasts a lot of political weight, but what we saw was how he accepted in a submissive and helpful manner that none — because he cannot be called otherwise — what the Minister of Development submitted to. So, servant obedience to what they command in Madrid, and now there's no choice but to remove the mask and discover all that real, fake and devious face, with which they act in this and many other subjects. It therefore seems to us that it is a very serious matter, which is a betrayal; and we therefore ask this Parliament to adopt the agreement reached in this non-law proposal of the BNG which says at its first point: "to urge the Central Government and the Ministry of Development to withdraw the inconformity with the proposal for an organic law for the transfer of the ownership and competence of the AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, approved unanimously by this Parliament." Secondly, "to urge all political groups represented in the General Courts to speed up their processing and approve it in accordance with consensus in the Galician Parliament." And thirdly, "reject the multimillionaire rescue of highways, with public funds, in order to save the bank and the builders who manage it." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u162	Thank you very much, Mr Bará. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Anton Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u163	Good morning. We have already discussed AP-9 on countless occasions in this Parliament. We could speak again of the fact that the history of this infrastructure, of AP-9, which runs from north to south of our country, is a history of the capitalism of the Official State Bulletin — and unfortunately we are used to it in this country. We can also say that it is a sample of the comparative aggravations that Galicia is making with regard to the decisions made in other parts of the state; the aggravations of those who are also responsible for rulers such as Mr Feijóo, who has come to boast in the investment speech of being a militant of Galicia, but who shows that it is nothing but a mouthpiece. When choosing to defend Galicia or defend the People's Party, he always chooses to defend the People's Party. Capitalism of the State's Official Bulletin because it keeps that melody that they like the neoliberals who live in the State the most. A lot of talk about the free market, but in the end almost all the big businesses of the people who end up funding the People's Party are related to the things that are approved in the Official State Gazette. And the relationships they have with politicians who make those decisions, something very up-to-date these days. Those things that are done to fatten, those gifts that are done to fatten. You too have the bad luck — I don't know if it's affecting you or not — that today's debate, just after that announcement that if you get caught up in some actions of an infrastructure that is fundamental to Galicia, but instead you're willing to spend more than 5,000 million euros on rescuing the radials that Mr. Florentino Pérez, Sacyr and company did not run, as always, no risk; if it goes wrong there will be the state — they, of course, this business didn't go wrong — for that there is always money. Just like there was money to rescue and clean up with public money before 2003, AP-9. And also the People's Party, through Mr. Álvarez Cascos, privatized her after she was fine and sold her to Sacyr for 1 billion euros, at the price of a friend. And it's a price as a friend because, five years later, Sacyr sold it to the American City group, getting a few surpluses of more than 800 million euros, without spending a euro on improving the infrastructure. What's that called? That's called shameful, that's called corruption, that's called ruling for very particular interests, that's called the usual policy of the People's Party. Of course, Audasa and Itinere have always had very good relations with the People's Party, even counted with Bárcenas on their board of directors. Neither does anyone escape the close relationship of the Muntaner brothers with Mr. Rajoy since he was Minister of Public Administration. When we talk about the People's Party, we have to look at the background. But he said that we are not here to give debates already given on many occasions in this Parliament. Our proposal merely seeks to respect a unanimous agreement by this Parliament, which respects the dignity of this Parliament and the dignity of the Greeks and the Greeks. A unanimous bill was adopted here less than a year ago. He voted for the People's Party, voted for the Socialist Party, voted for the BNG and voted for the AGE unanimously. He moved to the Government of the State, and the Spanish Government, the Government of the People's Party of Mr. Rajoy, the Government in "friend" theory, vetoes the debate. It is not that I am voting against, that it vetoes the debate in a lying, overpowering and manipulative way — lying, and I will explain why. In view of this, we think that, in view of this veto, the same ones that we support here the bill would be together at least defending the right that is democratically debated in the Congress of Deputies. But we saw as unilaterally, without exercising as President of Galicia, Mr Feijóo lowered his head before the Minister for Development. Or he fell off the horse on the way to Damascus, as was said before, with the AVE, with the AP-9, with the boxes. Too many times. Again, Mr. Feijóo showed the face to be strong with the weak and weak and submissive to the strong. He contrasts this submission to Rajoy with the pre-eminence he employs here, in domestic matters, to speak of mayors and deputies who are not of his own colour. We'd like you to have that firmness you've got when you think of Catalonia, making an arian for the People's Party. And we tell Mr. Feijóo that the problem here is not Catalonia or The Tide, it is the PP, the rescue of the radials and his refusal to act as president of this country. And that deals with this initiative, it's simple: to demand that the veto be lifted, the blockade imposed with lies, manipulations and comparative aggravations. We call for this Parliament to be expressed again in the same way as it was expressed less than a year ago; for the dignity of this Parliament to be defended, for the dignity of this people. Moreover, knowing that the arguments used by the Government of the People's Party in Madrid are lies. They spoke in the report of a rescue cost of 4,300 million euros: it's a lie, it's a gross manipulation. The calculation for these 4,300 million euros is the result of multiplying what has been collected from fees in the last year for the years that are left for concession; anyone knows that this is a lie. But it is more, in the additional third provision of this law it is said that in case the ransom was decided, the ransom would be in charge of the State; it is, of course, a condition that is not given for the year 2017. The law is not about redemption, the law essentially goes about overstepping AP-9's competences, and they hold onto this lie to block the debate. The comparative aggravation to see how we are told that we cannot debate because it is a network of European interest, a structural network that connects with Portugal, when we all know that, during successive governments, they have transferred to Catalonia and to Euskadi motorways that go directly to the border. This one doesn't even go directly, it's a comparative aggravating. These cases show the falsity of the central arguments of the Spanish Government to ban the debate of a law approved unanimously in this country. We can't afford this. And he does it in one way, once again, as a cheater, because he knows he doesn't have a majority in the Congress of Deputies and he risks democratically approving the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia. We therefore demand that they act honestly, defending the interests of the people of Greece; that they support an initiative that simply demands that democratic rights be guaranteed for Galicia; that they be on the side of Galicia and not on the side of the People's Party. Not to mention what the German Members and Members of the People's Party should do, and not as they systematically do, to vote here one thing and the other, which shame should give them! And we demand, moreover, that Mr Feijóo manifest himself clearly and roundly in this matter. Don't be like the visit of Mr. Minister of Development, who once again wants to apply the discounts to the train in Galicia. Mr. Íñigo de la Serna wants discounts for our train, it seems he doesn't remember what happened in this country on the way from Santiago to Ourense because of the discounts. Here by train and rail we don't want any further downsides, and we want a president of the Union and a People's Group who defends Galicia's interests and who doesn't hide your head against the government of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The Socialist Group of Galicia has the word Raúl Fernández Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Good morning, Counselor, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate in Galicia on AP-9 should be over. For several legislations — with more intensity in the last one — parliamentary groups value the role of AP-9 in the Galician road network and recognize its importance for Galicia and the added value that can bring us with direct management of the Galician Union. This shared recognition culminated at the end of the past legislation with the approval by the Greek Parliament of the proposal for organic law on the transfer of ownership and competences from AP-9 to Galician Union, at the initiative of the Galician Nationalist Bloc Group. The adoption was unanimous, it was approved by all parliamentary groups represented in Parliament: Groupe Mixto, Alternative Left Gallega, Nationalist Blocke Galego, Socialist Party of Galicia and People's Party. It was voted on by the 75 Members of the House, and by the way, Mr President, Mr Feijóo. With this decision, the AP-9 debate should be over, but it doesn't seem like it; in the last few weeks and days it's revived. In this new scenario, from the Socialist Group, we want to show — as we have done this week in the presence of the Counsellor in the 3rd Commission — our perplexity to the news broadcast by the media on the results of the meeting held between the President of Galicia, Mr Feijóo, and the Minister for Development. If they are true — and they have not been clarified or denied — they bring to the Socialist Group the nominee of treason, even to Parliament and to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Mr Feijóo's public demonstrations and commitments — Mr President — over the past year, the unanimous support of this House to the initiative and the advantages and benefits for the Greeks and the Greeks we all recognize, do not allow us to assume, or would be acceptable, the defence of a position different from that which is unanimously supported in this House, because there is no reason for general interest in Galicia to be able to change the agreement. As there are no legal or technical reasons or economic reasons in the unfavourable report on the proposal for an organic law on the transfer of the title and competence of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia drawn up by the Ministry of Development. There are no legal or technical reasons for refusal: AP-9 runs entirely through the territory of Galicia; AP-9 does not directly connect either with Portugal or with autonomous neighbouring communities such as Asturias and Castile-Leon. AP-9 does not connect directly with the ports of general interest located in Galicia: Ferrol-San Cibrao, La Coruña, Vigo, Vilagarcia de Arousa, Pontevedra-Marín. AP-9 does not connect directly to Alvedro, Lavacolla and Peinador airports either. The transfer from AP-9 to Galicia does not prevent it from being integrated into the Trans-European Transport Network, no matter what road status it owns. So I wouldn't prevent it in any case, as has happened, in addition, with examples such as the transfers of highways to the Basque Country of A-8, or the Catalonia of A-17 and A-19. There are therefore no legal or technical reasons, nor are there any economic reasons for refusing the debate of the bill in Congress itself. The same Ministry of Development, I read textually: "There are no budget appropriations from the Ministry of Development for the year 2016 that allow the payment to be paid encrypted in more than 4,300 million euros." It seems obvious at this time, in mid-December 2016, that the appropriations in the 2016 budget have no meaning whatsoever. But it also seems obvious that the calculation made about the ransom cost is so simplistic, it's the raise, it deserves little credibility and it's absolutely questionable. The mouthpiece of En Marea has also explained it. So the question is very simple: if there are no legal reasons, no technical reasons, no economic reasons for the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia, what hidden reasons is there for the Government of Spain to deny even the transfer debate? Let's remember that the transfer of AP-9 and AVE, and the access of AVE in 2018 to Galicia, were Mr Feijó's most important commitments in precipitate and campaign. The huge media coverage, the negative of the AP-9 transfer and the rejection that AVE's access to Galicia will be completed in 2018 is a clear and round negative to Mr. Feijóo from Madrid. Perhaps his attitude—in precampagna he went from being militant of the People's Party in Madrid to the Galician militant—, trying to avoid the Madrid People's Party in Galicia permanently, passed the elections and achieved the goal, he intends to solve that cautious suspension of militancy in Madrid, returning to Madrid; perhaps his attitude as "camerachachetes"—which we understand very well in Galicia what it means to militant of the PP, militant of Galicia, militant of the PP...—is going to pass his bill. I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons are more in Genoa than in the Ministry and they respond to an account adjustment and a power struggle...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u166	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u167	...with the People's Party. The unfortunate thing is that the losers are once again the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Mr Fernández Prado has the floor by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u169	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The Union and the People's Party that supports the action of the Government of Greece have been defending for years — and, in particular, since 2009 — that the best for our community is the transfer of the ownership of the AP-9 motorway to Galicia. And, the difference between others, Bloc and PSOE, we maintain the same position regardless of whether we're in the government or in the opposition. The other day we remembered in this same Parliament as you did in 2007, when they were ruling, they had different positions they have now. We can say that from the beginning we have always held the same position. This highway that's vertebrating all of Galicia, all of the Atlantic Galicia, where two of the three Greeks live, we believe that it would be better managed if it had been done from Galicia. First, because the central government has to do with 28 similar highways, and second, because we understand that being close to the infrastructure allows us to better understand the needs. We believe, and we are convinced, that it is legally possible, and so have made it clear to both Junta and its President on various occasions, for example in the allegations to the 2012-2024 Transport and Housing Infrastructure Plan, demanding that it be the Autonomous Community that assumes its ownership. We understand, like you, and we have also said, that neither international connections nor connections to ports and airports of general interest in the State are reasons to avoid this transfer to the Autonomous Community. And besides, as you said, this position is supported unanimously by all the Greek political groups with parliamentary representation, and it has been approved in this House, and we will continue to bet on that unanimity and on getting that transfer. For the information we have — it seems to me that they partly tell things — the reports of the Spanish Executive do not block the debate in Congress, but they do extend it and condition it to broader reports, which will arrive, and it will be time to have this parliamentary debate. But, in any case, and to make it clear, we believe that this debate must not be prevented by the Government of Spain, because this is a unanimous request from Galicia, this Parliament. It's collected in our electoral program and it's a goal we're going to work on. On the other hand, you speak and make a comparison with rescues from several motorways of Madrid's radials, but there are no comparable cases, they know perfectly well. Because in the case of highways in Madrid it is a situation that survives a breakdown of public concessions, which are in competition proceedings, and in which by law, the Administration has a heritage responsibility and has to face. Ladies and gentlemen of the BNG, they should know these conditions well, because when they were in the Bipartisan Government, and they were part of this government, they left behind property responsibilities worth more than 200 million euros in concessional contracts signed by that government. I therefore believe that we must be responsible and meet and meet the legal obligations. The central government is obliged to rescue these broken roads to prevent and ensure that they remain in operation, that they are operational for citizens, if they do not have to close, according to the act of the Mercantile Judge who ordered the liquidation of the companies that manage them. So it contains the truth and it contains and does not compare cases that are not identical. On the other hand, and a few days after the takeover of the new governments, both in Madrid and Santiago, on December 5th, the president of the board held a working meeting in Santiago de Compostela with the new Minister of Development. This meeting decided to set up a central government-autonomous bilateral commission to share all AP-9 management decisions. It was also agreed that the first management decisions that would be shared would be the confirmation that the access to the City of Culture will be in the 2017 budgets and that the benefits of the fees at Barcala and Rande Bridge will be financed in full by the Central Administration. This — to be clear — means that Galicia will save EUR 6 million a year, and will also be involved for the first time in the management of the motorway. That's why we said that at that meeting there was the greatest advance in the history of the concession towards the request for his transfer to Galicia, and that it had a very fruitful result, 6 million recurrent annuals. Therefore, within the framework of this committee, negotiations on possible flexibilities of AP-9 tariffs can be addressed. Just as in that committee, we can move forward in negotiations to address the transfer of ownership of that infrastructure, to which I insist we do not give up. So — and that is why we say it — it has been more advanced than ever, because for the first time the Government of Spain agrees that the decisions of the motorway affecting Galicia should be made in accordance with the Community. It will be done in a corresponding manner between the two administrations. And yet with this historic agreement, the Autonomic Executive will continue to demand the transfer of the ownership of AP-9. And, gentlemen of the three groups, there is no treason, there is no outrage, no change of jacket. The only ones who have changed their jacket from 2007 to now are those of PSOE and BNG. There is no change of jacket, no head down, no!, the demands are kept and moving forward to get that transfer. They take steps as they have never taken, we will continue to demand ownership for Galicia on this highway. We are not going to give up on her, Mr de Marea, and we will continue to vote whenever it is asked from this Parliament. And, PSOE gentlemen, account adjustment, neither, the only ones who really know here about adjustments and internal backs are the three opposition parties, as we're seeing these days within their parties. If they want to transfer to the People's Party those internal struggles that all three have, they're going down the wrong path, because that's not our case. Therefore, the ownership of AP-9 is the objective of the Galician Union and the Galician PP, and so they will continue to defend it rigorously and seriously in all appropriate forums. But as a matter of fact, we're not going to fool the citizens, we're not going to do easy demagogy with the peas and, above all, we're going to keep working to get it. President, I'm done. Let me, before I'm done, move our sense of vote. To say that we are not going to renounce any of the objectives and that we will continue to demand that all infrastructures of general interest for Galicia, of general interest for Galicia, be recognized and continue to move forward. In the case of the BNG proposal, we would like to ask for a point-by-point vote, on each of the four points proposed by the BNG, in order not to break the unanimity reached in this Parliament and let us continue to maintain this unanimity in substance. As the third point is, we cannot support the BNG proposal. And by the proposal of En Marea we find no objections and the People's Group will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. Parliamentary groups responsible for non-legislative proposals. You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the BNG Mr. Xosé Luís Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u171	Well, the truth is, the spokesperson for the People's Party, Mr. Fernández, made here a paperboard. The truth is that it's hard to defend the positions they have to defend on this issue and all the contradictions they have, because, of course, you're the same party, you're not a party here and another one in Madrid, and you have to be consistent, therefore, and stick to the positions that take your party in Madrid, which are humiliating, which are degrading and which leave the People's Party of Galicia, the Government of the Union and its president very badly. Look, when you introduced this initiative, and when the BNG proposed a common front to defend the dignity of this Parliament, they published a press release that said, "We believe this is not the best time to address with the central government the transfer of AP-9, bearing in mind that we are talking about a government in function, which joins the situation in Galicia, where the investment debate is being organized. We consider it more convenient to wait for the new Central Government to comply, as well as the Greek Government, to take forward how many initiatives we consider necessary to try to correct", to try to correct — I urge you, Mr Fernández, gentlemen of the People's Party, ladies of the People's Party, to try to correct, "the error we consider is occurring from the Ministry of Development denying the transfer of AP-9". What correction? What kind of correction did you make to the Ministry of Development? What kind of correction did the President of the Board make to him when he met with the Minister of Development, accepting the State Government's taxes and worshipfully? What kind of position did you defend more than that of submission and servitude? No one else! So you're not trustworthy, the reality is that you're not trustworthy. Your word, written in your programs or verbal, is worthless, it's worthless. Therefore, no coherence, no decency, no shame. That's what you can say about your position. And they have two options, they have the option to be loyal to this Parliament and this country, but to be loyal here and in Madrid, because there are MEPs and members of the People's Party who also vote in Madrid, and there are ministers and rulers of the People's Party and president of the Government of the Greek People's Party — born Galicia — because more than that cannot be said — who also vote in Madrid and make decisions in Madrid, and make decisions against the interests of Galicia. And it takes, in addition, the face and the outrage of the same time that that decision is made to approve the rescue of these ruinous highways and to allocate more than EUR 6 billion — which will be used from public funds to save those highways — when they refuse to go to Galicia. So they have no word, their word is useless, their coherence is useless, they have no decency, they are not ashamed and they are consuming a real betrayal of this Parliament and this country. They dress up as they like, put on the mask they want...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u173	...vote what they want the reality to be that and not that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Bará Torres. Mr. Antón Sánchez has the floor on the other author group of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u175	Yes, first of all, two questions that need to be clarified. He just sold again the achievements of Mr. Feijóo's meeting with Mr. De la Serna. But look, I wanted to remind you that we also read the Dog, Mr. Fernández Prado. They've resold used goods. When Mr Feijóo has been selling access to the City of Culture for a week now as a counterpart to the resignation of the agreement of the German Parliament, he once again wants to deceive. On September 26, 2016 Development and the Galician Union sign the agreement that sets the conditions for financing access to the City of Culture, mileage number 70, Mr. Fernández Prado, on September 26, that was already achieved, that was already achieved. Of course, it's normal for you to look for something to sell in the face of that tremendous resignation that Mr. Feijóo has made. And it's not a report of the government waiting for other reports, Mr. Fernández Prado, it's a blocking report for the processing of a bill. In accordance with the above-mentioned criterion, the adoption of this bill meant an increase in budgetary appropriations, so that the Government does not give its consent for its processing under the sixth paragraph of article 134 of the Constitution. This, what do you mean, any reports you're looking for? No, this is blocking based on a lie, because the approval of this bill did not mean the modification of credits. They lie and stay so wide. And I think they lie to your party, or don't you belong to the People's Party? The adoption of the law of the German Parliament was not subject to any change in the appropriations and they are arguing this to block it. And it ends: "For all this, it unfavourably informs the Proposal for an Organic Law on the transfer of the title and powers of the AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia". Point and end, no reports. Therefore, it contains the truth. You're talking about the Madrid radials. Indefensible! Same old business, same old business. They have a lot of ease to take out the check-up and save characters like Florentino Pérez and, on the other hand, none to defend Galician rights. Finally, to tell you that we appreciate you going to vote in favour, but are you going to comply, in addition to voting in favour as in the past? Are you going to do something? Will Mr. Feijó act with the same bluntness he acts in front of mayors of this country who are not of his own color? Will you act with the continuance that acts when you speak of Catalonia or Andalusia as a member of the People's Party? Or will you have the same attitude you had on the visit of the Minister of Development, Mr. Fernández Prado? We hope that, in addition to voting in favour, they will act accordingly and demand that the People's Party not do what they did in the Committee on Development a few days ago, which is to vote against this. How does the Popular Party work? Because if you talk about our internal wars, then you, what, who are voting here one thing and another in Madrid; the Welsh Members of the People's Party in Madrid vote one thing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u176	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u177	...and you're here another. And you're talking about us? I believe that the People's Group and Mr Feijóo must be in keeping with the circumstances, we are not going to buy the motorcycles that they want to sell us, and we want that we simply respect the democratic right to which we use that law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u178	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Let's move on to the next initiative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the recovery by the Government of the free program of textbooks in all primary and compulsory secondary education courses
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u179	Initiative published in the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament of 16th of 11th of 2016. No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, has the floor to make this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. First of all, I'm sure I won't be called to order by the Presidency. Since my fellow countryman, Mr. Castineira Broz, on a motion relating to evictions spoke of the leave of work in the Town Hall of Lugo, I will also be allowed to make a couple of references to two matters which we have said have caused some disturbance within the peace, almost monastic, which has been mediated in this Chamber. First of all, I would like to refer to a very unfortunate statement in this Parliament where reference was made to the president of another autonomous community of this state, speaking of folk regionalism. It is unacceptable, that lack of respect for another autonomous parliament is absolutely unacceptable. And secondly, I am also upset, although it is not a reference to my political party, when the political group was compared to a brand of beer in Marea, it is an unacceptable disrespect for the 14 Members in this Parliament and the thousands of voters who have, it is unacceptable! [[Applause]] Having said this, I am going to stick to the matter that brings us here and, in line with what our spokesman said in the investment session, we are going to do — even though the People's Party is not following precisely the statement of intentions made by the President of Parliament at the solemn session of openness, consensus and respect between political forces—promotive policy, we are going to provide ideas that improve the lives of all the Greeks and all the Greeks. And, in this case, I sincerely appreciate the presence of the Education Counsellor. Our proposal, of course, concerns the recovery of a program, of an extraordinarily important, extraordinarily relevant program, which is the freeness of textbooks in compulsory education stages. Ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, public policies, their design, must be systematically based on three fundamental parts, three feet, if they want, which are efficiency, equity and democratic control in public policies. On democratic control, of course, we are now in the right forum, we are in the Galician Parliament and therefore it is out of the question that this is the right forum to deal with this. And this is not a question of ideology, because if it were just a question of ideology, we could stick to the political argument. Nor would I like to hear here, as I have heard on more than one occasion, that there have already been elections, that people have already spoken, that we already have the result that people wanted — which is true — but as far as I know in the elections of last September there has not been a vote if there were free textbooks in the mandatory stages. So that argument of little or nothing will do me any good. Therefore, democratic control is fundamental in all public policies. From the point of view of economic efficiency, that is to say, we spend the few money we have always, because we always talk about economic insufficiency, and it is true that there is in the development of policies, from the point of view of expenditure efficiency, said that in the course of 2008-2009 — during the diabolical government bipartisan—which was what was most invested in free textbooks, investment, spending, as they want to call it, was €22,130,000, and at that time all the students in the autonomous community had free textbooks. I am, of course, talking about the mandatory stages. When the People's Party arrived at the government it considered, justified in a situation of economic crisis, that it was necessary to cut that expenditure and therefore opted for what at that time and now continues to be called the Solidarity Fund of textbooks, or rather — sorry — a programme of solidarity free. Because yes, you adorn any policy with the "solidary" adjective, which seems to provide them with an absolute course patent to say that this is the best policy that can be done. Well, that magnificent program of solidarity gratuity I assumed that in 2013-2014 the amount allocated to it was €21,410,000, i.e. €90,000 less than when the program was universal, when it was totally free, the difference that at that time the program assumed that 25% — and I'm talking about statements from the Education Council itself — of the student had the right to help, that in no case they cover the total amount of textbooks, as the media often remind us of each September, which is when the course begins. And that's when you say, because this must not be very well thought up, because if we're spending almost the same, $90,000 less than we spent before, and we give you incomplete help to the fourth part, it's that we've misdesigned the policy. Then the loan system reappears, that's right, under the heading of the Solidarity Fund. Solidarity again. That is, what in 2009 was not pedagogic, that was to reuse textbooks, in 2015 it comes back to stamp. Well, I've read something from pedagogic currents, not because of affection, but because of profession, and in five or six years there's no such evolutions as to say that what wasn't before is now. I could make some easy joke about this that what I didn't before, now yes, but this isn't the right place either. But, of course, you answered what you were seeing as a real social revolution crafted by the associations of mothers and parents of families that were being organized to lend themselves books to each other, in a model more propitious of underdeveloped economies than of a modern Galicia, which is what they sell us permanently and, in any case, is what we want to be all of us here, that's what I'm sure. And once the pedagogical convenience of reuse of textbooks was reinvented, it turns out that the figures are still worryingly close and permanently wrong, because everyone, absolutely all the courses — and it's in the CEO — had to expand the amount of aid to families, which means that they calibrate badly or that the real need is unfortunately greater than you think it is. And so we move in this course that we start with a frame of ten and a half million euros, which I suppose this month — you, Counsellor, will know perfectly well — will have the corresponding enlargement, because the truth is that it would be the first year that this fund is not needed to be expanded. And with respect, finally, to fairness — because I am going to end time and the matter is transcendent — to equity in public policies, it is necessary to say that since you have eliminated the universal system of freeness, through the reuse of textbooks, you have allocated EUR 108 million to direct aid to families, with EUR 108 million which, of course, have partially solved the problem of some people, it is true, but in no case, they have solved the problem of the total number of people who have children and children of school age. So, I insist, it is a question of fairness, of democratic control and of expenditure efficiency, and therefore what we ask when we present this non-law proposal is that this economic efficiency, that you say that your government is moving permanently to the autonomous community, and that therefore exists—it seems that all the indicators of the chivatos are already green, and at best some are left in orange, the rest is wonderful—that this economic improvement is moving to a social improvement; therefore, we believe, frankly, that with minimal effort we can carry out this policy that will benefit all the Galicians and the Galicians, all those who have children at school and all who are going to have them at any moment, and consolidate it as a right of the citizenship of Galicia and not as a prebend that is going to direct to the families. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u181	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u182	Well, go ahead and we will support the Socialist Party's proposal, because it is the model — the loan system and free books — that defends the Galician Nationalist Block, but also, in addition, it is the great demand of the ANPA. A model, besides, I say, of loan and freeness that, in view of the current model, is placed in a species in half-way and wrong way. And I would say that — I would say, in addition, yesterday to the advisor himself in his presence in the 3rd Committee on Budgets, because the aid for the purchase of materials and textbooks for families in the budget project for 2017 is cut into 5 million euros and the Solidarity Fund for Books is provided with only 3 million, and we understand that in no case are there to meet the needs of families, that I believe that none of the people we are here should remember the cost of having a textbook of a person who is, for example, in 3rd or 4th compulsory secondary education, that in some cases even 30 euros per book. We understand, in addition, that this loan and free system becomes, in some ways, a pedagogical element more within the teaching itself and that it is beneficial for the student, because it makes him responsible for the care of that material that must pass on to the generation that comes from behind. It's an extensible pedagogic element, too, to one of the proposals that we will discuss later, such as the school eaters. We understand that this free system of textbooks not only helps families to ensure that they can have equal access to compulsory education, regardless of the level of income and the purchasing power that families have, but because it converts students into more autonomous people, into people more responsible for early age; it's a way of growing up learning from day to day, beyond the acquisition of knowledge. In this sense, we understand that that gratuitousness and that loan that was introduced in the years of that seven-headed monster, which was the Bipartite, should return, because it is already walking, so we see, in the incorporation of that solidarity fund or of textbook loans, it is already walking by the Government of the People's Party in this sense. We don't know if they're going back and recognizing that it was a mistake to have him removed, perhaps in his speech who assumes the spokespersonship of the People's Party, in this sense, he can explain it to us. I say you can count on our support in this proposal. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u184	Good morning to all and to all. Well, In Marea will also support the Socialist Party's proposal, not only because it is a very important demand for all parent and mother associations in Galicia, but also for the whole school community. I believe that there is a word, a word that we heard yesterday repeatedly from Mr. Education, Culture and University, and that today we also hear from the Socialist Party, which is a beautiful word: the word equity. The word fairness is beautiful because it means equality and because it means justice. What a wonder, what a coincidence, we love the word and it's something we have in common with all the people in this House, what happens is that we do not seem to understand the meaning of equity in the same way. Yesterday the Counsellor also spoke to us — and speaking about the respect requested by fellow Members and fellow Members — asking for respect, and I believe that active respect is very necessary. He made allusion, he didn't know exactly how we were called, but he made allusion to an expression by which we — also in the Committee on Education and Culture — were curious, because you said we were inclined to launch a sentence that was: Long live Cartagena! I asked my whole group if anyone knew the sentence Long live Cartagena! And it seems like it's a phrase that only you know and that gives us -- well, it'll know more people, obviously -- Long live Cartagena! It's a phrase that said a zarzuela singer in the 19th century when he got wrong because he got out a cock, and instead of recognizing his mediocrity, his problem — we all have the right to throw cock and fool us— he said: Long Cartagena! because the function was developing in the circus theater of Cartagena. So, we thank you very much for that data, because if you didn't get to say it, I wouldn't know anything about this interesting anecdote, if it weren't for you to have a second reading that we're a little bit thrown out to say: Long live Cartagena! Others or others are thrown to say: Long live the wine! So at this moment I think it would be more appropriate to say, "Long live the wine!" and if it could be Vega Sicilia, better. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Well, we could keep laughing, but I would invite the Counsellor, since he has also given us reading proposals, which read The paradox of the comedian, which is an invitation to dialogue and not to the monologue, which seems to be the most important thing in this House. So, all of this would be quite interesting to look into and deepen if it weren't for the theme we're dealing with is a very serious subject and it's not for slapping. If you wanted to say something else, because you said -- and yesterday it wasn't December 28th -- that they were going to spread Greek to New Zealand, Japan and China, then I would say, making an allusion to a Chinese tale, which is a great wisdom: "If I look to tomorrow, seed corn, if I look a little further, seed trees, to be possible natives, but if I look further, I educate." So, we have an extraordinary sensitivity, as it couldn't be otherwise, so we're here elected and elected, because people trust that we can also provide enough, not only with despicable songs that are saying that in mediocres. Well, thanks to the social pact, which strengthened the emergence and development of public services, universal coverage, the public school was liberating territory that allowed access to culture and training. The theme of textbooks has to do with what you always say, which can be done with less. Well, no, that argument, raised by the council, to replace universal loans of books in public education, what it created was, really, not free solidarity, but free insolidity. And this is a certainty in view of the results. So, as time flies, from what I'm seeing, I think it's not about talking about who manages best, but about who is able to manage better public money, but about the notion that we understand, and that is the right to education, and the right to education goes through equality, justice, and at least this policy, which has led from 2008 to this year to halving the help of textbooks, it works. Obviously, we defend solidarity, we defend law, and this debate is not for anything trivial, we believe it has to do with what was also spoken this morning — by the absence of half of the parliamentary group — things as important as energy poverty, such as rejections, and this which has consequences...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u185	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u186	...also in children and children living in poverty fringes who are having a lot of trouble with their families in order to advance the money from the books, just to advance it. If they can't afford the 300 euros rent, how can they advance the money? Suppose a 17% cost to the families that are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u188	...—I am finished— living this dramatic situation. That is why we support this proposal and are, of course, supporters and supporters of your commitment to real equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u190	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Mr. Álvarez, the truth is that from your intervention I have to tell you that I fully agree with you in an analysis that you initially did, when you say that public policies are basically based on efficiency, equity and democratic control. Obviously, we fully agree. In addition, we also add important concepts to us such as solidarity and redistribution, which are precisely the key concepts on which the system of textbooks we have in Galicia revolves around. The truth is, we're talking about a system that, precisely, as I said before, has fundamental criteria, which are solidarity and redistribution, and which is supported or which revolves around three main actions: that are the checks help, on one side, the Solidarity Fund of textbooks, on the other hand, and then everything that has to do with the digital book, which is a question, because it's starting from the Abalar Project, the digital education project itself. They are all aspects related to the Greek model of textbooks for this course. So, in that sense, because the truth is that we understand it's a system that pushes solidarity and pushes redistribution, and I'm going to explain why. You made it clear in your intervention that you are supporters of a model different from that which the Popular Group supports, you are supporters of a coffee model for all, and we are more supporters of the model of helping those who need it most. And, therefore, a system is implemented which is based mainly on helping those who need it, not on coffee for all; perfectly legitimate model differences, but which, of course, the Government of the People's Party is committed to helping those who need it most. In that sense, we have to point out, too, that we are talking about a system that works well, a system that has tested, tested and evaluated by different organisms its operation. For example, the Pisa Report speaks of Galicia as the OECD's most egalitarian and equitable system, and in direct reference to the loan and model of textbooks. Besides, it made me funny that you didn't make reference. In the explanatory statement of its non-law proposal, reference is made to a study by the Ombudsman of the People's Free Book of the Year 2013, and almost all the explanatory statement deals with this study or is based on that study. And it must also be said that the Ombudsman, in 2015, specifically on 30 May 2015, sets the model of the Greek model as an example to apply in other autonomous communities. Interestingly, nothing appears either in his argument or later in his own non-law proposition about this reference or communiqué issued by the Ombudsman to evaporate and to say that the Greek system should be transferable to the rest of the autonomous communities. But besides, and when I was initially talking about democratic control as one of the fundamental pillars on which public policies are underpinned, you were also making a money order saying that you didn't want to listen to anything that had to do with the holding of elections and in those elections the different educational models were submitted to the public opinion. But listen: democratic control is also exercised through electoral processes; and an electoral process has just legitimized, precisely, the model that is being carried out by the German Government. So, in that sense, we understand that we are talking about an equal and equitable model, a model that is also endorsed by bodies such as the Ombudsman and a model that is, in addition, endorsed by the Greek society, so we understand that it is a model that does not have to be modified. Furthermore, there is a question that we also understand as important — I said before — that we are not coffee supporters for everyone, but precisely to help those who need it most, so these aids are always linked to income levels, that is, access to both the solidarity fund of textbooks and the cheques helps, is precisely linked to the income levels of each family: equity and redistribution and, also, why not? solidarity. But we're also talking about a system that, not only has to do with the checks, with the solidarity funds of textbooks, evaluates or addresses those people who have less resources, but also -- as I said before -- we're talking about a system that allows the educational community precisely, and also people with specific needs, who are, for example, people with disabilities equal to or greater than 65%, to have preference in the allocation of books, in this case regardless of the level of income. So we understand that it is a solidarity, equitable and redistributive level. And already to finish -- that I see when I'm done with time -- just make some reference or bring the collation a little quote from British philosopher Bertrand Russell that said that the hardest thing to learn in life is to know which bridges to cross and which bridges to burn. Stop once and for all trying to burn and pretend to destroy what works well. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u191	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u192	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gil, if you cause social fires and forest extinctions, you know enough, you don't have to quote Bertrand Russell in this Chamber. Look, when I was talking about efficiency and equity and democratic control, I was talking about academic sources; they're not things I invented. If you decide to add to the studies of public policies, solidarity and redistribution as additional terms, talk to them. To me, frankly entry and in a very superficial analysis, these two things, particularly the redistribution, would frame them in equity, perhaps it's a sub-concept not a new concept to the thread of their intervention. Look, the truth is, you didn't say anything about economic efficiency, and we did what we did, when we put the 2013 Ombudsman's report, it was just trying to use a neutral body in which to base a claim that we understand socially legitimate. We're not talking about half-burning bridges, we're talking about half-burning bridges, we're not talking about building bridges. We are talking about policies that are being implemented in other autonomous communities and that are working and that possibly some autonomous community governed by the People's Party, because of some other group that is currently in the autonomous Parliament and which needs to govern, will be forced to put into operation — and you know perfectly what autonomous community I am referring to —. So, here you come to me saying that the model of Greek is an example, frankly it's hard for me to believe... yes, yes, yes, yes, that's what you said, you said that in a report by the Ombudsman of 2015 would set the model of Greek as an example of what should be done. That's what you just said. Look, what I'm telling you is that the same institution in 2013 said that it understood that the free character of teaching didn't run out with the free program of textbooks, that is, it should also be free other materials that students need that, by the way, you have a published order that integrated this course in solidarity, solidarity freeness and school material for students, I suppose that because out there it's colder than here. It's not about coffee with milk for everyone, that's a banal argument, simple and reductionist, extraordinarily reductionist, because it doesn't take into account what I told you before. And if they want to vote that no, they vote that no, they're on their right. We have come here to propose a non-legislative proposal for the Government of the Union to recover a program, not because it was socialist or because it was no longer socialist, but because it was socially the best there was, and economically it is no additional penalty that is currently being invested in these programs because they are giving it... as I said before, it was trying to make you see... — next time I'm going to try to be more educational — I was making you see that investing practically the same thing and giving service to the fourth part of that much of what anyone can understand — even in a first or second level of primary — as an efficient model. I mean, if I spend almost the same and end up going home with the fourth part is that I'm not spending well. It's just that: efficiency; efficiency in what you're investing in and I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u194	...value you if, for an estimated cost of 6 or 7 million euros, it is worth having 75% of the Greek families out of coverage that provides a free text book system. Just that. And then they vote what they consider relevant, but they don't twist the figures, because the figures are very consistent and the analyses are done quite easily. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u195	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. We suspended the session until sixteen and forty-five, five minus four.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u196	We resumed the session. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the recovery by the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination of direct management of school dining rooms, as well as the action to be carried out for the establishment of a single model of school dining room for all Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u197	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u198	To formulate this non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u199	Good afternoon to all and to all. There's a book, which is the bread of young years, where a character puts a piece of bread in his pocket and stores it. He's a character who went very hungry during the war, and that bread code reminds us of what many of us in the meals, our grandmothers told us: bread has to kiss it and it can never be removed. Well, after this brief introduction, I would like to address an issue which we consider to be of vital importance for a number of reasons. The dining room service must, from our point of view, have sufficient coverage under parameters of nutritional quality and health contrasted. And why? Because the health and well-being of our children, our boys and girls, have to do with not only the present but the future of the school-age population, because we are conditioned by the food we receive. Especially — and as the World Health Organization points out — an educational center is a significant space for the acquisition of theoretical and practical knowledge about health and nutrition, and can be, above all, a foundation for disease prevention. There is scientific evidence that malnutrition, especially in early childhood, at the age of 0-7, can be durable and prevent good conductive and cognitive development. Why? Because it is shown that, for example, absence or lack of iron is associated with changes in behavior. And not only in behavior but also in psychomotor delays. While, for example, iodine deficiency reduces school performance and causes fatigue, not taking into account many other diseases that cause malnutrition. We know — and this is not a story, this is an event, a reality — that many of our children have many shortages. It should therefore be fostered not only as an element of health and nutrition but also as a element of socialization and reconciliation. We aspire — and we believe it to be legitimate — to the universal freeness of these services, which must be supported in a thorough review of the current control regime, avoiding co-op. Well, the process of privatization of the school dining service encouraged by Decree 132/2013 of 1 August of the Council of Culture, Education and Universitary Order, enshrines a useful vision of the dining rooms, as a mere complementary service, which favours, yes, family reconciliation, staff and work. But it's a decree that deepens in the enormous differences between Galician children and girls, every time it gives nature letter to a multiplicity of options in the provision of services that generate a real taffy kingdom. So, in recent years, we see that there are a lot of eating formulas, from some managed by the ANPA to dining formulas managed by different public administrations. And in any case they coexist, in turn, with two, three, and even four different models cogested directly. And it's important where you buy the products and how you get the products, as well as how you get the distance and also the topic of proximity. Why is it variable? This isn't random. There are several models. So we'll cite some management modalities. We have a way of managing directly through the centre itself, through staff officials, teachers or not, and by staff dependent on the Council; and by developing centralized food in kitchens owned by the Administration and consumed in the premises itself. We have an indirect modality: recruitment of the supply of prepared or prepared meals in the units of the centre by a company in the host sector, adjudicate of the service by the appropriate procedure. There are also ANPA-managed dining rooms, services managed directly by parent and mother associations under some of the possible modalities and co-financed by the Administration through annual competitive aid orders. And there are also some managed by municipalities. We have 1,044 schools in Galicia. For example, they are directly managed 434; by the center itself, 302; indirectly, 132; by management of ANPA, 134; and by management of municipalities, 42. This gives the map of why we say it's a little bit a kingdom of taypes. Because it's not unified, it's very variable the model and it changes a lot from center to center. So we can have very favorable opinions, like the ANPA of Ourense who manages nine centers and who has just received an award from the Consumer Agency, and who, at most, has a subsidy of 11%. Boys spend a lot of time in school, and when they're in class they have to have good habits, good nutritional habits, they have to chew well the food, we can't put them to stress because of the times, they have to eat in thirty minutes and at an accelerated pace, and that these boys suffer from that stress and have repercussions on habits that are not good and make bad digestions. As a matter of fact, it must be noted that a few years ago there was an interesting report calling on public administrations to direct public procurement towards small holdings and short marketing channels, reducing energy expenditure and the environmental impact of the transport of products, and — and this is very important — it can generate work on our Galician agribusiness in the production of natural products, of seasonal products, of sans products. It also alerted against the prejudices caused by these services outsourcing policies, that what they hide is clearly in the interests of not only large companies — sometimes far away in more than a thousand kilometres from the centres where these meals are made — but we know that companies that have now changed their names, such as Serunion and eight others, are large companies that benefit from a public budget. And this, from our point of view, is a matter of common sense to change it, because we clearly know that in the end there is no savings. And just as in books, the budget has been reduced by half since 2008, in school lunches, it has increased by a very high percentage. But the real saving is nimium, and it's more expensive to hire catering services that also gives canned food and gives food with few nutrients, and sometimes regenerated, put into freezers and warmed to brute temperatures. And the children suffer from these consequences. So what we want — and that is why we have come here — is, in the face of this situation which is so gravely detrimental to the feeding of students and students in Galicia, to present the following non-law proposal for their debate in plenary. First, we urge Junta to defend the right of all Galician children to have a quality diet, regardless of the schools they study in. Second, the direct management service will be retrieved from the centre. Thirdly, a call should be made to the entire educational community to set up a table for school lunchers so that they can consensualize a single model of school lunchers across the country. This is consistent with our understanding of teaching as a public and with the accessibility of all children and children. And I could say a lot more, but I think I have six seconds left and I don't exhaust them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u200	No, it's been a while. Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have tabled an amendment from the Socialist Parliamentary Group — as the GNP's proposed group knows — not because we do not agree with the GNP's core — that we are, of course, because who can question what you are asking for at point one, a quality diet? nobody with a common sense questions that, but, of course, we are questioning points 2 and 3 of your non-law proposal, and that is why we are making this proposal for amendment. Because the recovery of the direct management service by the Council obviously has to be linked to the former existence of that direct management service. If something is recovered, it was there before. And, therefore, our amendment, in that sense, would be referred to those educational centres in which it was managed directly, that is to say, to understand us, kitchens and school dining, cook with kitchen staff to give that dining service to the students — that there are centers in which there was obviously that — and in those that passed to indirect management without applying more criteria than a purely economic criterion that we therefore do not share. Because, of course, it's linked to the quality of the food. That's why we thought it would be recovered in all the centers where there are now both kitchen and dining facilities and that the only staff that is missing is to actually carry out the specific tasks of preparing food for the student. In that sense, our amendment was with respect to what you put forward in point number 2; that is to say, in those centres where there is already, that it recovers. As for point 3 of your proposal, you realize that you directly ask for the constitution of a table and give the conclusion of that table. I mean, it's a table to design a unique model for the management of school lunches. Look, you quoted in your exhibition a recognition that was given to an association of mothers and parents in the province of Ourense for their management. And that, of course, means that this is the right way, that is to call together the necessary collaboration and the complicity — if you want — of all the establishments involved in the management of school dining. And when we say this, of course, we speak of the Education Council, as we do not!, as first responsible and first involved in the provision of a service that becomes less complementary and more part of the educational process — as you very well just said —. I mean, it was conceived as a service to feed the children who couldn't return to their homes at noon. That's now surpassed by social reality. In that sense we agree with you and we will always agree. But the question is the management model; that is, the management model has to incite — because the reality of educational institutions is extraordinarily varied — to all public administrations that may be involved in that provision. And he used to say it, the Education Council, of course, but it's also the municipalities. The municipalities have to be concerned because there are many educational centers in which there are currently not even so much capacity from the physical space point of view to install a school kitchen dining room, which is what you at the bottom propose as a unique model. Well, if possible, they will have our support, but of course we prefer to pose viable and realistic alternatives in the short term and not a determination of an ideal model that could be around I don't know how many years and which, therefore, is not feasible in the short term. When the complicity and collaboration of both the local administration and the mothers and the parents of students are encouraged, where necessary, models work, and they work well, and students are given quality food. Because, indeed, the school dining room is not just a food service, it is a very relevant educational service — it is obvious and we will always agree. And not because it's a theory of the Tide neither of the Bloc nor of the People's Party nor of the Socialist Party of Galicia, but because it's a reality. It has been recognized since the beginning in the implementation of school dining rooms, and decades ago, decades since that regulation. But, I insist, we need to look for a model that is viable, that is feasible and therefore gives real answers to the needs that people have right now. And we understand from our parliamentary group that this model goes, as we proposed in the third amendment, to seek collaboration. And that's why we were talking about the Federación Galega of Municipalities and Provinces, to look for this collaboration, because there are examples, along and wide, of the entire autonomous community, of collaboration with the municipalities. It is true that on more than one occasion with organizational and even legal difficulties to carry out that service.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u203	But with a proper regulatory framework, they could give that service perfectly in a universal way, so that all students in the autonomous community who demanded it had this school dining service. Nothing else, and thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u204	Thank you, Mr. Álvarez. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Rodil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u205	First of all, forward our support for the proposal presented by En Marea. We support this proposal because we understand that the Galician Board should progressively assume the management of school dining rooms; among other matters, because the competences in education correspond to the Greek Government and we understand that all services that are linked in character or not complementary to that education must be taken directly by the Council and by the Council itself of Galician Council, breaking up with that coexistence, or that model of coexistence, between different management models: of one band, as was explained, by the Galician Board, another by the municipalities — it was now remembering, having here the former mayor of Manzaneda, who recovered the management precisely from his school dining room when he stole his school from that kitchen square — and others who are directly managed by the ANPAs. I was already telling them in the morning, and I was moving on at this point, that we consider school lunchers to be a more educational element, in addition to an indispensable service for reconciliation. I, in this case, always tell my personal experience of when I was studying at the school of the Piquin River, the CEIP Aníbal Otero, today, like so many other schools in our country, radically closed. But then the 5th and 6th primary student what we did was serve the food to the rest of the student. We set up and picked up the tables. It was a way of assuming responsibilities -- as I told you in the morning -- autonomously, of maturing people of early age as well, and of contributing no doubt to our learning, making us assume collective responsibilities, not only with regard to our own person, but also with our companions, especially those who studied child education. Instead, what we have today is services, on many occasions, in the hands of catering with low nutritional value, whose menus were the subject of great and strong criticism by ANPAs. Then, surprisingly, what we have found is the Ministry of Agriculture campaigns — which have always made me very funny — to promote the consumption of fresh fruit in school lunches. I was reminded of those campaigns, in dairy regions like mine, when milk consumption was promoted. They were bags -- I don't know if you ever saw them -- of milk powder that had zero nutritional value, especially when you have cows in the houses. At best those bags ended up in the pig stable. [[Murmurs.]] But out of that little anecdote, what we have are school eaters who, if assumed by the direct management of the Galician Union, can become... I don't know if you guys didn't live that milk experience in dust, but I'm 27 years old and then they still shared it. [[Murmurs.]] We have the possibility — I said — that if we assume school dining by the Galician Union, the possibility of ensuring good food; in addition to economic situations like those in which we find ourselves today, where children often cannot meet their food needs with food offered directly in families. We can take advantage of these dining rooms precisely to ensure that at least one meal has all the food quality that is needed, also taking advantage of our country's agricultural and fruit and vegetable wealth. In that sense, we would like — although we understand that this will also be another debate — to be promoted from the Government of Greece, from the Public Administration, the purchase of local and ecological products from, in addition to the productions of our own country; and not only in the school dining rooms, but in all the dining rooms that today have a public concession, but I say that this will be the subject of another debate. For our part, we will support the initiative because it seems to us, in addition, that it is one of the great demands of the ANPAs today. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Rodil. For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr. Fernández Gil.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u207	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The truth is, I was listening now carefully to what each of the groups said, and sometimes you can generate the feeling outside as if from the Government you thought it might be interesting to keep hordes of undernourished children or something like that. I think you should remember first of all that, whatever the model of management of a school dining room -- I repeat, whatever the model -- of course, they have to comply with the guide of healthy menus designed by Health. In this guide, of course, the nutritional conditions are set, the organoleptic, grassy and quality conditions that have to have these menus, regardless of the management model, are set. And by the way, In Marea, indirect management of school dining rooms know enough, there's no need to observe the Town Hall of Santiago to see how you know from In Marea of managing school dining, of managing, by the way, indirect. It's advice I don't have for me. Well, that's a little bit of the logic you want to apply in this House. Continuing a little with a contextualization of the situation, in Galicia there are more than six hundred dining rooms in public centers. It is a service that was initially established to fight precisely what would be the population dispersal in rural areas — because in many cases it was difficult to transfer students, in a reasonable time for them to eat, from school to home. But, as they well pointed out throughout their interventions, over time it was also becoming a very positive measure in the cities themselves to enable the reconciliation of working and family life. In this sense, today there are over 434 school dining rooms, two-thirds of which are directly managed, staffed by the Galician Union, and one-third of indirect management. Within this model there are dining rooms managed by ANPAs and dining rooms managed by the municipalities. In particular, there are 42 school dining rooms managed by municipalities. I'm going to put examples of municipalities that manage school dining. For example, Santiago de Compostela, ruled by En Marea; for example, Ferrol, ruled by En Marea. In both cases the dining rooms managed by the municipalities are indirectly managed, which is, at least, curious that an initiative of this calibre is brought by this group to this House, when in the municipalities where they govern precisely they apply the model of indirect management. And, by the way, earlier in Mrs Cuña's speech, there was an expression that strongly caught my attention, because it was said that after indirect management they could hide the interests of certain companies. We, from the Popular Group, interpret that in the municipalities where In Marea governs indirect management will not be for favoring the interests of some companies. We, the truth is, the same thing that we understand that when the Galician board opts for indirect management is not responding to the interests of any private company, the same benefit of the doubt we grant to En Marea — despite Mr Sánchez's reply — when they manage school dining rooms from the municipalities in which he governs In Marea. As I said before, we're talking about a model that, in one way or another, is not solely of current creation. The indirect management model was already present in the 2007 food decree, and dining rooms have been managed indirectly for a long time until today. Obviously, we don't have to understand that this management model is at the expense of the quality of the service. The truth is that this parallelism that is established on many occasions between indirect management and a lack of quality of the service directly affects reality, because on many occasions indirect management does not imply that impairment of quality. In short, we have a more fair and fairer model of dining. It must be borne in mind, precisely, that within the model of school lunches in Galicia, most users don't have to pay. And yet, then, by criteria of progressiveity, depending on family income, they're going to articulate different prices in order to access that service. By the way, I return to the dining rooms of Santiago de Compostela, the most expensive in Galicia, managed by En Marea in this case. So it's at least curious that you brought this House, as I said before, an initiative of this guy by this group. Finally, we understand that the model allows the viability of school lunchers in Galicia. In addition, there is a data to be put on the table, because in some way in the proposal it is said to return to a previous model, or to return to the year 2009 — specifically mentioned in the motion's explanatory statement. And it has to be noted that in this period of time we have increased from 58,000 dining places in 2009 to more than 72,000 squares in 2016. What do you want, to reduce the number of school dining rooms by returning to the previous model? If that's what they want, tell them openly, there's no problem. But, of course, before we say anything in this House, we believe that, since they have the ability to govern in many administrations, they apply precisely what they want to impose on others here. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u208	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Gil. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Cuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u209	I'm sorry I've only got three minutes to answer such an intense and important question. First of all, I would like to tell the Socialist Party Member that we believe that the Galician Council should take on the models of school lunches and that is why we do not accept his amendment, and that it is realistic to adopt the possibility of new facilities. There are deadlines, there are short deadlines and there are medium deadlines. I would like to thank the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block for its commitment to the proposal. And to give an answer to the MP of the People's Party, obviously, In Marea rules in Santiago de Compostela. He employs nine school dining rooms and covers 150,000 lunches. If it is true that the tender procedure was delayed, an invitation to tender was made precisely because they had to agree with the Department of Education, Contraction and Intervention. Of course, they can laugh. [[Murmurs.]] Well, it took a while. But it's curious that, indeed, we want to be very clear: that the seventy thousand pupils in Greece have no discrimination in the place where they live or in the school where they study. As far as interests are concerned, I might have explained a little badly. We really know all that there are transnational interests and that there are eight large companies that are benefiting from public money and that are giving a bad catering service. And if not, check it out. But there's data that proves it. So, with regard to public procurement, we are in favour of public procurement being proximity and ecological, of course, yes. So we believe that the commitment that can be made is beneficial for the entire educational community. It's a very important demand. And with regard to data, we have the same data, the safe source that is common: the COU, which is the General Secretariat of the Assistant General Directorate for Complementary Educational Resources, plus the ANPA. Indeed, for 2016-2017, 72,631 students were beneficiaries or used public dining rooms; 12,112 would use the dining rooms used by ANPA. What are we talking about? It's not about demonizing the work that, on the other hand, is from the En Marea Group in Santiago, which seems to be an example of corruption. So look at the embigo, please look at the embigo... and a six-month delay in processing, because it's a six-month delay assumed. [[Murmurs.]] It's more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u210	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u211	...what did he do?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u212	Silence, please, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u213	The stakes have been published on the web, the economic offer has been improved, they have been advised by a nutritionist professor of Vigo, which would be necessary to evaluate the results of the dining rooms and really look for indicators and see how the real situation in our country is; they can do it perfectly. And they limited the distance to a maximum of 180 kilometers, something that doesn't happen in catering that you do. They've been looking for new production and promotion measures...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u214	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u215	...they've changed plastic dishes to glassware, which may seem silly but it's not, they've doubled the scholarships of help to the dining room... and you know, because they've negotiated with Santiago Town Hall...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Cuña. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u217	Well... nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u218	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and four other Members, on the development by the Galician Union of a green infrastructure strategy that creates a network of natural and semi-natural spaces
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u219	This motion for a non-law amendment was tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the Galician Nationalist Block and the Marea Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u220	Mr. Fernández Prado has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u221	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. The European Commission is developing a strategy for European green infrastructure, as reflected in the communication entitled Green infrastructure: improvement of Europe's natural capital, defined as a concept that integrates ecosystem connectivity, the protection and provision of ecosystem services and mitigation and adaptation to climate change, ensuring the sustainable provision of these services and increasing ecosystem resilience. To this end, the European Union will strengthen the integration of green infrastructure aspects into a number of funding programmes, such as cohesion, structural funds, CAP or LIFE programmes. In Spain, Law 33/2015 of September 2015 on natural heritage and biodiversity introduces in its chapter III the creation of the state strategy of green infrastructure jointly by the General Administration of the State and autonomous communities, which aims to identify and preserve the elements of the territory that make up the green infrastructure so that territorial and sectoral planning ensures the ecological connectivity and functionality of these ecosystems, by mitigating adaptation to the effects of climate change. Autonomous communities should develop the guidelines of this state strategy within a maximum of three years since the state approval. In addition to the obvious environmental benefits and the impact on health and social well-being, European experience shows that green infrastructure solutions are profitable and contribute to economic development, promoting innovative approaches and creating new eco-business, which already accounts for more than 5% of the labour market in Europe. The Magram has entrusted the CSIC with the development of the state strategy of green infrastructure, connectivity and ecological restoration, which according to the commitment it has acquired is due to be completed by September 2018. Following the preparation of an initial draft, the team of researchers began a process of participation in which professionals from the scientific, business and public administration fields are invited. The Galician Union is planning to participate in this process to consider its environmental objectives from the beginning of the design of this strategy and to develop the autonomous strategy in parallel and synergistic with the state. The special characteristics of the Greek territory cause it to provide a great diversity and potential for ecosystem services. Some data are sufficient to recognize these potentialities: 1,400,000 hectares of wooded surface, 48% of the territory; nearly 50,000 kilometres of rivers; 1,498 kilometers of coastline; 72 different habitat types, is the third autonomous community with the highest number of habitats. It's a density of habitats that doubles the average Spanish, 17.4% compared to 8.2% of the average Spanish, which has to be added certain characteristics such as the need for a traditional agricultural activity or a close relationship between urban and rural areas. All of this makes, if necessary, the conservation, the empowerment and use of all these values, for their environmental and social benefits, but also for the capacity to generate economic activity and employment. The development of the Galician Green Infrastructure Strategy by the Union will not only bring forward the future European and national requirements, but, above all, strengthen the basic ecological structure of Galicia by defining a network of natural and semi-natural areas. Finally, it's about creating an interconnected network of green spaces and other environmental elements that retain the functions of natural ecosystems. Within the People's Party's commitment to the environment, territory and landscape, it proposes to urge the Government to draft Galicia's I Green Infrastructure Strategy, whose end is the creation of a strategically planned network of natural and semi-natural spaces and other elements, designing and managing to make a wide range of ecosystem services. The multifunctionality of this strategy is one of its main characteristics and an attribute that enables it to meet multiple needs simultaneously, which will make it a cross-sectional instrument that can support development and numerous territorial and sectoral policies: agriculture, energy, climate change, biodiversity, urbanism, landscape, mobility, public spaces, etc. Within this community pioneering strategy, it would be the subject of an integral management of its territory from an environmental point of view, in which four large groups of actions would be defined: habitat services, through this network of natural spaces; supply services, through the management of services such as water and purification, or even food and security production, based on raw materials in agricultural areas and gardens; a third group of regulatory services for greater resilience to climate change, promotion of sustainability or reduction of energy consumption: and fourthly, cultural services through the promotion of recreational services, well-being and health, bordered to clean air, ecotourism, posting in value of heritage elements, such as the Way, or other human heritage. The definition of these strategic environmental spaces will serve as a basis for the realization of actions such as ecological corridors, improvements in river basins, agro-ecological practices in agricultural areas, urban gardens, landscape improvement projects, improvement in water management, creation of forests in degraded areas, flood zone planning, resource efficient green spaces, with ecological functions, among others. In addition to the obvious environmental and landscape benefits, and its impact on improved health and social well-being, European experience, and thus expressed it to the European Commission, has shown that green infrastructure solutions are profitable and contribute to the economic and social development of societies, promoting innovative approaches and creating new eco-business, as small businesses are the main drivers of eco-innovation and very important in rural development in areas such as Galicia. In last week's Budget Board we've seen that by 2017 this strategy has an budget of EUR 250,000 for the implementation and for the start of a pilot project in the Marine and The Coruña areas. It's not the money in the strategy, to make it clear, it's for the design of this strategy and this document will be what defines the necessary future budgets. For all this, the Galician People's Parliamentary Group presents the following non-legislative proposal: The Galician Parliament urges Galician Parliament to develop a green infrastructure strategy that creates a network of natural and semi-natural spaces designed and managed to protect biodiversity, provide ecosystem services and increase ecosystem resilience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández Prado. You have the floor, by the groups that have tabled amendments, the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Luis Bará has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u223	Good afternoon. Today is a sad day, a black day for this Parliament, because it has just consumed a new outrage, a mockery of the Greek Parliament and our country with the position defended by the People's Party in the State Parliament, vetoing the process of the law on AP-9 approved by this Parliament. [[Applause]] I don't know if you — who I suppose will be of the same party that governs in Madrid, and who has just taken this agreement in Madrid — are of the same party you, Mr. Feijóo, Mr. Rajoy — care or not to defend right here the opposite position that the People's Party has just adopted in Madrid. I think it's very serious. I don't know if they have any conscience problems, because, of course, I would. Well, let's talk about the green infrastructure, which is what happens at this point, and it seems to us, to begin with, a redundant initiative. We suppose, I don't know, I think I understand, from what Mr. Fernández Prado said, it seems to me that it was already being developed; on the other hand, there is an initiative by the European Union that promotes green, green infrastructure strategies; there is also a state law of 2015, which also promotes these kinds of strategies, which marks a few deadlines. Although we have to wait for the approval of the state strategy — there would certainly be a document at the end of this year that we do not know or see where it may be — because I believe that the criteria of this infrastructure, this strategy and many infrastructures that are being built in the country could already be applied, and we do not see them anywhere. And, on the other hand, you bring up a somewhat mercantilist approach, saying that if we have this strategy we would benefit from grants from European funds, from structural funds, from cohesion funds or from the LIFE programme, they have not yet developed it. They worry about, above all, the reductionist conception that reflects its initiative, which has now tried to correct it a little in its intervention, but in the document that they have presented, of course, it seems to us a reductionist conception of green strategies, because green strategy is reduced to the natural sphere, to the field of nature; they have a reductionist conception of the environment. Perhaps the most important environment for people is the urban environment, the environment where life is developed, our life, the lives of many people, even people who live in rural areas. So it should be a priority objective of environmental policies, precisely the urban environment, and you don't seem to be very concerned at least at this initiative. We also want to note, and denounce, the fraudulent and propaganda use that is often — and I think it is present in this proposal — of green and sustainable. Everybody fills their mouths by talking about green and sustainable, so they seem to be bleaching — whether green or white — policies that can be tremendously aggressive... I don't know if Mr. Tellado can... I'm not saying pay attention, because I don't aspire to that, but at least let me talk. Well, policies that I think whiten acts that are tremendously aggressive to the environment. For example, infrastructures, but especially dominant economic policies: urban, transport, energy or forestry policy, which are once again under way. I think there's a... it seems to me to be disrespectful. You guys take a lot of pride in... but I think it's annoying to be listening to you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u224	Please, keep talking...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u225	...when we're talking.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u226	Please keep talking there's no interruption.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u227	I was saying...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u228	Let us continue the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u229	...that you use double morals and double speech by defending green strategies when you allow the situation of our rivers and rivers, when you allow aggression on the mountains. The greatest environmental aggression in recent years in our country has been, precisely, the transformation and destruction of the forest landscape, favoring private interests, particularly in the case of Ence, and now aggravated by the Accompanying Law, which will promote the eucalyptus monoculture and also the energy crops for those biomass plants that you will legalize. Also the destruction of the coast, legalizing aggressions such as the stay of Ence-Elnosa on lands of public maritime-terrestrial domination of the Pontevedra River. All of this makes you compatible with this green strategy. Or aggression, for example, of the construction of infrastructures, large infrastructures, high-capacity pathways, which do not contemplate precisely the measures that promote green strategy, something as simple as aqueducts, for example. We therefore believe that this proposal has many shortcomings, and in that sense there are a number of addition proposals which the BNG Parliamentary Group makes, first of all, concerning natural spaces, because I believe that it is evident that the lack of surface protected by the various natural space protection figures in Galicia. In the case of the Natura Network, we're in 12%, we're in line for the state in this matter. We're also talking about the recovery of marine-terrestrial public domain spaces...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u230	Go finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u231	...mainly of marshes and wetlands, and we make a reference here, we want to make an express reference here to the case of Lourizán and the lands given to Ence and Elnosa by a government in functions and also include urban and periurban spaces as a central part of the green strategy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u232	Thank you very much. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, Mrs. Patricia Vilán.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u233	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. A colleague of the PSdeG, a deputy recognized in this House, once coined a term; that term is "campanaire" initiatives, initiatives without content that serve the Government's office; for this is a campaign initiative. It is proof of a "campanaire" initiative that only served to get your proponent up here and read a document and that the rest of the People's Party MPs were practically not listening to what they were saying. Having said that, it is true that in 2013 the European Commission communicated to the European Parliament a document called "Green Infrastructure: Improvement of Europe's Natural Capital", to use as a tool and address threats to biodiversity and integral with other policies, other directives of the European Union, of water, birds and habitats. And as a result, in 2015 the Spanish State reformed its legislation. Apparently, a state strategy on green infrastructure is being developed, although nothing is known about this document, and autonomous communities, as the spokesperson for the People's Party, have three years since their entry into force to draw up their own. In Galicia we have been a little late — something to say — in developing a global strategy on green infrastructure, and what would not be wrong if it hadn't been because we've been in government for eight years, in which the Government has not been concerned about biodiversity at any time. And I'm going to put two examples: the examples of what is right and the examples of what is wrong. What is good and what must be done is the example of Vitoria-Gasteiz, who has a green belt of about 700 hectares, who won the European Capital Green Prize in 2012. In Vitoria-Gasteiz each resident has 45 square meters of green area. The entire population lives less than 300 meters from a green, open space. And there were two wetlands that were degraded that were recovered to the population and that are now protected internationally and recognized precisely by that effort not only of the Victoria-Gasteiz governments but also of the population itself. These three things were not foreign ideas, they were not "campanaire" initiatives in Vitoria-Gasteiz, but they were the result of a political decision that had been made by a green infrastructure for more than thirty years, with a rigorous plan of land management and a long-term commitment. That's what you should do when you want to do it. And now comes the example of what must not be done, which is what is happening in this autonomous community and what has happened in the past legislation in this Parliament. On November 4, 2015, in the Committee on the Environment, we discussed a non-legislative proposal in which my parliamentary group asked the Government to issue the Madrid Government the amendment of the Technical Code of Building to introduce a part which would go into this green infrastructure, which is called the green roofs, as a measure to combat climate change. Well, the People's Party voted against — including by a Member who is in this House — the comparison of the "green roofs" with the hanging gardens of Babylon, because, apparently, in the sixth century before Christ they also had the need to fight climate change. And so they voted against the very thing that you bring this initiative here today, because you live on these initiatives and those "campanaire" ideas, as our colleague Francisco Caamaño said in this House in the previous legislation. If we really believe in the green infrastructure strategy as a way to protect biodiversity, we could also plan the territory in a coherent way, which, by the way, we miss. But for that it is necessary to specify a time and it is necessary to specify a content, not to make a copy of the words that come into the law of the year 2015, which amends the law of 2007, and which literally copies the article and the communication of the European Commission. In 2017, what we propose to you for this green infrastructure, and with very specific content, is that you make an inventory of updated spaces and data of animal and plant species – – we don't even know how many wolves there are in our community, because you still don't have the data that the Magram gave them – – –; that there are necessary actions to improve their functioning and identify the agents involved; that there is a catalogue of constructive solutions and conditioning, subsidies, tax measures... that encourage the use of blankets, green walls, green corridors, as is happening in Paris right now, and compensatory measures for the loss of natural soil; that there is designed to be citizen participation, that in this case is fundamental, so that no further mention is made of the hanging gardens of Babylon, and that a dissemination campaign be made between the population of Galicia. And we expect it to be accepted, because we believe it improves its proposal, at least in the need to actually take account of Galicia's diversity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u234	Thank you very much. You have the floor, by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Marcos Cal Ogongo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u235	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We registered an amendment as a replacement amendment; our intention was that it was an addition amendment; therefore, we asked them to take it into account as an addition amendment rather than a replacement amendment. It would therefore be an amendment to add, which says: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to change its forestry policy by exceeding the current monoculture model of fast-growing invasive species, preventing the increase of the hectares currently occupied by this type of crops, in addition to substantially expanding the number of natural spaces under an environmental protection figure." If they are really concerned about protection, at the point we are, we should already talk about the recovery of natural spaces and biodiversity. From the Parliamentary Group on Marea we believe that they will be in favour of accepting this amendment, since they are concrete measures and not a provision to the sun without definite solutions. It seems very good to develop a green infrastructure strategy in Galicia, but, if they want to be credible, they must be accompanied by concrete proposals, which we already know now, without needing to turn them around, which are necessary to reach the end of their proposal. The En Marea Group will not vote for this initiative if it is not accompanied by concrete solutions, although we support this amendment that makes the European Union all the predatory policies of the environment and destructive of biodiversity in favour of the multinational company Ence that makes the Government of Galicia. This initiative brought us today by the People's Group is not because of a renewed ecological awareness of love for the land of the People's Group, it comes from a transposition of the directives of the European Union. This directive of the European Union is an amendment to all of the policies that have been implemented by the Council of Galicia in recent years, policies that are an attack on biodiversity and an absolute lack of protection of natural spaces and environmental values. It is from an absolute hypocrisy to bring here this LNP while the policies of the Galician Union promote that continue to increase the hectares of invasive species of rapid growth, mainly eucalyptus, in order to supply the new biomass plants that Ence will build within the "environmental pact". As early as March 2010, the Council of Ministers of the European Union set a new objective for the protection of biodiversity by 2020, focusing on fragmentation of natural habitats and urging green connection infrastructures to maintain biodiversity in natural spaces. The European Habitats Directive requires, for example, to ensure the connection between the Natura 2000 network spaces, to protect and regenerate valuable natural ecosystems and not to allow invasive species. This directly conflicts with the policy of Eucalyptus monoculture of the Government of Galician Union. What is happening in Galicia has only one name: destruction of the landscape, biodiversity and cultural heritage, to give way to a green desert of eucalyptus. The last forest inventory of what we are looking at shows the desolation of our biodiversity, encrypting to an 11.2 native forest mass, and the policies of recent years in this matter have worsened this situation, by action in some cases and by default in others, so we want to congratulate the Government of Galicia for reaching its goal of feeding the Ence with low-cost wood and that the Greeks and the Greeks need to catch a car in order to see a real forest in the narrow autochthonous fringe of the Eume Fragas, in the Ancares or in the Winterfell. Now we also see how in the Tax and Administrative Measures Act this government eliminates the limitations of power for large power generation plants by biomass, to which only Eucalyptus plantations are worth, of rapid rotation, so we understand that this alarming percentage of native forest mass still seems excessive to the Government of the Union and that it intends to complete a new challenge: that the Greek citizenry has to go to Asturias, to the Muniellos park, to see a carball. Something will have to explain to us, because we do not see how this initiative can be compatible with the policy of destruction of biodiversity that the Government has, by removing any limit to invasive species, with the sole intention of feeding low-cost biomass power generating plants, which is what we are asked to protect the Habitats Directive and Law 33/2015, from natural heritage and biodiversity. And I don't want to end without highlighting the bipolarity with which the Popular Group behaves, which cuts fantastic budgets presented by the advisor on Friday when it includes a proposal in the Budget Accompanying Act that deepens even further in this problem, giving free bar to the planting of eucalyptuses in the few places that still remain, and today it brings this proposal to protect biodiversity and natural spaces. Hurry up: or biodiversity and natural spaces or eucalyptus free bar. Hurry up: either defend the benefits of the shareholders of Ence or protect the environment and the interests of the Greeks and the Greeks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u236	Thank you very much, sir. You have the floor, for the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Martín Fernández Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u237	Thank you very much, President. I'll try to answer even though they've taken advantage of the proposal to talk about what they've missed in many of the cases, out of what's a green strategy. But, speaking of what Mr Bará has proposed, which I have already told you that, despite the fact that some of the things touch very far away what is the green strategy, we are in favour of accepting the amendment proposed by the Nationalist Block, because we understand that it adds some subjects and points to others and that it can be clarifying. But, as you well said, it's not that I'm a reductionist, because I think in the explanation I made it clear that it includes the urban area and especially the areas of city transformation or even contact between the two areas. So we don't think he's a reductionist, neither redundant, as he said. It is clear that there is a European strategy, which is being drafted by the Spanish strategy, but it has to be done by each autonomous community, by adapting and particularizing this strategy to the characteristics of its own autonomous community. And that's what we propose to work together on the three groups. He was talking about expanding the Glaga Network of Natural Spaces. That's not the objective of a green infrastructure strategy, but, as the advisor put forward the other day in the Committee on Budgets, there is a budgetary start to study that enlargement, and, once adopted the Natura 2000 Master Plan, the new one is planned for this year to do the study for the extension of that Natura Network, so, as it is redundant with the Council's proposals, because we understand that what is here is not one of the objectives of that green infrastructure, but is incorporated by the Council itself. He was also talking about recovering for social and environmental uses the public domain spaces on the coast. We agree with that, but let us be careful and careful, so that there are no doubts, that there are concessions and that the concession contracts must be respected. Outside of that is the objective of the strategy to incorporate these coastal spaces; and also to include, as requested at the third point, urban and peri-urban spaces as a central part of this strategy. So, I'm telling you, we'll accept this amendment. What we would like to see is that it was useful for them to rethink and once again consider accepting the offer that the advisor made the other day on that environmental pact, because this green infrastructure can be part of that environmental pact that offered the other day the advisor for this legislation. This was an addition amendment. The PSdEG presents a modification amendment with some themes that should develop the strategy. They talked about green blankets, they talked about other elements of the content. That's what the strategy has to develop. And then we use them to work and collaborate in the development of this strategy, and that there might be some of these things. We are in favour of this citizen participation and of the dissemination campaigns.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u238	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u239	I'm done, president. But the concrete proposals you point out must be evaluated by the document for each of the areas of Galicia. And in Marea's substitution, I don't think it's possible to admit it because it's talking about a forest policy, which is done through the corresponding forest management and management instruments, not through a green strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u240	Thank you very much, sir. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members, on the articulation by the Greek Government of the instruments and legislative amendments necessary to provide Galicia with an integral system of protection for persons reporting corruption, illegal and fraudulent practices
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u241	This initiative was published in the Official Bulletin of the Galician Parliament of 24 November 2016, and an amendment was tabled by the Galician People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u242	Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada has the floor to make the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. In the intervention of our spokesman during the investment debate it was pointed out that, as human passions are randomly distributed, which Malthus would say, we have to create the frameworks and institute the incentives that transform private vices into public virtues. "You" — was addressed to Mr. Feijóo — forgot the public specimen for two hours of speech. The problems of corruption have disappeared, it seems not because of what we see every day," and so we see these days, too. "Converts" — our spokesman continued by saying — "transparency in an effective principle of behaviour, with a law of access to transparency of more nordic inspiration, creating a register of lobby interests, interest groups, or creating the anti-fraud office, or protecting internal complainants to shorten corruption. The policies of transparency, prevention and fight against corruption and fraud, the public exemplaryness and, ultimately, the determined improvement of the democratic quality of our system are and will be a strategic line of our initiatives during this tenth legislation." During the United Nations Conference against Corruption, held in Panama in November 2013, corruption was scaled not only as a problem affecting developing countries, but as a global concern, one of the greatest challenges facing the international community, a common danger that demands more appropriate and effective measures from governments to be eradicated. In the research developed by international experts Franz Chevarría and Martha Silvestre they qualify and see corruption as a threat to economic and social development, by limiting investment and available resources for public policies, distorting the allocation of funds and priorities. Furthermore, it undermines citizen confidence in democratic institutions and contributes, as we are seeing at this time, to political instability as well. According to the World Economic Forum itself, the cost of corruption amounts to 5% of global GDP and increases the cost of doing business by 10%. For its part, the World Bank estimates that the money paid in bribes by private companies to the public sector, both in rich countries and in developing countries, is $1 billion a year. The fight against corruption has also become one of the priorities of the European Union. As the European Union's internal commissioner warned in 2013, Cecilia Malmström, close to EUR 120,000 million, is lost each year because of corruption in the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union, which is equivalent to the total budget of the Union. Europeans are also fully conscious, and 3 out of 4 consider corruption a major problem for their country; and almost half perceives that corruption has increased over the last three years. It should be noted that the Conformity Report on Spain, adopted at its 72nd plenary meeting on 1 June 2016, of the Anti-Corruption Group (Greece) of the Council of Europe, was published on 10 October 2016. The Greek Report calls for a severe correction to the inaction of the Spanish authorities, with the Government of the People's Party at the front, concluding that our country has not complied with any of the recommendations contained in its evaluation report for the fourth cycle of 2014. Without palliatives, Greek generally describes the degree of compliance with its previous recommendations as unsatisfactory. The governments of the People's Party have sought to create the appearance of pushing an ambitious package of initiatives aimed at combating corruption, but both the socio-political reality of our country and the conclusions, in this case, of the Greek Report 2016, deny in an unquestionable way this failed claim, not taking into account the demands advocated by the Council of Europe itself. As in other regions of the world, today we are witnessing a growing recognition from governments, both in America and in the European Union, that the fight against corruption cannot be centered only on the role of public servants, but it requires co-responsibility among all actors in society. And, in this sense, reporting corruption and the protection of complainants are two key tools in promoting government and private accountability. In order for citizens to exercise their right, they obviously need a cultural change in organizations, and the complainants feel that their confidentiality and protection against possible reprisals and discriminatory actions are guaranteed. And here we could make a small consideration of the importance of the education system and of education in values and citizenship to also contribute to this cultural change. Of course, Spain is not an ally to this ethical, social and economic problem, but neither, of course, Galicia. Our country, unfortunately, has many outstanding and recent examples of blatant practices of corruption and fraud, involving both public and private agents. It would be long to relate the series of cases that we are looking at practically every day in the media or in the courts. In the last barometers of the CIS, both October and November 2016, corruption and fraud are, after unemployment, the second largest problem that exists in Spain. In the law of the United States and other Anglo-Saxon countries, the tendency has been to encourage the conduct of those subjects who are willing to reveal the commission of illegal acts within the company for which they work, or, in the case of public employees, of the Administration. This figure already exists in countries that have protection from the complainant, such as Canada, the United States, Belgium or France. Norway, the Netherlands or the United Kingdom are precisely where the development of these measures is more than remarkable. Germany, Switzerland or Slovenia are about to pass them. The different independent organizations that are progressively promoting this anti-corruption and fraud mechanism are in favour of creating specific regulations that provide effective protection for those who filter information of general interest, such as the gesture of their citizen consciousness and often taking personal risks. The Fairy Techniques Union itself, Gesha, in our country, is advocating this protection legislation to advance very concretely in the fight against tax fraud. This legislation should establish a protective mechanism for all complainants, irrespective of the subject to which their disclosures refer. Denunciation of corrupt practices is a citizen obligation, it is an obligation of all. However, the personal, social and labor costs that can be borne by the complaining people make that attitude truly constitutes an unbalanced effort of courage linked to possible reprisals and therefore an effort often authentically heroic. This disincentive is one of the primary controls that the Administration must encourage, that of the public or private employees themselves who are aware of reprehensible practices. We are also faced with a resource that certainly has to contribute to trying to regain social control over the large organizations, which are taking place under the rule of the global community. That's why promotional organisations consider it necessary for this new policy framework to be encouraged to collect a series of absolutely essential guarantees, such as freedom of expression, confidentiality, the protection of identity and the guarantee of continuity in professional career, and psychological, personal and family tranquility, of course. For all I have just explained, and with the object that Galicia is not left behind but that it is even decisively put in the vanguard of the fight against corruption and fraud, our parliamentary group submits the following proposal not of law so that "the Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to articulate the relevant legislative instruments and amendments that provide Galicia with a true comprehensive system of protection to the complainant of corrupt, illegal and fraudulent practices, both in the public and in private, with the necessary guarantees" — as I pointed out — "of confidentiality, protection of identity and labour and personal tranquility". Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u244	Thank you very much. On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mr. Pedro Puy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u245	Well, the first thing I want to say is that we share the initiative, we share the meaning of your proposal in the fight against corruption and, therefore, in favor of your prevention, which, of course, we will always be. And as you know, we approved a new package of measures — often with the support of your group, some of them with abstention — at the end of the past legislation, which regulated the financing of parties, a law of transparency, a law of citizen participation, a law of legal advice and a law of prevention of corruption that reformed the Law of the Board of Auditors. A law, the one of the Board of Auditors, which, as you know — in addition, has amended the regulation which has been drafted by the Council of Auditors itself — precisely provides for a procedure such as that which you have indicated: that it may begin on its own, the result of this complaint, by the Council, an accounting investigation. Because it is true that one of the evasians Spain has, in relation to other countries that have made more progress than we in the prevention of corruption — and that some organizations such as International Transparency have pointed out — is in the protection of those who denounce cases of irregularities or corruption. And so we understand that this is something important, something to move forward, and, as I have just said, the Board of Auditors is going to contain a complaint mechanism. And, of course, that is why we consider it good to talk about this initiative and, if possible, reach an agreement. Secondly, it must be remembered that it already establishes the Criminal Prosecution Act — Article 262 — that civil servants or public officials have an obligation to report any offence, and immediately denounce it to the Prosecutor's Office; and that even all citizens have an obligation to file a complaint when they know or know the commission of any crime. But we also know that in the general regime of complaints of crimes, the organic law itself of the protection of witnesses and experts in criminal cases establishes that there is a difficult balance between the protection and anonymity of the persons who denounce and the right of defence of those persons who are denounced. Well, this is possible to conjugate him. It is true that denunciation and anonymity have no unlimited character at all, but it is true that we should not confuse what is the anonymity with what we believe must exist in this case, which is the guarantee of confidentiality so that the families and the complainants themselves will not be subjected to undue harassment. The fact is that Galicia, in addition to the Law of the Board of Auditors, has also done things in the field of administration. The protocol for the prevention, detection, action and resolution of situations of harassment at work and other discrimination in the work of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia explicitly provides that any public employee who is harassed in relation to cases where public employees report or bear witness to a proceeding related to any crime, treatment of favour or irregularity in the development of work and, as a result, is subjected to labour harassment or other discrimination in the work covered by the protocol itself. So, I think we can try to make more progress on this line, we can try to make more progress on the line than is called doctrine, playing the whistleblow, whistleblowing. In addition, it is provided for in the Law of the Board of Auditors itself, with regard to the General Administration, through the plans to prevent corruption, which must include some warning and protection mechanism to those who warn of the existence of corrupt or alien practices to which the management's own behaviour should be. And we understand, in any case — and hence the meaning of our amendment — that what is the general system for the whole of private and commercial life and business must have a broader treatment in a state law. A state law that we also believe will, of course, be passed, once all parties — including our own — had said commitment in their electoral program. So, waiting to be able to deal with the amendment and the original text, we are -- I insist -- waiting for that possible agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u246	Thank you very much. You have the floor by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Luís Bará Torres.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u247	This is a proposal for the protection of persons who denounce corrupt practices. We agree at the bottom of the proposal, although there are some questions in the argument that we have some concerns. For example, with reference to the UN V Anti-Corruption Conference, held in Panama in November 2013. I think they could choose another place for this meeting, precisely the UN meeting against corruption. Global concern about corruption, too. There is also some concern that world authorities such as the World Economic Forum or the World Bank, which are precisely responsible for many economic policies that we have judged from the BNG to be deeply unfair and corrupt. Or if you refer to the United States right, which does not seem very exemplary to us either. I don't know if I see a lot of TV shows, especially House of cards, but I don't think it's very exemplary in this matter either. Perhaps what we would have to agree with is the idea of corruption, because there is legal corruption and illegal corruption; corruption in B and corruption in A; corruption in black and whitewashed corruption, illegal corruption, moral corruption... and I would like to — taking advantage of the intervention in this matter — to do precisely as a complainant of corrupt, illegal and fraudulent practices, because there are many types of corruption and many illicit and fraudulent practices. I would like to denounce here, for example, the economic policies of governments that serve the interests of predatory capitalism, that condemn millions of people to poverty, exclusion or death, to suffering, and that squander public rights and goods. It also denounces decisions taken by government in functions, on the networks of State sewers, to benefit from private interests — e.g. ENCE —. Or denounce the rotational doors that lead governments to power company boards, for example; which also seem to me to be corrupt practices, illicit practices and fraudulent practices. Or the corruption of tax havens, the corruption of tax evasion and dumping that some so-called companies practice; or also the corruption of lobbying and capital, which conditions public policies; or the corruption of lies, deception and falsehood. So there's a lot to be done about corruption, possibly agreeing, first of all, with corruption and the different facets and modalities it adopts; also with some legalized and whitewashed. In any case, it seems to us that this is a positive and well-intentioned initiative, so BNG will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u248	Thank you very much. You have the floor, for the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u249	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. With regard to the protection intended to be granted to persons reporting on cases of corruption, we understand that, despite the difficulties that may exist from the scope of our autonomy for limitations which provides for Article 149.1.6 of the Constitution at the criminal and procedural level, where jurisdiction is reserved to the State and the Victim Assistance Office, where it reserves itself for the 149.1.5o, for the Marea this is no kind of problem, insofar as we are overcome by a procedural legislation governed by since Galicia in all those matters that are of interest to the entire citizenship of Galicia. So that wouldn't be a legal obstacle for us to demand this intervention from the Galician Union. But it's just, besides, who wants to find arguments and doesn't want to find excuses, and in the fight against corruption we look for arguments. From this Galician Parliament, the Council and the Government of the State must be urged to supplement the Statute of the Victim and the Statute of the Protected Witness, the Statute of the Complainant. It would be sufficient, in order to apply the same statute, simply that the person who at a given time complains from that moment offers his witness so that he can have similar protection to what is required here. We will therefore support this proposal. Furthermore, the autonomous community has direct competence in our country for certain measures. First of all, social awareness measures in relation to corruption. And so there could be public campaigns where social rejection was established to certain practices that rub corrupt habits. We could think of something that would make it impossible to receive bottles of wine of high economic value to those who had prior treatment with the Public Service. It could be a sensitization campaign; it happens today. It could also be educated in values at school, to make this kind of practice rejected from early childhood, so that it doesn't look like a possibility of also applying in the field of education from children or children who, as a result of having approved an examination, could take gominolas or larynx to teachers or teachers. It would be a good way to dissuade, from early childhood, from what must not be a practice that can lead to corruption. The ruling of the Constitutional Court 56/1990, which establishes the powers of the Administration of Justice, also allows the autonomous community to establish a specialized care office for persons reporting corruption. So we would also support in that context an action geared towards this. And once — we reiterate — the conditions to raise awareness, to denounce; once that person denounces and has knowledge of science — which is technically different from the exercise of the complaint as a declaration of will — could also be treated with the same Statute as a protected witness. I insist, whoever wants, finds arguments, and whoever doesn't want, finds excuses. Special measures could also be put in place for the fight against corruption, such as specialized exchanges of judicial experts in matters related to corruption, both in the field of administrative procurement and in the field of economic crime related to corruption. Something that saturates the instructional judges and those who can't meet often in time. Whoever wants, finds arguments, whoever doesn't want, finds excuses. But surely there will be a majority here who don't want to do this, because looking for measures that promote the discovery of corruption is to lead to their own discovery. Besides, research is an activity to know, and as some here of corruption know everything, they don't need to investigate anything. Corruption — and I'm going to end it — is cheating on public goods, on public services, on everybody's. Corruption is cheating. Corruption is lies, corruption is hypocrisy. And the corruption of the political word, the corruption of the given political word, is to commit to the transfer of AP-9 to Galicia and on the same day to veto its processing in Madrid; that is to corrupt the commitment to a country. Feijóo's word isn't worth anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u250	To end this debate, the author of the non-law proposal, Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u251	Thank you again, Mr. President. Briefly. First of all, thanks to the three parliamentary groups involved in the contributions, because I believe — not exclusively — that we are in one of these matters that touch the tuétan of democratic society and which, therefore, must be the subject of the highest commitment by all agents, not only public, but also private, in order to be able to walk in a healthy society ahead. That's why I really wanted to thank the speeches. As the spokesman for In Marea said, we have a field of competence, we have a number of possibilities for regulatory development, or for the development of advocacy activities, which can enable us to move forward in that direction, and from that point of view I do believe that we can do much more than we think we can do. I feel, Mr Bará, that the UN meeting in this case had been in Panama; I don't know whether it would be pre-monitoring or not, but I can't change it. If I mentioned precisely the World Economic Forum, the World Bank, etc., it was also to quote institutions that are part of the current establishment, which, if they are also interested in that corruption does not go as it stands, because if not, precisely, the whole system, the economic system itself, it has a serious economic problem, as I said. That's why I explicitly quoted both the Davos Forum and the World Bank. Yes, it is true that we have to agree on the term corruption, the term fraud, etc. These are precisely all the issues that I have put forward in order to reach a parliamentary agreement and which by the Galician Council — as far as the text of the non-law proposal — is concerned — progresses in these definitions and in these mechanisms. Mr. Puy, I also thank you for your intervention, because I think this — as I said at first — is an area in which we have to work irremediably all together. I also insist on that of all together, from the bottom of the initial knowledge field as is the education system itself, and I think that we must insist in an important way, but that doesn't mean that we can move forward with legal instruments or tools of promotion. In that sense, I wanted to express, with regard to the compromise proposal, that I think it is perfectly possible to reach an agreement in the following direction. That is to say, we are urging the Galician Parliament to urge the Galician Union to articulate a system of instruments and a legislative system within the competence of the autonomous community. But it is important to have an impact both on the public and on the private sector. And in the private sector, we can also influence — if we do not have enough competence, while others do not have it, and we do not demand more self-government quotas — that if we have opportunities for action to promote awareness in the private sector. And, of course, I do believe that we should all accept in that transaction the amendment of addition which I would be presenting, in order to urge the Government of the State to develop these initiatives in the criminal, procedural, labour and competition fields.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u252	It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u253	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u254	Thank you very much. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and five other Members, on the creation by the Government of Galicia of a card specifically addressed to pilgrims to Compostela that brings together different services of interest to them
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u255	The initiative was published urgently in the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament of 29 November. This initiative presented an amendment by the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Don Noa Presas Bergantiños; another amendment at the initiative of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, signed by Mr José Manuel Pérez Seco; and a further amendment by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea, signed by Mr Francisco Casal Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u256	To formulate the non-law proposition has the floor to Mrs. Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Tourism is a crucial sector in Galicia consolidated as one of the most active and capable sectors of development in the Galician economy, with the ability to influence other economic sectors, to generate intangible, to generate image and to form a concrete perception of Galician destiny. A strategic sector, therefore, which is having a renewed and strengthened weight in gross domestic product and employment, representing more than 11% of GDP and 12% of employment. And this is thanks to the good numbers of visitors that in addition to this year are going to be historic. I am pleased to say that such a decisive sector of our economy is living a single moment. With more than three hundred thousand international travellers, Galicia has surpassed in these ten months of the year the goal marked in the Comprehensive Tourism Plan of Galicia for 2016: we record a historic maximum in the levels of tourist demand, with a total of 4,510,191 travellers staying at 9,237,819 overnights. We must highlight the increase experienced by national tourism, which in the course of the year has reached the highest figures of the last six years, increasing by 9% overnight stays, reaching 7.100,000, and increasing by 7.6% its travellers by about 3.20.000. In terms of occupation, Galicia has improved its figures this year in all types of accommodation: hotels, tourist apartments, rural tourism houses, campings... with higher increments, all of them, three percentage points. If we talk about profitability, one of the big issues that we have to improve has risen by 16.1% registering Galicia one of the most important growths at the national level. The increase, both in demand and occupation levels in a context of rising hotel prices, had as a result that these establishments had once again improved levels of profitability compared to the previous year. It also increases, year by year, the total expenditure of international tourists in Galicia. According to the latest data from Egatur in 2015, it was EUR 984 million exceeding 9.7% of the expenditure made in 2014; the year in turn has already exceeded that of the previous year by 11.9%. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, national and international tourists, the expenditure they make, the occupation in all kinds of institutions and the profitability of them due to the tourism policies carried out by this Government. These figures, ladies and gentlemen, are the fruit of good work, of Galicia's firm tourism bet for achieving a solid and sustainable sector in time. And I want to take this opportunity to express my gratitude and my gratitude in good time and my appreciation for the work done by the director of the Galician Tourism Agency, Ms. Nava Castro. The figures are exceptional. [[Applause]] The will, both of the Government and of this parliamentary group, is to continue to make tourism an indisputable bulwark to consolidate economic recovery, especially knowing that this legislation will be key to preparing the next Xacobeo of 2021. A development of these characteristics is of such magnitude that it cannot and should not be improvised, or left for the last moment, especially if what is intended — as President Feijóo has already announced in his investment speech — is to make of the year 2021 the best Xacobeo in history. Even though we have all the legislation ahead, we have the advantage that we didn't start from scratch, as was the case in April 2009, when this government took possession for the first time, that it had to prepare the 2010 Xacobeo. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that in April 2009 there was nothing, nothing done. Well, I said we didn't start from scratch because we've been working on the improvement of the tourism sector in general, and on the improvement of our star product, Santiago's Way, in particular, since the previous two legislations. At this time, the Way of Santiago was strengthened as an international reference to pilgrimages, with the declaration of humanity's heritage of two new Jacobean routes. In this area, in the field of Xacobeo, figures also speak for themselves, since the number of pilgrims who made their way this time of year has already surpassed the historical figure of the last Holy Year 2010: it is more than 275,000 pilgrims of more than one hundred and fifty nationalities who received the Compostela; specifically, 276,998 pilgrims of whom more than 44% are Spanish and more than 55% are foreign. In total, 15,703 pilgrims arrived more than in the same period 2015, which means a moment of 6.1%. All of these historical figures that tourism throws in Galicia are possible thanks to the major plans with which Galicia tells: Galicia's Comprehensive Tourism Plan and Santiago's Strategic Director Plan. Through the Plan Director of the Way of Santiago, there will be a development and growth of the Jacobean Route balanced, sustainable and respectful with the phenomenon of Xacobeo. It marks the guidelines to promote the conservation and protection of the Way, taking into account all the agents involved in it, because the Way is one of our main tourist strongholds, it places Galicia in the world. It is an international product, destabilizer and catcher, therefore, of that international tourism. It's the most recognized, identity and representative element of Galicia. The best ambassador of the values of the Greek people: of our culture, of our history, of our material and immaterial heritage, of our gastronomy, of our character and of our hospitality; which makes many pilgrims become perceivers of Galicia as a tourist destination. That's why the pilgrim's experience is so important. Precisely, responding to the needs of the pilgrim of the 21st century offering excellent hospitality in the reception and favoring a quality experience throughout his pilgrimage, is one of the objectives of this Plan director of the Way of Santiago 2015-2021. So, gentlemen, we already have strategy, we already have plan, we already have roadmap to prepare ourselves to receive the pilgrims of the coming years and, in particular, of the next Holy Year 2021. We don't have to urge the Government to make another plan, as they're asking in their amendments, we already have plans. But yes, what we can do, is install and carry out actions in accordance with the established strategy, established with all sectors involved and with all administrations, because this is how the plans were made, in accordance with the administrations and sectors involved, so that we all work in the same direction. This non-law proposal will be directed to improve the services of attention to the pilgrim and to strengthen the city of Santiago as the goal of the Jacobean Route, because pilgrims are a very important source of income for the Greek economy, and especially for Santiago de Compostela, where more than twenty-six million euros were left in 2015. The presence of an increasing number, especially international, is a special opportunity for the various sectors that provide services to our visitors. The creation of a targeted card, specifically, for pilgrims arriving at Compostela would bring together different services from those they could access, give them a differentiated attention of higher quality and allow them an offer that often goes unnoticed. The pilgrim's average stay is around two days, this card would pay for the increase of his stay in Santiago and would be another tool for the promotion of Galicia, its resources and to combat seasonality. The goal — I repeat — is to increase both the average stay of the pilgrim and his expense, the expense he makes in Galicia. For this reason, this card should include unique entry into museums, transport facilities, discounts on cultural and leisure activities, restoration, in shops and shops of Greek products, in Galicia crafts and in markets and squares of supply. Waiting for the support of your lordships, thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u258	Thank you very much, Mrs. Romero. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Presas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u259	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. The truth is, I feel a double pity. On the one hand, I thought that in something as simple as a tourism card because we would be able to agree, but I see, by the intervention of the companion, which also does not. And, on the other hand, because I thought the publicity about Xacobeo, the Galician Union and so on, we were just going to have to absorb the Members that we were going to have to go to the tourist show, but unfortunately they had to listen to it too to the other opposition partners. Well, going at the heart of the matter, fortunately the bipartite did not end with the cathedral of Santiago in all the misfortunes he did, there is still compostelan tourism which is something that is undeniable, which by its extension is a fundamental centre for Greek tourism, is something that goes beyond the limits of Compostela's own Town Hall and which, in general, has two great challenges. [[Applause]] One of them, indeed, referred to by the Companion of the People's Party, and we agree, is this destabilization; betting because, precisely, tourism associated with the Santiago Road, which is not always religious tourism or not always the tourism that strictly makes the full way, can contribute to the destabilization of visits to a city that, although climateically does not correspond to these topics sun and beach destinations, it is true that it continues to maintain its tourism indices very closely associated with that part of the year in a better time. Another challenge, as two major challenges have been said, is to build on the complementarity of the type of tourism that offers, in particular, the capital of our country but also its comarcal environment. Given the reality that this city has, the reality that it has the comarcal environment, we understand that we would have to deepen this complementarity, taking into account the possible diversification of supply, with gastronomic tourism, congress tourism, cultural tourism, idiomatic tourism as well as others. So we understand that for all this it is necessary to move forward, to have a new plan, to go to more dialogue with institutions and with different sectors to improve these objectives. We understand that the scope of decision, organization, debate, deliberation of that card — which for us is a medium, a tool, but not the ultimate goal — must be involved with all kinds of institutions, not only at the Town Hall of Compostela — even though it gives a little allergy to the lords of the People's Party — not only with the municipalities as much as you know about the environment, but also with other institutions that have still associated — we note that for a short time — tourism matters, such as the deputations, or with Santiago de Compostela's own university, which, as you know, have an important spot in relation to tourism studies. So we understand that this would be the way and that, therefore, this loyalty product should be more global, in addition to not restricting itself exclusively to pilgrims, since I am neither the only type of tourism that receives this city nor the most economic return it has, that is that product of universalized loyalty to all types of tourists and that, as I say, it is another means, one more tool and not the end in itself. That's why we understand that rational, the best, would be to take this opportunity towards Jacob 2021, to involve everything in a more enveloping strategy that not only covers pilgrims and pilgrims and that would take advantage of the opportunity to walk in that greater destabilization and expansion of the offer, also taking into account the comarcal reality and taking into account that, such issues as those presented as the entry into the museums of buckets were very well, but most of the Compostela, it's also true that they are free, or matters like public transport, that we should dialogue with other institutions so that it would be better metropolitan even at the country level, and I understand that it is not intended to be confined only to the local issue of Compostela since, by its dimensions, it's not often very necessary for tourists who visit us or to have very high volumes of price. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u260	Thank you, Mrs. Presas. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Pérez Seco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. According to statistics, Galician tourism through the Way of Santiago is true that it is growing every year, so the creation of the pilgrim card seems to us a good idea but, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we believe that it would have to be developed a little more since the Way of Santiago has several routes, stages, by various municipalities of Galicia and it would be logical for that card to be used in all the routes of the autonomous community and not only in the municipality of Santiago. For its elaboration, it would be good to count on the collaboration of the municipalities, trade associations, hospitality associations, cultural associations, etc., from which Santiago's Way talks so as to be able to place all the resources of each collaborator in the service of the pilgrim, as well as to be able to win — once that pilgrim finishes Santiago's Way — a possible tourist to visit the places of the different municipalities that he liked most and can enjoy them longer than when he was doing the Way stage. These collaborations will also increase the quality and competitiveness of the various services provided to pilgrims, so the degree of satisfaction of the pilgrim will be higher, which would be good for maintaining the number of tourists. So, too, pilgrims could schedule and first know the establishments attached to this card throughout their route through Galicia, as can be the shelters — both public and private — rural tourism houses, pensions, hotels, shops, cultural activities, leisure, the typical restoration of each municipality, as well as fairs and samples of typical products. The Galician Union, as responsible, would have to hand over the pilgrim's card when each of the different routes started in Galicia, or in the first stage of entry into Galicia of each of the routes coming from other communities. And to finish, since it seems to us that your initiative is very little concrete, we present the amendment that the Government of Greece is urging to present in this House, within three months, a well-structured program of the implementation of the pilgrim's card, in which — as I said before — the councils, associations etc. are taken into account.; which indicates where and how it is achieved, who is responsible for its distribution, what funding will be and what the scope will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u262	Thank you, Mr. Pérez Seco. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mr Casal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u263	Good afternoon. I'm going to make a little introduction to people -- I don't know if there's gonna be a lot -- that might be seeing us online. Each parliamentary group can submit two non-legislative proposals at each plenary session, four a month. Do you really, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party see this proposal as an entity to occupy one of these four PNLs? Don't you have any more important things to present than a pilgrim's card? The rest of the groups today spoke of evictions, free textbooks, school lunches, corruption, etc. You propose to create a card for pilgrims to offer advantages that will pay others: they will pay the municipalities, they will pay transport companies, they will pay traders etc. Have you ever thought about how they're gonna make up for it? [[Murmurs.]] Is this really a matter of vital importance to bring to a plenary session of the Galician Parliament? It seems to us like a real occurrence. It's not the degree of a football game, even though it looks like it. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yeah, looks, looks. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It says the People's Party's GNP that this card aims to increase the quality and excellence of tourism services in order to achieve a more competitive and profitable offer. This with the card. The truth is that the tourist development strategy and excellence of tourist services have a great deal of sustainability with these kinds of initiatives. Is this really a star idea to encourage tourism? Meanwhile, Santiago's Way does not escape the privatizing strategy either. Mr. Florentino Pérez's share of his responsibilities as a public administration and uses the money of the Galician and the Greeks to profit from the commercial interests, among others, of Mr. Florentino Pérez; and he assists him — as if he were a gift — the 69 public shelters that appear as an indispensable support structure for pilgrims. This is important for pilgrims, travellers and tourists, and this is what they really don't want to talk about. They don't want to talk about why you directly assisted Mr. Florentino Pérez with the management of the 69 hostels in the Way of Santiago. From En Marea we defend our historical, cultural and natural heritage, which cannot live subject to the ability of the Union to manage from the public the shelters of the Way of Santiago. And if they don't know or can't and want to give in to the private initiative, at least take into account local authorities, non-profit companies, social economy companies in each of the people, who will certainly manage it much better than Mr. Florentino Pérez. It is necessary to reverse and recover the full public management of the hostel network, so that, in addition to giving good service to pilgrims, it cooperates in the economic development of the areas through which it takes place. This is important, and you won't worry about it, of course, Mr. Florentino Pérez. So we're introducing this replacement amendment. The resolution should be replaced by the following: "The Galician Parliament urges the Council of Galicia to carry out a specific plan for placing on value and fixing the population in the municipalities of the Jacobean route in Galicia, by creating an employment and dynamisation plan, with sufficient funding in the coming budgets, which also includes the recovery of direct public management of the currently outsourced services." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u264	Thank you, Mr. Casal. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u265	Thank you, Mr. President. We, Mr. Casal, do as you do, bring our electoral commitments to the House, in the same proportion as you, who have 14 Members, and we 41. Same ratio. [[Applause]] Just as I respect the initiatives that you put forward, even if they come from Madrid, from Pablo Iglesias or the compendium of the tides that they have, even if they are ordered in this way, you respect the initiatives that my parliamentary group presents, the first. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] One of the most important strategic sectors tells Galicia, with a developmental capacity, and to influence other sectors that have already been shown with all the figures I just presented. But that doesn't matter to you, because what you're interested in is that Galicia is bad enough to sell all the pamphlets that make you here today. [[Applause]] With regard to Mrs. Presas, it's curious that you talk about the loyalty of the tourist, when the BNG in 2015 lets the premium Galicia card die. There was no need for loyalty before, and today it is. And another thing because I understand that there are many beginners. I've also been a novice, and I feel that experience is important, but when amendments are presented to an initiative they have to do with the initiative. Because maybe you also want to take the package of initiatives from the People's Parliamentary Group. But no, it won't. The object of this initiative — I repeat, ladies and gentlemen — is the launch of this tourist loyalty card for the pilgrim, to offer a good welcome to pilgrims, to increase the average stay, to introduce products that may pass unnoticed, to increase the pilgrim's spending. It's not the development of any plan, as they're asking for the BNG and the Tides. I've already told you before we have strategies, we have plan, we have roadmap, which made it possible to bring Galicia more visitors than ever. Galicia reaches historic peaks and will beat records in 2016. Tourism has been strengthened as a strategic sector and is an international reference to the Way. BNG would also tell BNG that a specific strategic plan of the tourist offer in Santiago must lead the municipality. We expect the Town Hall of Santiago to get involved in the launch of this card. And we ask him to get involved in what the Way is supposed to be, starting with fixing the Way in his municipal term, so he doesn't have to tell you that the Galician Union is the only one who cares about tourism in Santiago. With regard to direct public management of outsourced services, tell you, Mr. Casal, if you do not know, that they have been outsourced since 1993 and therefore there is no need to recover anything. Not even when he ruled the BNG he recovered this service. That's right, what he did was he went from being free to being paid; that's the difference. This is a management that is very satisfactory for pilgrims, who highly value the quality offered by the network of pilgrims' shelters in the Galician Union. As far as amendments are concerned, of course we are not going to accept those of the Tide and BNG because nothing has to do with what is required, but we would accept that of the Socialist Group. But instead of being altered, Mr. Pérez, it will be added, if so, for good. Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u266	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. After we have finished the debate on non-legislative proposals, we proceed to the vote on them. We started by voting for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mrs Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo. Looks like the amendment was accepted. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the elaboration and approval by the Galician Board of Return Plan to encourage the return of young people emigrated, as well as their budget allocation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 35; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u267	We now vote on the proposals that have been debated in a cumulative way, in particular the one of the Galician Nationalist Block. Yeah? What do you want the word for? We understand, we have asked for a point vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You do not accept the point vote. We therefore vote as the non-legislative proposal is made. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Galicia to the Central Government and the actions to be carried out in connection with the processing of the Proposal for an Organic Law on the Transfer of Ownership and Skills of AP-9 to the Autonomous Community of Galicia, as well as the rescue of highways with public funds. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u268	We vote now... [[Murmurs.]] Please... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I didn't see him. No photos can be taken in the Chamber. You know that, I think all of your lords know that. If they don't know, I'll let them in. I haven't seen him now, but you can't take pictures in the Chamber. They can be done from above by journalists who are accredited, but they can't be done. We are now voting on the proposal from En Marea on the initiative of Mr Antón Sánchez García. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de En Marea, at the initiative of Mr.Antón Sánchez García and Mr. Marcos Cal Ogando, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in connection with the processing of the Bill passed by Parliament of Galicia concerning the transfer of ownership and management of the AP-9 motorway to the Council of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 73. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u269	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Luis Manuel Álvarez Martínez and Da María de la Concepción Burgo López, on the recovery by the Government of the free program of textbooks in all primary and compulsory secondary education courses. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u270	We are now voting for the Group of Parliament of En Marea on the initiative of Ms Luca Chao Pérez. The amendment was not accepted. We therefore vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Luca Chao Pérez and Da María de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda, on the recovery by the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary ordination of direct management of school dining rooms, as well as the action that must take to establish a single model of school dining for all Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 20; votes against, 39; abstentions, 14. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u271	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia on the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and four other Members. It seems that you have spoken by the People's Parliamentary Group that accepts the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Mr.Martín Fernández Prado and four other Members, on the development by the Galician Union of a green infrastructure strategy that creates a network of natural and semi-natural spaces. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 59; abstentions, 14. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u272	We now vote for the Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members. There was an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group that I don't know if it was accepted. Give a voice to Mr. Villoslada's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u273	There was no transaction. Let's keep the initial text.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u274	Thank you very much. We therefore vote on the text as formulated. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and two other Members, on the articulation by the Greek Government of the instruments and legislative amendments necessary to provide Galicia with an integral system of protection for persons who denounce practices of corruption, illegal and fraudulent. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-13-DSPG007.u275	Finally, we voted for the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms. Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández. The amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group was accepted as an addition, and those of the Nationalist Block Galego and En Marea were rejected. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Cristina Isabel Romero Fernández and five other Members, on the creation by the Government of Galicia of a card specifically directed to the pilgrims to Compostela that brings together different services of interest to them. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 53; votes against,14; abstentions, 6. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Good night.
