ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u1	Good morning. We resume the session, and before we do so, with questions to the president's turn, I'm telling them that for a mistake I did not justify yesterday the inattentive to Mrs. Monserrat Prado Cores for a health problem, to which we hope for a prompt recovery. And now we turn to questions for the president's oral answer. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Xoaquín Maria Fernández Leiceaga of G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the forecast of new measures to combat the demographic regression of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u2	Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u3	Good morning, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo. The demographic policy, in our opinion, is the main failure of conservative governments in Galicia; first by Mr. Manuel Fraga, and now by his own. We've been under 20,000 births for four years, rapidly approaching the smallest figure in the historical series. We're in one child per woman of fertile age, among the three regions with the lowest fertility in all of Europe, within which some demographics qualify as a very, very low fertility zone. We're in a clear demographic regression because of the natural fall of the population. Since 2013 we have beaten all records. There are 10,000 deaths more than were born in Galicia every year, and this figure is also growing negative. But the population also falls by emigration. In the last four years, Galicia's global external balance is always negative. More people are coming out of our country. As a result, and projecting towards the future, we'll be less, much less. The IGE, with this trajectory, wishes one million Greeks less within thirty-five years, one million Greeks less. And we're going to be bigger, much bigger, with an effect on health spending, on pension spending, on savings and investments, on productivity and the introduction of innovation. We were fundamentally in disagreement with the 2013 demographic revitalization plan because it seemed to us that the diagnosis was wrong. It seemed that the problem was of social mentality, and therefore therapy was ineffective. The priority was advertising campaigns to convince Galician families that they had more children. The main objective of this plan was to raise the synthetic fertility indicator up to the figure of 1.6 in 2020. But we're moving away from that figure instead of getting close to it. The reality is that families want to have two children and they have one, and that's this difference between desires and reality that needs to be filled. And it must be filled with effective policies of stability and improvement of working conditions, reconciliation of professional and family life, allocation of household tasks and availability of public services. There's a strong rhetoric in your government and ineffective policies. It prevails the electoral interest, with no effective results. And a policy must be judged by its results, not by its intentions. Enter "Welcome Card" this year but the number of births continues to be reduced. There are help policies in the IRPF but they only reach 0-3 years, are insufficient and are, in addition, socially weak and represent approximately 350 euros per family and year with children of 0-3 years. That's not enough. So, Mr President, do you plan to change your policies to make them more effective in combating demographic regression or do you intend to persist in ineffective rhetoric? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u4	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. The president of the board answered.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, ask me about the demographic regression. For this government and for the majority parliamentary group, demography is a problem of Galicia and a problem of country, structural. And I want to say hello to the Galician Socialist Party about demography, and that's why we don't understand or continue to understand that you are at the mercy of any consensus-based policy in the field of demography. We do not understand or understand why you rose from Parliament, from the Bureau of Parliament, when we were trying to implement demographic policies, and so we did in the demography plan in 2013. Anyway, I'm glad you're talking about demography again. Your Honor, if you want to be serious about this — and I have no doubt to think otherwise — you know that this is not a new problem, nor is it a problem that we are going to solve in the short term. This isn't a problem that affects two or three legislates. Why? Because it's been running for four decades, forty years. Your Honor, in the first debate of the state of autonomy that I have made president of the Union, back in 2010, I spoke about the problems of Galicia's demography. Why? Because we have been accumulating negative vegetative balances since 1988. Since 1988 the number of deaths exceeds the number of births. That is, in the last thirty years the number of births in Galicia is less than the number of deaths, and during the last thirty years there have been times of economic kindness, times of economic crisis, times of economic recession and times of economic kindness again. The balance is no different, Your Honor, when you ruled, when you were four years old. No, Your Honor, when you ruled, the balance between births and deaths was in 8,000 people -- more deaths -- and now it's about 10,000 people. So, ladies and gentlemen, we know perfectly well that's not the problem. The migration balance of what you're talking about is not true either, Your Honor, because in the entire period of recession and economic crisis we've been managing here between 2009 and 2015 the number of people who have come up against them is positive towards those who have entered 17,500 people. That is, during the crisis, during the recession, during the difficulties, in Galicia more than 17,500 people came in — between 2009 and 2015. I repeat the fact, Mr. Leicega, it's very easy to check. So, Your Honor, what we are working on is, within the autonomous framework, presenting the first Plan of Support for Christmas that existed in Galicia and, in the national framework, agreeing, lordship, dealing with autonomous communities that manage the socialists, agreeing with Asturias, agreeing with Estremadura, with Castela-León, with Cantabria, with Castela-A Mancha, with Rioxa and with Aragon. I'm sorry, Your Honor, that the Socialists of Asturias or the Socialists of Castela-La Mancha agree with us and you don't agree with us. Look, Your Honor, within the European framework you are claiming and proposing to the Commission that European funds should be set up from a demographic point of view. Your Honor, the theme of demography is raised in the Galician Strategic Plan, you should know. So when we're told that we don't take birth measures, can you tell me any government in Galicia that had taken more birth measures than this one? Throughout the history of the autonomous community, is there any government in the community, this Galicia, that had raised more tax deductions, more support for families, more kindergartens, more help for families to have children than this?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u6	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u7	Mr. Leicega, if you want to be serious, you know we're always at your disposal. I'm going to ask you a number of questions that unfortunately don't give me time on this shift. But, Mr. Leicega, by misrepresenting the data we're not going to get anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u9	I can assure you, nothing is going to happen by misrepresenting birth, mortality, deaths and families. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u10	Thank you. Mr. Fernández Leicega's reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u11	Finally, Mr President, I feel that you remain in rhetoric and falsehood. I did not speak of 2009-2016, I spoke of 2012-2015. In 2012-2015 we lost population every year. You're still in rhetoric. I don't judge your intentions, I judge your results. Are we losing population at higher rates than ever? Yes! Are people leaving Galicia in the last four years? Yes, every year. We have a negative balance on the exits in relation to the rest of Spain, a net balance, and a net balance with the outside, 2012-2015. That's right. In this sense, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, I think it would be much more effective than, if we agree with the diagnosis — and you say you are very concerned about this — we have made an effort to make policies more effective. I propose to change policies in two ways. First, in relation to family support, rather than electoral aid, dispersed, which are contingents, which appear as continents for citizenship, let's make an effort to integrate everything into a stable scheme that helps families with less resources who have children from 0 to 16 years old, who have a broad consensus and who present themselves to citizens as something that will remain. Because having children is a lifelong contract and therefore must not be subjected to electoral contingencies. And secondly, let's make an effort to promote quality employment. Look, I know that the job for Thursdays — which has fallen in 100,000 people since you've been president, 100,000 people!, 100,000 people busy — does not depend on you alone. But if it depends on you, in the 322C subprogramme, on job promotion, there was a very low execution in 2015 and also in 2016. It is up to you that the training program for the unemployed was not convened in 2016. It depends on you that the level of execution in the training programs for the unemployed and for the unemployed has been so low in these two years. That's your responsibility. And you reward Mr. Count with more occupations, when he's unable to diligently carry these policies and programs. So if you want to continue in rhetoric, it's your problem. We talk about evaluating public policies and changing those that are not effective to achieve results that we all seem to agree on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u12	Thank you, Mr. Fernández Leiceaga. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u13	Yes, Your Honor. I repeat that if you want to speak in Parliament about data, it is good that you say the right data. Why do you talk about more coming out or more coming in or that the vegetable balance is positive or negative? Do you know why, Your Honor? Because during the time of economic kindness immigrants entered Galicia and now they don't. Yes, exclusively, Your Honor. Exclusively, yes, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] During the time of economic kindness they entered between 23,000 and 26,000 immigrants in Galicia; and during the recession, the lordship entered between 9,000 and 11,000. So, Your Honor, what's happening in Galicia and Spain is that during the economic recession you left us there was no work for anyone, neither for the Spaniards nor for the immigrants. That's the big difference between the policies you leave and the difficulties we manage. Your Honor, that's the reality. The reality is that in 2015 -- they just came out of the data -- since you're talking about that period, Galicia's outputs were the lowest in Spain, 1.12%; and Spain's average is almost 2%. Yes, Your Honor, we're talking percentages, Your Honor, not in all. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't talk to me about these things, because if you don't, it makes me feel like you can't even really talk to yourself about economic terms. Mr. Leicega, don't confuse the quantitative with the qualitative. Look, Your Honor, Galicia is from the autonomous communities of which fewer young people have left this year — I am speaking in percentage terms — 2.23%; and the average of Spain is 3.31%. Your Honor, would you like me to tell you how many Thursdays they left Galicia in the last few years, and the year they left? In 2007, in 2007. Do you know why, Mr. Leicega? [[Murmurs.]] Because there was a lot of work in the rest of Spain, and that's why the Greeks could go out more easily to work in the rest of Spain. I'm talking about boys. Look, Your Honor, I reiterate that this government has managed times of difficulty, times of scarcity, times of economic recession, times of economic crisis, and throughout the period of economic recession, the number of people who entered Galicia is 17,500 more than they came out. Why don't you at least accept the actual data? Mr. Leicega, you want to talk about birth. I told you at first: welcome. Do you think the Welcome Card is a joke? Making it easier for babies in Greece to have 100 euros a month for their family-based needs does it seem to you that it's a minor issue? Why don't you consider yourself in other autonomous communities? Tax deductions look like children. The biggest ones in Spain! The biggest ones in Spain! Your Honor, we have children's school squares, 33%, the largest, the largest in the country. When we got to the government, it was 19%. There is good conciliation, Your Honor, for those boys who are sick. We're opening child nurseries, children's houses, in the villages. Does it seem to you that children born in villages have no right to have a foster home? [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, we're going to raise a very clear question. Look, there's the Galego Demographic Dynamics Observatory. Are you in favour of joining him as a political party? We want the Socialist Party and the rest of the political forces to join the Observatory. For what? So that, from that observatory, where are the trade union organizations, where are the universities, where is the Galician civil society, let's make a political, social and economic pact. And if we make that political, social and economic pact between the Galician society and the political parties, we can bring a law to Parliament, a law of demographic impulse.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u15	That's what I propose to you, Your Honor: to speak, to converge, to make a pact with Greek society and bring a law to move that pact. Your Honor, you are invited to speak seriously about demography. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, about its position regarding the defense of an economic concert for Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u17	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u18	Thank you very much. Mr. Feijóo, I am convinced that you will agree with me that the current funding system we have is a bad business for our country. It's a centralist, insolidary and unfair system. And why would we say that? So I wanted to summarize it in two figures: firstly, because with this system – which you have, by the way, signed – from its entry into force we have lost about 9,000 million euros; and secondly, because the state is making boxes with our country. In fact, if we take the tax balances, we'll see how every year the state raised in Galicia 3,000 million euros more than you've ever seen. The good news is that we have the possibility, and we are at the right time, to be able to change this situation. And that changing this unfair situation depends only on political will. We want to tell you very clearly: we don't think you have to go to Madrid to defend a model that doesn't serve our country. We believe you should be brave, defend an ambitious country proposal, in future, defend a proposal as an economic concert that allows us to take a real step forward in our self-government, shield public services and at the same time end that policy of blackmail and arbitrary decisions that the central government is making. Let me give you an example. Only a few days ago, the Central Government decided that every Welshman and every Galician we have to pay 50 euros to rescue some Madrid radials that are a ruin. At the same time, that central government says there's zero euros to rescue the Welsh and Welsh people from the AP-9 beaches. Does this seem fair to you? Not to us. We have just seen in the Congress of Deputies to Mrs Cospedal announce that it will increase military spending while there are major cuts in social policy. Does this seem fair to you? Not to us. For these are the things, Mr Feijóo, that we could change if we really had an economic concert. But I would also like today — if it doesn't sound bad — to introduce a reflection, and precisely to the thread of his words, some words that he spoke in Catalonia exactly a month ago. You said there: "It's not easy to explain that Catalonia is not given an economic concert when they have Basques and navarros. I agree." To me, Mr. Feijóo, it seems good to me that you are now defending an economic concert for Catalonia. What I have to tell you is that I don't think it's so good that you don't defend that same economic concert for Galicia. I don't know whether or not Catalans will eventually have independence. What I am absolutely convinced is that the central government, the Spanish state, will offer a concert to Catalonia. And this, Mr. Feijóo, puts you in a situation where we believe today you have to tell us something concrete. Will you continue to defend a concert in Catalonia and make the placard of denying Galicia the same economic concert? Will you be responsible for losing an opportunity, losing a new train, really shielding resources to improve the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks, and at the same time jumping ahead of giants in our self-government?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u20	I hope for your answer, and I hope that this humble spokesperson will not be responsible for all the evils of mankind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u22	Don't worry, Your Honor, that the responsible for all the evils of mankind — including the demographic problem — is me. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, Mrs Pontón, what I said in Barcelona — and I thank you for being very interested in what the president of the board says — I repeat it in the House. I said in Barcelona that Catalans, when we assumed the Constitution, didn't ask for the economic concert. I said that the independent approaches will remain independent with concert or without concert, whether it's symphonic or not. And I also said, Your Honor, that the financing system was agreed between the Catalan Generalitat and the Socialist Government of Spain. [[Laughter]] And I also said that we were tired of paying the interest in Catalonia's debt. That's all I said in Catalonia. And I said, of course, about the concerts that are perfectly democratic, ask them to do them. You're asking for it here. If the Catalans ask for a concert and the German nationalists, simulating, and with the follow-up planning of Catalonia, they also ask for it, what would you like me to do with it, Your Honor? Listen to them and try to convince them they're wrong. A few weeks ago, the Socialist Party spokesperson raised funding matters, and now you do it. And I thought a few weeks ago the same thing that I'm going to think of now. Look, funding issues can't be used to solve identity problems. These are not subjective issues, Your Honor, but to object to the costs of the public services that we provide to the autonomous communities. Secondly, we're not going to talk about territories in the funding system, we're going to talk about people, we're going to talk about older people, we're going to talk about children, we're going to talk about cities, we're going to talk about villages. And finally, Your Honor, I think that health should be considered from a separate piece point of view, since the autonomous communities invest in health care more than 40% of the total expenditure. So, Your Honor, what I'm going to do is defend Galicia's interests, so that the financing system is not the financing system that you were allowing, directly or indirectly, when they supported Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's government. Yes, Your Honor. I understand that you don't like history, but the story is there to learn from mistakes. I don't know if you'd back up the Socialist Party or not. I have no doubt, the answer would be yes. So let's think about an economic concert, which is what you're asking me. Your Honor, I don't think I don't defend the interests of the country. I don't think this is the worst business for Galicia. No, Your Honor, this is a bad deal for Galicia. There's no autonomic funding expert who agrees with an economic concert for Galicia. The Galician Economic Forum was doing a study weeks ago where I thought we would lose at least EUR 1 billion a year. Yes, Your Honor. Other studies speak of more than 3% of GDP, more than 2,000 million euros of loss each year. Your Honor, even Mr. Leicega suggests that the economic concert is a bad business for Galicia. So, Mrs. Pontón, why are you asking me a concert for Galicia? Because nationalists always think the same thing, interest or not interested in their country. Look, Your Honor, you're not going to stop being a nationalist because you don't propose an economic concert, you can still be a nationalist and propose a smart proposal, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u24	What are you saying to me, don't you go to the Conference of Presidents? Are you suggesting that, like the legendary and the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia, Galicia does not go to the Conference of Presidents to talk about the financing system? Mrs. Pontón, it's not a question, it's just a reflection. Mrs. Pontón, don't ask me not to defend Galician interests, I will never do so. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u26	Mr. Feijóo, I am glad that today, at least in this first intervention, I have not been accused of being responsible for all the problems. I'm sorry about your bad memory. The Galician Nationalist Block did not support the current financing system in the Courts. And if you went forward with a system that is ruinous to Galicia was because the People's Party loved and accepted this system, although you knew — and you were perfectly aware — that would lead us to economic insufficiency. Because in this system the cost of services is not being financed, it's fake. This is a system that also makes us very expensive to this country. You influence again and again on a thesis that is lethal to Galicia: that Galicia is not able to pay for its public services by itself. Are you telling the Greeks and the Greeks that our health, education and dependence don't pay for it with their taxes, that they pay for it from Madrid? That's an absolute falsehood. Look, Mr Feijóo, these are data that have to do with the state's tax settlement, official state data, and what we're told is that the state raised in our country is more than EUR 11,000 million — the latest official data — and what we receive through the financing of the autonomic system does not exceed 7,000. Do you think this is a good business for Galicia or really, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, is there a very important margin of resources, of taxes, that are paying the Greeks and Greeks that don't revert to an improvement in our public services? But, look, Mr. Feijóo, what it would be good for you to hear your lecture again in Catalonia. I did, and here's the literal transcription of what you said in Catalonia. He said, "Look, on the subject of the concert, a Galician nationalist will want an economic concert for Galicia, and if you hear it as you calculate it, there will be a very interesting debate." Why does he say that in Catalonia and he comes to Galicia and now tells us that this isn't a debate, that's a bad option? You really don't follow us from Catalonia, you follow us from Madrid. And so we go to the Greeks and the Greeks, that we lose positions every time. But you accepted at that conference that it was logical that Catalonia had an economic concert, and I ask you the same question again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u28	Why does it seem good to you that Catalans have an economic concert and yet deny us that possibility for the Greeks and the Greeks?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u29	Cats, Mrs. Pontón. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u30	Thank you very much. Mrs. Pontón, I appreciate you hearing what I'm saying, but I'd like you to hear it completely. And that's why I'm surprised that you now thought to me here that I'm in favor of a concert for Catalonia. Look, Your Honor, why don't you let me be the author of my own thoughts? Now it turns out, Your Honor, that the concert for Galicia is good. All the German economists are confused with you. Everyone who does the calculations is confused, you're not. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because you have to propose a concert since the nationalist approach, because you think that to be a nationalist, you have to have a concert, and if you're not in favour of the concert, you're a centralist. It's the usual one, Your Honor, but you keep insisting and persisting, you keep insisting and persisting not to the Spanish Constitution. But if you don't believe in the concept of country! They don't believe in the concept of the state, they don't believe in the state of autonomy, you don't believe in the European Union, you don't believe in the international treaties we have signed, you don't believe in anything, and consequently I don't care or worry about you persisting in your mistake. What surprises me is that in the 21st century smart nationalists set up a very bad business for the country. And I will not fall into that temptation, Your Honor. I know you were against the funding system that Government Zapatero proposed, but they were ruling with him. Yes, Your Honor, they ruled with him, Your Honor, and supported the government of Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, Your Honor, and gave support here and in Madrid. [[Murmurs.]] I never supported that government, criticized it from the opposition and from the government. And that's why I feel free to say, Your Honor, that I will continue to defend Galicia's interests. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, we're not going to subject the reformulation of autonomous funding to a discussion of flags, feelings or emotions. That's not the point, Your Honor. The question is that a chair prosthesis is worth the same in Catalonia as in Santiago. And the question, Your Honor, is that an elder has the right to the law of dependence equal in Zafra than in Ortigueira. Your Honor, that's what I'm going to defend. What I'm going to defend is that the aging of the population has to weigh on funding, and that the dispersion of the population is an unquestionable objective calculation for that calculation to be worth this objective fact. Your Honor, I am not going to propose a different electric tariff saying that in Galicia we have to pay one thing and in the rest of Spain we are going to pay another. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because I don't want you to laugh at us; mainly for that, Your Honor. And because you don't properly calculate Galician electrical costs, you don't calculate them or you're interested in them. Look, Your Honor, Spain is not a centralist country, the center of power is not in Madrid, nor can it be in Madrid and Barcelona. There are eighteen power centers here: each and every one of the autonomous communities and the central government. We're eighteen, Your Honor, and that's why I'm going to defend the part that belongs to us. Your Honor, ambitious dialogue? Yes. Loyal dialogue? You too. Dialogue in defence of Galicia's interests? You too. He hasn't told me yet whether it would be right for him to go to the Conference of Presidents. It's just that the nationalists don't go. And therefore, as the nationalists don't go, the BNG also proposes that I don't go. Also, Your Honor, I will defend Galicia's interests, now and always.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u31	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u32	Don't ask me to do bad business for Galicia. The worst businesses for Galicia I'll leave them to the Galician Nationalist Block. Anything else, thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Luis Villares Naveira, G.P. of En Marea, about the measures he intends to implement the Greek Government in the face of the social drama of violence and macho killings
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u34	Question by Mr Luis Villares Naveira of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u35	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. Núñez, Machism fights equally, because there is a causal relationship between Machism and inequality. Because there is a causal relationship between a situation of violence against women as an extreme manifestation of a situation of inequality in society at the educational, cultural, social and economic levels. So the fight against machismo, against gender-based violence, the fight, ultimately, against all forms of violence against women, is first of all a struggle for equality, a fight for equality, an effective equality between women and men. That's why In Marea this week formulated its intervention in Parliament's plenary in a monographic way in favour of equality, a positive formulation of equality policies that seek to improve effective legislation, improve public policies in the field of education, health, in the field of work, in the field of care benefits; that are all aimed at seeking a more solidarity society, a more just society, a more equal society between women and men. We carried out this intervention after a long process of listening and collaboration with institutions, with feminist groups, with groups of women victims of gender-based violence, which in many cases what we were told was that there was no bad legislation at this time approved, legislation is acceptable, the problem is that it is not done. There's a declaration of rights on paper, but then it's not met, there's no means to comply with that legislation, there's no administrative development, there's no administrative instructions that develop laws that are formally approved but that lack real content and impact on society. And that's what worries people today who are directly affected by the problems, those who suffer violence and all the women, who are still in a situation of inequality. We believe that this situation of inequality needs to be compensated for by positive actions. Faced with the proclamation of formal equality, it is necessary to move towards real equality, towards a situation of real equality of opportunities, which is being fought in a positive manner, acting in a positive manner and developing the legislation that today formally proclaims those rights that exist on the role but that do not exist in reality, with policies for equality that act in two fields: the preventive field and the palliative field. We were interested this week, especially in the area of prevention, because it is education that ends with machismo, because it is health policies, because it is wage policy, because it is wage equality, the ones that end with machismo. Equality policies avoid the evil of Machism. That's why the question had to be this necessarily, it had to be the reflection of the inadequacy of the means being put, in relation to the existing legislation, to establish policies of effective equality. In the 2017 budgets, in heading 313B, on women's equality, protection and promotion policies, we see with concern how in the evolution of all governments, from 2009 to 2016, a reduction has occurred in relation to those sections of 77.8%. That is why, in view of the situation that is still seen today of inequality between women and men, our question is whether we think — within this policy of budgets and within the process that is still taking place — of increasing the stakes in order to effectively enforce the prevailing legislation on equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u36	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Villares, before the tides and we could be in this Parliament we talked about equality, we legislate on equality, we agreed on equality, we had assumptions about equality. So, Your Honor, believe me that you didn't start equality. Look, I think, in any case, what this is about today is to start by showing our solidarity, the solidarity of the people of Galicia, the solidarity of this Parliament, the solidarity of the majority parliamentary group and of all of the House, and of course the Government of the Union, with the families of Ana and Elena, who were brutally murdered a few days ago in Galicia. So, Your Honor, we're talking about killings of extreme macho violence as a result of death. We're talking, therefore, about a gang that I think should fight, not politicize. And we are talking, Your Honor, that the awareness of all is essential; of course, of all public administrations; of course, of the forces and bodies of security of the state; of course, of the judiciary; of course, of all political parties, of all the media, of all the Greek society, without any limit. I believe that in the political sphere it is possible to agree on ways to fight murders, which is to share the rejection of conduct and to be supportive and consistent with this. There is a social awareness, but we will have to reiterate the call to all citizens of Galicia because this is not a problem among women, this is a problem of the whole of Galician society. This is not a problem for women, Your Honor, this is a problem for the whole of Galician society, and the Greek society is next to all women who may suffer some kind of harassment, verbal or non-verbal, even any kind of outcome. Your Honor, let's keep working on this. [[Applause]] And I want to tell them, all the Greek women, who are not alone, that we are all, absolutely all, with them. Everyone, Your Honor, the whole society is with the Greek women. Your Honor, we have carried over 36,800 complaints, we have carried over 6,000 orders of protection — which are the ones granted by the judges — and we have welcomed people and the first centre for the recovery of victims of gender-based violence is open. We're helping over 2,500 victims of gender-based violence, we're trying to insert more than 564 women who are victims of gender-based violence in the workplace, with psychological attention to all the women who demand it, and of course also to their children and, of course, also to the men who are willing to abandon that absolutely criminal and excruciable conduct. We're, Your Honor, with 24-hour legal attention, we're on a phone -- 016 -- which I want to make available again to all citizens, because that phone can save a lot of lives. Your Honor, we are at the Galego Observatory against Gender Violence, created in this legislation, just like the Recovery Centre. And in the prevention of the education system, for the first time in the public education system, we have content on it. Your Honor, we will be setting a bad example if we throw unfair reproach among ourselves. Of course, I'm not gonna do it, it would seem like a waste of time. But if I say one thing, let's report without fear, let's report any kind of suspicion. Last Thursday in Vigo two neighbors reported possible harassment in the neighboring homes where they lived. Immediately if the police were detained, they were immediately arrested and placed at the court's disposal. We all denounce, Your Honor, not only women, but all of us who have some kind of direct or indirect information.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u38	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u39	That, in my opinion, is what we have to do, Mr. Villares. Of course we can talk about what you want, but check the budget carefully and you'll see that you're in a mistake. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Villares.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u41	Mr Feijóo, reviewing the budget — as you recommend — in heading 313B and 313D, which are respectively actions for the equality and protection and promotion of women, and the protection and support of women who suffer from gender violence, in the 2009 budget were 34 million euros and in the 2017 project is 12 million euros. The negative variation is 64% less, that's my budget review made according to your own budgets since you manage them. Then, there you have, on your last reflection, my first assessment. Rating is negative. Because, given the situation of inequality that we live in today's society, I can't live up to it. In Marea, it can't conform to that economic translation of its policies of equality. Because finally here, when we talk about commitment, we also have to talk about budgets. Because we're in the House that approves the budgets that then make public policies. And if we pass laws without economic content and they don't develop because of a lack of budget, it's like we don't approve anything. Because we have a role, and even if the role forbids poverty, it does not take people away from the poor. And although the role proclaims equality, equality without active policies of positive discrimination does not remove women from unequal and does not eradicate male violence. Because active policies are necessary to combat it, and that's what we're asking you to do. And that's why, even with all your reply, we welcome your offer and say, well, let's talk about 2017 budgets, talk about and negotiate amendments to increase these matches. The concrete shares of actions for equality, protection and promotion of women in seven years ranged from 31 million euros to 6.9 million euros, a 77% reduction. We are talking about prevention policies because they are equality policies. The more equality, the less machismo, the less fear equality for women in this society. That is why it is necessary to invest in equality, so it is necessary to take steps forward which also mean budgetary commitment. We know that we have the capacity to influence the Government and we know that you have recently announced measures that are palliative in the face of violence. We want these measures to continue, but we want, above all, preventive measures, which really affect the causes of inequality, the causes of this machismo, of that structural patriarchate that exists in Greek society, as in the rest of contemporary societies, may disappear. That's what we demand. Concepción Arenal used to say it's been on its way for two centuries: "Open schools and they'll close prisons." That is what we want, the value of education, the value of equality, the value of respect, which is done through public policies that require budgetary commitment that we do not see. Make it enforce the law by developing public policies that are also budgeted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u42	Thank you, Mr. Villares. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u43	Mr. Villares, I'd like you to review the budget again. Yes, Your Honor, but what happens is that we have to study the budget of previous years. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] When you compare budgets to other years, do you know that in other years equality policies were included, for example, in children's school matches? Were the children's check matches included? Were allowances for children under 3 years of age included? Mr. Villares, why didn't you know? Did you know that? [[Mr. Villares Naveira pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Then he lied to us, Mr. Villares. If you knew it and said that budgets are comparable, you lied to us, and I think you shouldn't lie to the House, Your Honor, because you're making absolutely heterogeneous comparisons. [[Laughter]] We are the autonomous community that has invested most in infantry schools, lordship; the community that has most tax deductions for children, lordship; we are the autonomous community that we can assume not of results but of commitments to birth. And, therefore, equality policies, macho policies, you can refer to a broad concept or to a real and effective concept. Look, Your Honor, let's keep talking about budgets. Do you know that budgets for the General Secretariat of Equality amount to 31% this year? Do you know, Your Honor, that we have increased the financial aid for women who are victims of gender-based violence by 60%? And do you know that 23% of the psychological care programs go up? Your Honor, we're investing the same thing as when we had two billion euros more budget. Therefore, Your Honor, this government and this group that supports the Government are investing more in equality policies in relation to its budget than any other government in the country, at any time and at any time in the Statute. Therefore, Mr. Villares, I suppose you said you were joking that you knew it, because if you knew that you were making a false comparison and making it a conscience, Your Honor, this has a definition, that I'm going to skip. Look, Your Honor, when you talk about a parliamentary group devoting a percentage of the budget to equality policies in Aragon, where you rule... [[Murmurs.]] But, Your Honor, if you sit next to the people of Podemos, how come they don't rule in Aragon?-- [[Laughter]] But, Mr. Villares, is it now that you turn out to be a fallen politician from heaven who has nothing to do with getting his seats? Look, in Aragon, you dedicate 0.06, and in Valencia, 0.08, and in Galicia, 0.17. Are we proud of that? No, no, no, no. But that we invest more than to rule where you are or support, yes. Mr. Villares, let's keep working, that's what I'm proposing, let's keep working. We are going to be the first autonomous community in Spain to regulate specific training on equality for the staff of the Galician Union. We are the first or the first autonomous communities to have an equal training course in the field of compulsory education. And now we're doing an institutional coordination protocol at the Gender Violence Observatory. For what? Well, a roadmap, Your Honor, to establish personalized and specialized attention to victims of gender-based violence. You see, Your Honor, that we're trying to work, but I'm always going to ask you. Look, let's get all society involved. And that number 016 is a permanent, constant, twenty-four-hour backup. In the face of any doubt, in the face of any suspicion, we denounce, Your Honor. We denounce that a neighbor may be subjected to ill-treatment at home; we denounce that a workmate may be subjected to ill-treatment or a superior or a partner; we denounce, Your Honor, any circumstance, any attitude, because this will activate the rule of law.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u45	Mr. Villares, let's report, because this is absolutely unbearable. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the third point of the agenda. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and five other Members, on the development by the Government of Galicia of an integral strategy for the returned Greeks, for the period 2017-2020, with the participation of their representative associations and the Greek communities abroad
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u47	This non-legislation proposal was amended by the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u48	Mr. Díaz Villoslada has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In the last investment debate on 8 November, the President of the Galician Council said in his speech that one of his priorities for government in immigration would be to facilitate the return of those who had to emigrate the cause of the economic crisis in recent years. He pointed out that the actions to promote return would also be aimed at the descendants of immigrants and at trying to attract the second and third generation Greeks that are residing in the countries where the Greeks traditionally emigrated. In his speech, Mr. Núñez Feijóo believed that the promotion of return would help reverse the demographic fall that strongly affects Galicia. The return of these Greeks from Argentina, Uruguay, Cuba or Venezuela would also help revitalize our society and fill Galicia with new blood that drives us in the coming decade — it was said euphoricly in that investment speech. But reality, the day-to-day life of many of the returned Greek immigrants is quite different, and -- we could say -- palmically opposed to the grandiose intentions of the investment speech. The different platforms and associations that group and defend rights and also the desires of the emigrants who return or who wish to return are publicly expressing and expressing the lack of support and sensitivity enough to meet their needs. This problem, logically, affects more emigrants who have less training and resources, and advanced age is also an obstacle to being able to react to the obstacles they face, a situation that has necessarily worsened during the current period of crisis not only economic but also social and rights. Just mention a whole series of problems that are denouncing returned emigration to be aware that the rights and needs of the Greeks who can return to Galicia are met in a very insufficient way. If this is so, no less serious are the prospects of those who have gone out to other countries during this crisis in search of better opportunities, especially young people and girls. The scenario offered to them by central and autonomous governments in Galicia does not exactly allow us to think about the return. First, for example, the continuing tax agency campaigns demanding the retroactive regularization of the IRPF of pensions collected in the countries in which they emigrated, without complying with repeated judgments which observe possible cases of double taxation by virtue of bilateral agreements in Galicia. It is a paradigmatic case that has been systematically omitted by the Tax Agency from the judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia concerning subsidies from Germany under the corresponding bilateral agreement signed with that country by Spain. The Festha Technician Union itself has recently denounced this situation in a literal way and commented on it or another day: "Hacienda pursues migrants and does not put the same effort into large fraud bags." For example, the cuts in health care rights, caused by Royal Decree No. 16/2012, have broken the principle of universality of the system, which we have also recently denounced in the Health Commission. The problems of access to residences for older persons, or the processing of aid linked to the Dependency Act. The situation also of returned Welsh immigrants from Venezuela who are not receiving the pensions they receive from that country under the corresponding bilateral convention and which makes social security in many cases withdrawing the supplements to a minimum, despite also the judgments being handed down by the courts of the social community against this practice. A paradigmatic case of this absolute lack of sensitivity to returned emigration, or, as we insist many times that I would like to return, because the Government's inaction to resolve with Norway the return of the unduly charged rates to the large number of Greek sailors who had embarked on the merchants of that country in the 1960s and 1990s and which we have also repeatedly denounced in this House. And we don't know or have detailed information, although it may be a minor issue — but it isn't — about whether the embargoes agreed on this autumn by Argentina's justice on the bank accounts of the Galician Council Delegation in Bos Aires have in some way affected the services that are provided to the Welsh residents there. The Greek immigrants, both returnees and those who remain in their host countries, are neither second-born, fiscal nor social citizens. They are subject to duty, yes, but, above all, they are subject to full rights as well. The policies addressed to our emigration must, moreover, focus on the necessary sensitivity and be coordinated so that the fact of emigration, by itself a burden, does not entail a violation of their citizens' rights. And in this area, of civil rights and political rights, we have to point out the recent reports of the Central Electoral Unit, the report of November 16, or the European Parliament itself, which urged Spain a few weeks ago to substantially improve the external voting procedure, which has fallen from 30% in the general elections of 2008 to at least 5% of this year 2016, although this is a matter which by its particular relevance deserves a specific debate that will surely address this House. Some of these axes point, though only in a very enunciative way, to the own document of the Greek external action strategy that is currently in the process of information and public participation. But it is necessary to deepen these keys and, above all, to make the corresponding decisions without further delay. If, in addition, we want to bring back the young people who in these years of crisis have formed a new wave of emigration, the policies that develop have not only to guarantee an equalization of rights but also to offer real opportunities for employment, housing, health, ultimately a list of rights that will facilitate the return to those who want to return to their land. And we don't want to be at all catastrophic, as sometimes we want to be moved; on the contrary, to be aware of everyday problems, to formulate solutions, to allocate resources, and precisely what citizens need and demand of political action, and in this case what the Greek immigrants demand and demand of the Greek Government. Let's remember a fact that's also recent. According to the latest INE immigration statistics, 4,212 people emigrated from Galicia in 2012, but in 2015 they grew to 6,286, placing our Autonomous Community in the fifth place of this worrying ranking during the first half of 2016. I said that because I was drawn to some reference to these migration balance data that were made at the previous presence of the president. INE data is obvious. And let us also bear in mind that the migration balance in Spain in the first half of 2016 is already beginning to be positive, and Galicia's situation is not exactly this. For this reason, our group is presenting the necessary amendments to the 2017 autonomous budgets for a substantial increase in immigration programs, thus strengthening the policies of aid in the face of the situations of deprotection, employment, self-employment, as well as, with special intensity, the policies of return and capture and recovery of emigrant talent, of emigrant youth. We have, of course, good examples of new comprehensive strategies for returned emigration, and Andalusia is one of them precisely, a community that, by the way, deserves the utmost respect and solidarity of all groups of this House. What is the strategy of the Greek Government precisely during this new mandate to encourage the return of the Greek migrants to full rights? In this sense, precisely, and trusting with the previous appearance of the President the instance of the question from our spokesperson, the issues that we are asking about in the area of emigration have an intense impact not only on those of birth, by the way, on the keys to demographics and the great problem that we have in Galicia. In this sense, we also want to present this non-law proposal, urging the Government of Galicia to develop a specific comprehensive strategy for this mandate, for the period 2017-2020, for the returned Greeks, with the full participation of the associations that represent them and the Greek communities abroad, being an ever-main axis of this strategy the policies that promote the return of girls and boys. I want to thank you for your attention, and I would particularly like to thank you for the presence of representatives of associations defending the rights of returned Greek immigrants. Thank you very much and nothing more, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u50	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Intervention of the groups. Parliamentary Group of En Marea, Mrs Chao.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u51	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, rightly they say that the human being is the only one who stumbles twice with the same stone, or three or four or those who fail. This is especially the case with the ministers and ministers of the People's Party, who, after marveling at the concept of external mobility, came the Minister of Foreign Affairs and spoke about that emigration enriches, opens the mind and strengthens social skills. It seems like he was talking about real Fhilleas Fogg who changed the balloon trips for you low cost in Ryanair, because, of course, in a country where work remains, wages are still growing and youth is independent with twenty-five years old, it would have to be real adventurers and adventurers to pick up the suitcases, leave everything behind and go to discover the world; that is to be a millionaire, as was the character of Julio Verne's novel. That's the country I imagine the Foreign Minister speaks of. Unfortunately, it has little to do with the country in which we live the common people and much less with the reality that migrants live. We could talk, for example, about the reality of the au pair. Same in this room this word is quite unknown. I'm talking about a reality that I imagine you'll know. It affects women above all. A clear example of the sexist division of work that leaves for us the invisible economy of care. The au pair are the current version of the internal assistants; in fact, they have nothing new; already in the bourgeois houses of the 19th century in Paris girls from provinces were hired, which were then replaced in the 1950s by Spanish immigrant women. Like that, we're talking about invisible jobs, often carried out without documents or rights and under clearly abusive conditions. And no, we don't say it, it's not En Marea's catastrophic speech, but it's what the European Union says in a recent report on the subject. So yes, fifty years later to return to one of the saddest chapters of our recent history. Well, you can call it wealth and scope of sight. For us this is called exploitation, it's called precariousness and inequality, it's called lack of expectations and it's called failure of its neoliberal model and its policies. I'm sorry the president isn't here anymore, I'd like to; I was thinking, "God!, he'll stay." Because I would like to explain to you that the figures he insists on are clearly insufficient. I'm not saying it, the experts, that they say we should multiply up to five the INE figures. So insisting on using those figures is a joke. The reality — you know it well — does not lie in figures that intentionally prevent a real drama for the families of this country. Ignorance or ridicule, depends on who. We could ask, for example, the mothers and parents of the thousands of boys and girls who had to leave from the beginning of the crisis; it's easy to see them these days at the airports; they could get closer. They could also ask the families who have empty chairs on this Christmas, who are trying to supply calls for Skype. Grandparents and grandparents who count the days that will take time to hug their grandchildren again and who do not know how long they will have to wait again. All the people who are far away and have not been able to gather the money to come back this Christmas or have to work on these dates. I hope you think of all of them before you vote on your proposal. For you, this isn't just a tragedy, but I don't think it would be so much to ask you to understand that, before you speak, besides political leaders, who must be rigorous with the figures, you should have a minimum of empathy for the people who suffer, who have your family divided on these Christmas days, and who you abuse when you insist on underestimating their reality. Thousands of people driven out by austerity policies, who leave them only three vital options: unemployment, precariousness or emigration, and which unfortunately are not even three exclusive options. They insist on error and also insist on the use of euphemisms to avoid calling things as they are. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it's not initiative, it's necessity; it's not worry, it's despair; and of course it's not about looking for new horizons, but we're talking about people who have been forced to emigrate to find a worthy life that they've been prevented here. And what does the Government do about this situation? Well, to draw the breast of a budgeted return program in 150,000 euros this year, and what you think benefited from is three hundred people, three hundred people. I had to check the video from the previous plenary to make sure I didn't make a mistake noting the figure, because I felt that in five years three hundred people returned after that, with the already commented ridiculous INE figures, walked two hundred thousand or that there were eighteen people benefiting from the entrepreneurship subsidies, I felt excessive even to Mr. Tellado. Or are they telling us they don't care or assume with total tranquility their own incapacity? For us it is clearly insufficient. From Marea we will continue to work to make this a country of which people don't have to go and be a place to which our people want and above all can return. That's why we will vote "yes" to the non-legislative proposal of the PSdEG, and we are presenting an amendment to addendum to take the necessary measures to remove obstacles that make it difficult for the returnees to access to existing employment grants, benefits and social benefits, so that all their social rights can be restored without being required a minimum period of residence, because for the Marea rights do not understand where they live.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Chao. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mr Bará.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u53	Good morning. It seems that this matter is not of much interest to the Government, given the horrendous absence in the ranks of the blue bank, and in the majority group, because it seems that no part of the guard group remained here either, but there is no very large attendance either. As far as the Socialist Group's proposal is concerned, the BNG Group is going to vote in favour, although it seems to us a bit diffuse. The explanatory statement refers to various types of emigration, very diverse realities: historical emigration to Latin American countries on the one hand, immigration to Europe in the second half of the 20th century, youth emigration, the most current, specifically youth, which are complex, diverse realities, which also require different solutions and in which it is important to establish in some way also priorities, articulate answers to specific realities and problems such as, for example, that of sailors in Norwegian ships who claim what is fair, the collection of their pensions, and who need clear and powerful support from the Government of the State to claim their rights before the courts, since the Norwegian Government does not accept their claim before the Norwegian courts and the European courts, and these sailors, who are in their majority, 90%, the citizens of the state, are left to their fate because they do not rely on the support of the Government of the state and the Welsh Government. Or the case of double taxation of the pensions of returned emigrants, which is another very clear injustice and which also requires a solution by the Government of the State of the People's Party, if necessary the necessary legal reforms. There have already been agreements in this respect in both the German and the state Parliament. And it also needs the pressure of the Government of Greece to take these measures. We want this infamous fiscal persecution to be brought to an end by returned Welsh immigrants, who are subjected to this fiscal persecution at the same time as a scandalous fiscal amnesty for convicted fraudsters. Or we see how they have tax treatment big corporations that choose where they should pay their taxes, that is, in which tax paradise they should pay their taxes — yes, all very legal, all very indecent —. It is also necessary to deal with solutions for the situation of historical emigration, especially Latin American countries, which require different situations as well — different solutions, in terms of social benefit, assistance benefits, to promote the return of the second and third generation, with active labour integration policies, of course shared, better equipped than those you have in your budget, because since then with EUR 150,000 is not enough, it is not clear enough. And then there's the topic of current youth migration, which has characteristics of genuine national drama and which must of course be a priority in this legislation, for its economic impact, for its social impact, for its demographic impact, because it has excessively high costs for our country. There's a study of the Youth Council that amounts to €5,400 million for the cost of youth emigration to Galicia over the next ten years, and that's something we can't afford from now on. With these forecasts, as has already been said in this full of demographic developments, since then for Galicia, which plans to lose 230,000 inhabitants in 15 years, is a reduction of 45% of the population between 30 and 39 years. It's a drama of course. These IGE forecasts destroy that slogan that gave us in full investment when Mr. Feijóo said that Galicia with the policies of the People's Party would be the best place to be born; of course, these forecasts of the future destroy those propaganda announcements of the People's Party. So what we have asked for since the BNG and we want it to be implemented too — and we have already done so by means of a concrete proposal, of the Return Plan — is that we have the means, 1% of the budget — and we will also make our amendments in that sense, the economic allocation for the promotion of policies to promote the return of young people so that they have the potential for employment integration into the world of research, into our productive sectors, and also with measures to support entrepreneurship or housing policies. We therefore support the Socialist Group's proposal, although we understand that it is very diffuse, that it mixes very diverse realities and that it will have to be realized in any case afterwards, in case it is adopted, with a set of joint measures and where there are clearly priorities and above all they provide economic start-ups in order to be able to solve and face with guarantees this very serious social and national problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u54	Thank you, Mr Bará. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all Members and Members. Good morning to the representatives of the associations of Greek immigrants. Mr. Díaz, indeed, as you assure in your initiative and also in your intervention right now, the return of immigrants is a priority for the Greek Government. And it's a priority that not only looks at the intervention of the President of the Union, it's a priority that is being expressed in the budgets of the Union for 2017, which we are currently working on in this Parliament. Specifically, if we talk about departures, I would like to say that the departure of the General Secretariat of Emigration for 2017 exceeds 8.7 million euros. Because if we talk about figures, because policies are implemented with budgets, we have to specify that it is 8.7 million euros the budget for the General Secretariat of Immigration for 2017. What does this translate into? Well, it translates into more resources for people, for immigrant Greeks, and it translates into more resources for the Greeks who want to return. And what do you ask for in this initiative? You're asking for the Galician Union to develop an integral strategy for returned Greeks. But do you know that Galicia already has an immigration and return plan, specifically for the period 2014-2016? Do you know that Galicia has a plan to ensure care, to guarantee assistance and to ensure protection for the Greek residents abroad? Do you know that the Galician Union has a plan to encourage the return of those people who want to return to Galicia? Do you know that this plan has an budget of more than twenty-five million euros? Do you know that this plan has been agreed with the Delegate Commission of the Council of the Galician Communities, which is the highest body of representation established in the diaspora? And in addition to this plan that ends now in 2016, the second plan, from the 2017-2019 period, will be presented at the beginning of next year; it is now finished, it is already negotiated, it is already planned. And if we talk about measures, we can talk, and if we talk about young people, we can talk about these scholarships, a new performance that triggers the Galician Union to encourage young people living abroad to come to study Galicia and stay in Galicia. For that, what does Galician Union do? It sets in motion scholarships that will cover travel expenses, tuition expenses, housing costs and maintenance expenses, in order to ensure their stay in the territory of Galicia once they finish their studies. And besides, when they finish their studies, this program elaborates a custom itinerary for each of these young men and girls for their work placement in Galician companies. This is if we talk about the boys. If we talk about economic aid for immigrants, we have specific help to address situations of precariousness, not only for the Greek immigrants who want to return, but for the Greeks who are currently living in immigration. Because we know that there are countries that have little or no social protection and health protection, and Galicia and the Greek Government are with them, with an investment of two million euros to be able to help them at that time. And it's a budget with which every year 8,000 Greek families abroad with difficulties can improve their social and health benefits thanks to these aids. And there's help for self-employment and business creation for those Greeks who want to return, and there's extraordinary, urgent help for those Greeks who come back and have to cope with the expenses of their return. In addition, the Union reinforces support for the Greek communities abroad, with an budget of EUR 1.6 million, for social services, for health services in countries with very limited or non-existent coverage. Therefore, we are talking about Galicia having an integral plan of emigration and return; that Galicia has an budget, specifically the General Secretariat of Emigration, of twenty-five million euros; that Galicia has specific measures to meet and support our Greeks abroad, but also to support the Greeks who want to return to Galicia; that we have measures for the young to return to Galicia; and that it has budget to support. I'm just going to ask you one thing before you finish: don't do demagogy with health care, don't do it, health care is a very serious thing, returned emigrants have health care, return to Galicia and have all the rights of universal health care, and they're having it, and those Greeks who return temporarily have also insured health care, and they've also insured health care for migrant persons in an irregular situation. So, with health, don't manipulate, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Arias. Author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Díaz Villoslada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u57	Thank you again, Mr. President. With regard to the intervention of the groups, by order of intervention, I would like to thank the support that is being provided by both the En Marea Group and the BNG Group. We understand that the amendment to the addition of the En Marea Group is perfectly incorporated into our non-legislative proposal. And it's true that on the subject, the problem au pair could talk a lot about when are the exit situations of that spoken enrichment by the minister and exit really looking out for employment in an absolutely focused way on women. I would also like to thank you for the support you will receive from BNG. The only thing I would like to need is that the intention was not to present precisely a diffuse proposal, but rather a glutinating proposal for a set of problems that are coming to us from different platforms of returned emigration, to make us see in this House that if there is a need to address in an integral way the whole problem of emigration, without prejudice, of course, that each of these issues that are being formulated require specific initiatives, that we have already presented or presented in relation to both the IRPF and the Norwegian problem, as well as the lack of pension payments to returnees from Venezuela, and so on, and of course, on the matter of external voting, that we will have to deal with this issue. That's why the intention was to bring together a number of problems, because this is exactly how we are being brought in by the platforms, which are ultimately the ones that reveal to us the problems and to those that we have to answer. Mrs. Rodríguez Arias, it is true that there may exist this plan, which ends precisely in 2016, and from there it is precisely for that reason why we understand that it is absolutely necessary to address an integral strategy on emigration in its different perspectives. If that is true, precisely in budgetary matters, we, as I said, are necessarily presenting amendments of more than four million euros, because really the only increase that is being made in these projects' budgets, according to what the other day was commented on in the corresponding appearance in the Committee on Budgets, was the new line of scholarships for excellence of emigrants and young people. In principle, unless I had the data wrong, that line would, in principle, serve only a hundred young people or girls, according to that allocation of EUR 500,000. So we understand that it can be a point, but it's not at all ambitious to treat or either return the young men and women who have emigrated or left for absolutely laboral reasons; so that's why we're precisely formulating a substantial increase in these emigration budgets. If everything you've commented on is solving all the problems that emigration platforms formulate to us, they probably wouldn't be here on platforms and we wouldn't be trying to visualize a general problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u59	In any case, ensure as much return as possible, ensure the return of talented young people, influence the demography and influence the economy and influence the future of Galicia. That's why we believe this bet should be stronger than they are presenting to us in this immediate future, as are the 2017 budgets. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u60	Thank you, Mr. Díaz Villoslada. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u61	At the end of the debate on non-legislative proposals, we started with the votes. Firstly, we are voting on the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and twelve other Members. The amendments of the Socialist Group and the En Marea Group were not accepted. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. People of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Martín Fernández Prado and twelve other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demands to be made to the Central Government for the modernization of the railway line between Lugo and Ourense, through Monforte de Lemos, and the high-speed connection of Lugo to the Meseta. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 50; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u62	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal by the Nationalist Bloc Group of Wales on the initiative of Mrs Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Olalla Rodil Fernández and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the German Government to achieve the same educational burden in Greek as in Spanish in the various courses of the ESO. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u63	We now vote for the non-law proposal of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea on the initiative of Ms Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Ms Luca Chao Pérez. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. de In Marea, at the initiative of Da Maria de los Angeles Cuña Bóveda and Da Luca Chao Pérez, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in connection with the fulfilment of the legislation governing equality in the field of education. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u64	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Ms Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members. A transaction is pending. Yes, Mrs. Prado. [[Mr Prado del Río speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo speaks words that are not perceived.]] But you, if you want the transaction, you have the right too. Of course, I've looked at you. He didn't see me. He didn't see me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u65	Thank you, President. It's hard for me to keep an eye on Mrs. Paula Prado, but, well, nothing happens.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u66	I first looked at you with the intention, precisely, to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u67	President, the transaction is not possible because the customised accompaniment, which is in fact in the text of the initiative and in the numbering itself, is not accepted by the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u68	Thank you. There is therefore no transaction. If that's not right, then is there a transaction or no transaction? No, she says there's no transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] I want, if possible, to speak again and agree, above all. Isn't that possible? Well, if it's not possible, we have nothing to do. No, no, I'm sorry, it's not possible, but she doesn't want to get into a transaction. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Mrs. Prado, don't try hard, she doesn't want to get into a transaction. That's it, we're going to vote as it is. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da Patricia Vilán Lorenzo and three other Members, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government to increase the number of judges specialized in gender violence in Galicia, as well as the specific and periodic training in the subject in all sectors of justice and the implementation of the personalized judicial accompaniment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u69	We now vote on the non-law proposal on actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to combat gender-based violence in rural areas. In particular, there seems to have been an acceptance, as I am writing here, of an amendment in the voice of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group and also a vote on points. So we'd vote separately. Can one or all be grouped together? Separately. Three points – – I understand – – are three points. Let us first vote on the first point of this non-law proposal. We vote. Vote for the first point of the proposed non-law G.P. text. Mr de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to combat gender-based violence in rural areas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. The first point of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u70	We voted for the second point of this not-law proposal. We vote. Vote of the second point of the transactional text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. Mr de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to combat gender-based violence in rural areas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 69. The voting is positive. The second point of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u71	And finally, we are voting on the third point of the non-law proposal. We vote. Third-point vote on the proposed non-law of the G.P. Mr de En Marea, at the initiative of Da Paula Quinteiro Araújo and three other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece to combat gender-based violence in rural areas. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. The third point of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u72	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal by the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego on the initiative of Mr Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members. It seems that the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group is not accepted and that the vote is taken by points. That's three points. Can you group or one by one? One by one. We started by voting on the first point of the non-law proposal. We vote. Vote of the first point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made by the Central Government in relation to the activity of the Elnosa chlorine production plant in Lourizán, Pontevedra. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 37; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. The first point of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u73	We voted for the second point of the non-law proposition. We vote. Vote of the second point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made by the Central Government in relation to the activity of the Elnosa chlorine production plant in Lourizán, Pontevedra. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 19; votes against, 37; abstentions, 13. The result of the vote is negative. The second point of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u74	And finally, we are voting on the third point of the non-law proposal. We vote. Voting of the third point of the Proposal, not the law of the G.P. the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia and the demand to be made by the Central Government in relation to the activity of the Elnosa chlorine production plant in Lourizán, Pontevedra. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. The third point of this non-law proposal is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u75	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the People's Parliamentary Group on the initiative of Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and four other Members. There is an offer of compromise – – I understand it – with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and does not accept the amendment of the En Marea Parliamentary Group. Is there a transaction? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u76	Yes, Mr. President, there's a deal. We added point 5 of the amendment of the Socialist Group, which would remain as point 2 in our initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u77	Is point 5 of the Socialist Group and it would be in point 2 of the initiative? We voted for this transaction. [[Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo Rodríguez speaks words that are not perceived.]] We vote. Vote of the transactioned text of the Non-Law Proposition, of the G.P. People of Galicia, on the initiative of Mr. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and four other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in order to reduce the late diagnosis of HIV infection, or AIDS. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 50; abstentions, 19. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u78	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. He accepts the En Mare amendment. We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr. Juan Manuel Díaz Villoslada and five other Members, on the development by the Government of Galicia of an integral strategy for the returned Greeks, for the period 2017-2020, with the participation of their representative associations and the Greek communities abroad. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u79	We opened the doors. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Fernández Leiceaga asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Leicega? What do you want the word for? [[Mr. Leicega Fernández pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? Give him a voice. You can talk now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u80	Yes, it is a suggestion for successive votes, because, especially when there are amendments in voice, it is difficult to know exactly what we are voting on. So I'd ask that in those cases or whether you'd provide a copy of the amendment or, if not, read it. I know it's a little bit more obstinate — let's say — but it's necessary to know exactly what we're voting for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u81	You're right, it'll be done. We are now debating the fourth item on the agenda, every time the second item has been postponed. Ms Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Nationalist Block, on the policy of the Government of Greece in relation to gender-based violence in minors
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u82	Mrs. Pontón has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u83	Good day to all of you again. I'd like to, before we get into some of the issues we want to raise today, make some reflection. The first is that, in fact, male violence is violence against women by the mere fact of being women. We don't think this is a scratch, this is a political problem, this is a social problem, and clearly what's behind it is the maintenance of a patriarchal regime where the belief of male power and the subjection of women is based; therefore, we're talking about violence that is historical and structural. I also want to make it very clear that our group has always said it — and I repeat it today with absolute clarity — and we don't think that there are magic solutions or that gender violence is going to eradicate by flashing the fingers of a hand. However, what can't be embraced is that everything is fine, that we can't prevent violence against women, because that's a thesis that puts us in an unexited calexion and that, in addition, naturalizes violence against women as a normal phenomenon. So that's the first idea for us to banish. And we must deliver a message that violence is defeatable, but that to end violence, we must end machismo and question a clearly unequal system, a patriarchal system. There is a second question which we think it is important to point out in this debate. We're watching a reticence of macho violence, a reticence that clearly tells us that there are things that are not being done well and that there is a reaction to women's freedom. And right now what we believe is that the timely question we have to ask isn't why women continue to be murdered; the question is: why women are killed? There's a reality that I think is known. I also do not think this is a problem of official data and figures, but I would like to highlight some, Mr Rueda, because I think they are important for the reflections that we have to do not only with regard to gender-based violence in the case of minors but in general, because, indeed, violence in the case of minors is reproducing a stereotype that is taking place in society. If we took the data from 2015 — which was certainly a dramatic year — in relation to the number of women killed, we have a first reality that seems worrying to us, and is that in that year eight women were killed in Galicia, and they meant 13.33% of the women who were killed in the Spanish state as a whole. But that same year we saw how many complaints in Galicia were around 5% of the state's total complaints. This means that in Galicia there is a problem, and there are few complaints about gender-based violence if we take into account the state average. And this must concern us, because the studies that tell us -- if I'm not mistaken, and you can correct me, Mr. Vice-President -- are that the complaints that come to court are a very small part. It is estimated that between 10 and 20% — 20% if we are optimistic — are. This means that we're talking about a reality that's much bigger than the one that's giving official figures and that we must be concerned that there are so few complaints in the courts, because that means that there are many women who are suffering in absolute loneliness what is a crime and therefore that no crime is being pursued in our country. And this year we'll see again -- and it's another figure I'd like to share -- because I think we need to think about what's not working -- that there's 40% protection orders that are denied in Galicia -- that's 2015 figures. And that means there's a higher percentage of denials of protection orders in Galicia than in the state as a whole. We think this should at least lead to thinking about whether justice in Galicia is either good or bad. I just got a disappointment, because I think it's very bad news that the People's Party had voted against more specific gender-based violence judgments. It is that this really makes it clear that there is no firm commitment, as we see, on this issue. I am also one of those who believe that in the debate of gender violence it is not for anything the "and you more", the partisan debate, the short-term debate, and that we have to have real capacity to analyze what things are missing, where we can move forward and whether they really are putting all the means in two directions: in prevention and research and, secondly, in something that I think we should remove from within, and that we have to guarantee women who denounce that they will have all the support and all the protection. And with realism and with no accuracy what I'm saying is that the system is failing at this point, because clearly there are women who adhere to the judicial system, who adhere to the social system and who are not being guaranteed their physical integrity, they are not being guaranteed their life. And that's a serious problem, which we'll have to see if the resources are sufficient or if the resources are not well-coordinated and are working badly, if we have to question the system that introduces the level of risk of women seeking an order of protection. Maybe that stat is not working well. What can't be said is that we saw, as we saw last year, that in the Spanish state as a whole a very important part of the women who were murdered had asked for help and it was estimated that there was no high degree of danger there. Surely the criteria that are being used to assess this danger are not working and will need to be reviewed and this will have to be done. I hope that today the Government will give us an assessment of a problem that we consider to be serious, which, as I said, is a symptom — the increase we have seen in the violence in minors. We're talking state data. I wish we could also have data to know about the reality of Galicia, I don't know if the vice president has them and can illustrate them. In any case, in the official statistics that we can consult these data do not appear. But that data tells us that in 2015 there was a very important reticence of violence against girls in the Spanish state as a whole and also a very important reticence of the aggressors who were younger. And what does that mean? There's a play of the roles. And we also see how in these new generations measures — in theory — co-educational ones are not fulfilling the role they should perform. I also have this very clear: while the whole of society doesn't change those patterns of behavior, you can't blame minors, which in the end are playing social patterns. In any case, what we think about is that we have to do a background reflection precisely by focusing on how these situations are reproduced. In that sense, it seems to me that there are some issues that would be interesting today that we could address in relation to the functioning of laws, their effectiveness and their development. We believe there are laws that we need to improve in order to move forward in a better treatment of violence. We've proposed it here. The People's Party never wanted to pick up that glove. It would be important to define well what we're talking about, and we pick up a conceptual category like that of feminicide, which we think helps categorize better what we're doing, and that with a good diagnosis there's going to be a better answer. We also believe that areas such as sensitization, training, registration, research into gender-based violence have not been given the importance they have, and in fact, very little resources have been allocated. And if we take the memory that the Government sends to Parliament the development of the law, we will see that they are timely actions that do not have a global impact, and that, therefore, we have a lot to do in that area. And there is really a very serious problem with training, awareness-raising and coordination. Look, I recommend to you, Mr Vice-President, if you have a moment in your schedule, that you stop reading two appearances that were held in this Parliament in the non-permanent Commission for the study of equality in the past legislation. One is a representative of the Galician Bar Association, where he gives data and questions that are absolutely uniquely and exclusively resolved and coordinated, for example, in the field of justice. As we have very little time, I'm going to report to you just a few, but I find it interesting to bring them in in this debate because it's certainly issues that don't require a great deal of resources. He denounced the representative of the Galego College of Advocates as there is a lack of specialized training and awareness-raising in the treatment of gender-based violence in the courts. And besides, I was saying that, despite the fact that training is a competition that assumes Galician Union in the law, who is developing it are the schools of counsel. We were also told that there is a lack of specialized training in forensic doctors in the Immelga. It was mentioned that the Centre for the Coordination of Protection, for example, in some cases was not reporting well to women victims of resource violence, and it had their own experiences from women who didn't know there was a psychological care program for women. And I think that's a serious problem, that your department should analyze and see if really these kinds of situations are happening. He was talking about the need for us to have a forensic risk assessment protocol, because it was proving that there was a failure. We were told about the need for comprehensive valuation units, which were provided for by law over ten years ago...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u84	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u85	...and said its operation here was unexpected. And there was also an audience of the president of the College of Psychologists, which I recommend if you have some real time to read it, because you're putting on the table some of the issues that we bring here today. How can we have treatment programs for batterers first, which aren't mandatory? I think we should give that debate. But secondly, they exclude the minors, when we're seeing that there's a rebound of violence as well. And we want these kinds of issues to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u87	I'm done here. And in my second speech, I will make some more proposals, Mr. Vice-President. We really believe that Galicia needs a Greek pact against real gender violence, with deadlines, with measures, with commitments. And that we don't agree with what we've done, because, really...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u89	...conformism does not help eradicate either Machism or gender-based violence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u90	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all of you. First of all, because it is my first intervention in this plenary, which is true that it is not monographic in nature, but in a large part it is dedicated to speaking in Parliament and trying to find conclusions for the fight against male violence, the first thing I want to do, as the president has already done, is to manifest the strongest condemnation of the two murders that have occurred in recent weeks, of Ana and Elena, and of course of all the murders and all the macho violence that have happened until today. It's already three murders this year in Galicia, more than 1,000 in Spain, and therefore it's a situation that Mrs. Pontón said she doesn't want to talk about lacra; I don't know if it's a lacra, but since it's a huge problem in all the world: social problem, political problem, structural problem and of course a problem that's not solved. I appreciate your tone, Mrs. Pontón, because I think that's the way. Of course, if you really perceive conformism, it's a wrong perception. There's no conformism at all. It's just that as long as there's only one death, as long as there's only one case of macho violence, the problem is unresolved. And so we have to keep working, we'll have to keep taking action, we'll have to keep talking to everyone, but of course the problem is not solved, and therefore at least our band, conformism, at all. I'm telling you, you don't have to resign. I know the data. Of course, all the data that we have and which can be useful to you I can make them easier. I am today in this interpellation, because I see that you were asking, I'm going to mention, because besides time is what it is, what it refers to the masque violence in youth, at the earliest ages, but of course all the data available to the Vice President and the Council of Galicia can be made easy, all statistical data, and of course without any problem. The data you use in the exhibition of your interpellation, I think, in addition to the memory of the General Secretariat of Equality itself, we know them perfectly. There are other studies on this subject that are more specific. Even in January 2015, which you know, the Government's Delegation for Gender Violence has presented a very significant study, and with very conclusive data, on the social perception of gender violence in adolescence and youth, and there they were soon introduced to conduct that we all probably assumed, we could even know, but they are obviously very worrying in Spanish youth and therefore also in Galicia. He said the study that, in general, youth knows or has access to awareness-raising, counselling, complaints, at least the channels to get to know it, but that still they give themselves very worrying behaviors. That one in every three boys considers it inevitable and, if not inevitable, acceptable, in certain circumstances -- said the study -- that it is normal to control the schedules of the couple, to prevent the couple from seeing their family or their friends, or not allowing the couple to work, or not to allow them to study, or oriental about what they have to work or what they have to study, or tell them what things they can or cannot do, are of course very worrying data, when we think that this can happen in one of every three boys, discriminatory behaviors already when they are occurring, but it is that, in addition, it is much more serious because they are incipient signs that other manifestations of much more serious misconduct can be anticipated. And, therefore, by answering your first question of interpellation, we know this data, they worry about us, and we think that the subject isn't much less solved. And that's why, in order to help young people and girls to be able to recognize, first of all, those conducts, especially after they have been able to fray, the Council of Galicia has carried out awareness-raising and prevention actions. In 2016, starting with the educational agenda, which I think is the key to many other things in this and many other issues, but especially in what we are talking about, we incorporate -- you will know it -- as a free self-setting subject to the subject Gender Equality, for the school course 2016-2017, where we are; we are the second autonomous community that does so. The I Action Plan for Equality was developed in Galicia's education centres 2016-2020, a roadmap to involve the entire educational community, not just teachers and teachers. These initiatives will continue in next year 2017, but we will do other and other issues. We are going to offer to the municipalities — I believe key structures, key local administrations, for their proximity, for their permeability of the territory, for many reasons — in that network of local entities against gender violence, which are also involved in offering them activities: workshops on gender-based violence in the new digital context. We must take very seriously the news of gender-based violence that is taking place through social networks. There are exhibitions: "To gender violence... tell him no!""Letters of Love", travelling exhibitions that will be in all of those councils that wish to do so and that are involved in their dissemination; counselling and family therapy programs in collaboration with the councils; information talks, by the CRI staff, about the consequences of violence on women and children, guidelines for their approach." We are launching and yesterday presented in the EGAP the project "Calling to the World", which is addressed to adolescents at risk of social exclusion, to promote equality values in them, which will be developed in public juvenile centres in collaboration with the Fundación Juan Soñador. Finally, Mrs. Pontón, we are doing things, and of course all kinds of suggestions are allowed, all kinds of additions and all kinds of criticism constructively, which I'm sure will be constructively, seeing the tone of your intervention. And, following the training of professionals, we are imparting to the CIM staff — and then I will talk about the CIM in the second part — and about the social services of the specific works councils to perform with teenagers. It has initiated a training plan in gender violence, which will be addressed to professionals of the Youth Information Network, precisely to continue to focus on this issue. At the Galego Observatory of Gender Violence, working group 3 -- I'm sure you know the data I'm going to tell you -- in the area of awareness and prevention, there's a specific module for addressing gender violence with youth from the educational field. I tell you: these are the initiatives that are being done, activities that we have to promote as administration, for a problem that is not even solved, and for what — I insist — all the suggestions that come in the constructive sense are admitted. On the question that I was asked in the "We Open the Circle" program, it actually marks itself within a collaborative program that we have with the Official College of Psychology of Galicia, and that has been working for many years now, since 2001, and that is of course a very necessary agreement, so necessary that this year 2017, and seeing that cases really increase, or at least increase the cases that come to the professionals of psychology specialized in this field, we have increased their allocation by 23%; it was necessary, and therefore we had to do so, and nearly EUR 250,000. You know that you're addressing men who have problems controlling violence in the family and who want to learn how to resolve conflicts without violence and better communicate with their partners. He's addressing them instead. Since 2009 — according to the last seven years — 521 men have been assisted and participated in this program, which is anonymous, is free and attended by trained professionals; they have guaranteed professional intervention with the collaboration of the Galician Union. You are interested in the possibility of expanding this initiative. Of course. But that depends on the professionals themselves, and those cases that are derived from professionals within the "We open the circle" program, the cases that come all the time, and there have already arrived cases of young people who are cared for; there has always been this possibility, Mrs. Pontón. Logically, the more young people are being cared for is evidence that we have a problem with which I am referring to my entire intervention, but also that the more young people arrive at this program — which I insist that you always reach voluntarily, it is true that many times the partner's initiative — because before we are trying to predict, know and treat behaviors that can result in something much more serious if they don't treat each other professionally from the outset. I already tell you that in 2015 and 2016 there have already been cases of children attending this "Opening the Circle" program, and therefore that possibility has always existed, and that possibility will continue to exist while there is a necessity, which unfortunately will continue to be there; so I insist that there is no conformism, they will be cared for and will continue to be equipped with this program. So in my short time, I tried to answer — one more reply — the questions put forward, but, in summary, Mrs Pontón, the attention to minors in this issue is fundamental. In education, I think we must continue to make an important effort. It would probably have started this special impact on the educational framework in preventing male violence before; well, probably, but the case is that it has already begun and now we try, with everyone's involvement, to go at a certain speed of cruise to recover lost time. In the end, prevention is crucial. Here, male violence — and I return to the beginning — is a problem in all the fields; and I say tears; in any case, it is a fundamental problem of society. So let's talk about prevention, talk about education, talk about awareness. The question also referred to the role of the social media is that they also have an important role. And, of course, also repression and punishment without any doubt the abusers. And in this too comes everything that has to do with the action of justice, although it is already before you — and I hope you will give me time to talk in the replica — that there are things that depend — and we have very clear — on the independence of the judiciary itself and on the very criterion of the judiciary, Mrs. Pontón. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Rueda. In the replica round, Mrs. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u93	Thank you very much. I, Mr. Rueda, also thank you for your tone, and in any case without any kind of acreitude, and at least for your thinking, don't you think it's a little surprising that, of all the initiatives in this plenary in relation to the consideration of violence against women, none is the Government's initiative? Don't you think at least the Government should come to this House, make a thorough reflection on what's going on, what's the situation we see, how we analyze it, and what are the measures that are going to start at the beginning of this legislation? I at least hope that, although they have not done so at this moment, I do not lose the opportunity to do so at the next plenary session, because I think there are many things that we have to talk about as to what is going on with violence, which are the measures that can be addressed, and I believe that a broader appearance of theirs, of the President of the Board, would honor it, since I had considered this to be a Greek subject, an important issue of the country, and which therefore had been held, to make a thorough assessment of what is going on, of what measures they have planned to take, and of what extraordinary facts will be put into effect in view of what is going on. Look, there's a milestone in Galicia that we think was a breakthrough in its time, but we're also not conformists and we think things can get better, first in its implementation. Look, there's an obligation you have by law, which is to promote research into gender-based violence, and a better qualification from a technical and professional point of view for all people working in contact, not only with victims, but in general contact with society. There's a horrendous breach of these articles of the law. I think acknowledging it is the first step so that these kinds of performances can be put in place. And really to me what concerns me most about your appearance, Mr. Rueda, is that, although you say you are not conformists, your facts tell us that you believe that you are doing everything you can, and you don't come here with new initiatives. What is the political impulse that this government is going to give to the fight against macho violence, to the fight against gender-based violence? I think that is absolutely necessary for us to know. Look, according to the Official College of Psychologists, there's a problem with the program "Let's open the circle," and if you go to the website, you'll see that it's like that; and it's just that, as it's configured, it's for older people. So, is that going to change? Is it going to expand the countia so that this is officially, not off-the-shelf, because they are -- let's say -- timely solutions for timely cases? Are we really going to do that a structural measure or is this something left behind? Second question. It seems to us, Mr. Rueda, that there should be more means and resources in this country to fight against gender-based violence. The president, in the morning, gave a data, which I at least consider to be an example of how much the policies of fighting against gender-based violence do not have enough political bodies. I think he was talking about 0.17% of the Union's budgets for the fight against gender-based violence, and you know, as I know, that most of these funds are going to go to pay the well-known — although even now it's not so — freedom wages, and in that sense I also hope that this increase will serve to comply with the law we approved in this Parliament at the end of the past legislation. I would also like to know whether the decree or new decree that they have to do according to that law will be passed in January and published. I think it's an important issue, because it's a really far-reaching measure for women who need that help to have an economic mattress and that economic dependence doesn't keep any women living with their aggressor. But that seems to us to be insufficient. That is why we are going to present an amendment, which we would like you to seriously study, Mr Rueda, and it is for us at least to target around 1% of the budget of the Union to the fight against gender violence, so that we can do prevention and training, so that we can improve the means and resources, and also that there is a greater job in everything that refers to the staffing of these policies. I said, "I'm a Greek pact." We think that requires resources. We make this amendment, which we hope you don't just hide and even look at it, as they usually do with the amendments that oppose the budgets, that we move forward in the legislation, that we actually see those things that are not being complied with, that they are being implemented and that we improve the legislation to give you greater protection. He was talking about feminicide, the status of the victim of feminicide, so that there's a coordinated response in all areas. We'd like that to be a pioneering measure that we'll take forward in Galicia and also move forward in other areas that have to do with education, with information and with better support from women.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u95	I'm running out of time. In any case, we are going to present a motion that collects these kinds of proposals, and indeed, Mr. Rueda, which I would like at the beginning of this legislation one of the major political agreements of all the groups that have taken place in this House not to say that we are against violence against women, but to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u96	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u97	...to put in place real and effective measures that really mobilize all the resources and efforts needed to make this a political priority. Because, for a lot of statements and many minutes of silence, what we've checked many times in the streets is how this subject has only focussed when murders occur and then everything follows the same. And we think that can't be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u98	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. Mr. Alfonso Rueda has the floor of the vice president and chairlor, public administration and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u99	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Pontón, I will continue with the tone that I think you have kept in both speeches and I will also do in this, which I think is what helps us all, but I have to say one thing, because you referred to it. I have come up with my own initiative to talk about violence and equality policies in this Parliament. I have done it for a fundamental reason: because the Government works all year long and of course sometimes works in silence, taking measures, trying to succeed, I say in a work that is always unfinished. But I also tell you one thing: I either submit myself or I am in a position to submit to questions and opposition initiatives in all the plenary sessions that are held, but usually the opposition — it's true that your group is a little bit more — does not ask me any questions about these issues. I welcome the fact that awareness-raising, the greatest concern — it should not be so, at least for our part — that supposes the two machistoric murders that have occurred recently at the end have as a result that we are talking about this full of masquerade violence, but I insist that masculine violence — and you agree too — is all year, unfortunately, it is not only when murders occur, and you can always ask me, and it turns out that we are talking about this only when two murders occur. This is so, and therefore, as you have brought this matter out, I have to answer it with all cordiality but with all firmness. Male violence is taking place all year round, not just on time. And then I urge you to stay calm, because if you hadn't done so, you wouldn't be quiet, that no underage, if a professional or professional decides that you have to be cared for in the "We open the circle", a minor, a teenager, will cease to be; in fact, they're already being, in recent years, they've already given you a date in the first intervention. Therefore, it is actually said that it is for older people, because so far it was directed — I said it in the first part of the intervention — especially to men — and there are over 500 cared for — but if there is any less than a professional in Galicia thinks it should be taken care of, as it is; and unfortunately I fear that this number will increase; I say unfortunately, because that indicates that the problem is there; what we have to do is deal with it. And I'm also going to tell you one thing: many of the men who are cared for in the "Opening the Circle" program come from the centers of attention to women, from the CISG. And I'm saying that because they have that fundamental task, I say that because you also presented an initiative at this plenary session saying that there had to be a CISG in every municipality in Galicia. Well, you voted in favour of that, and then I ask you what's going on at Ponte Caldelas, when a woman comes to want to do... sometimes it's a first... it's just that, Mrs. Pontón. [[Mrs. Pontón Mondelo speaks words that are not perceived.]] What you can't say is that we have to do our best to facilitate the first exit door of the masculine violence to a woman and then we're being complicit, at least with silence, that a information center is closed to the woman and that it's said that in the end we have to request an appointment, as if it were a normal social service, as if it were something to call by phone, give the data and they'll call you. That's what you're dealing with, Mrs. Pontón, is that that's a problem, and I hope you don't give the example and that no other council where you're ruling or supporting that government is going to happen to you the nonsense of closing a CIS, in addition to giving false data, because it turns out that economic support has been growing these years. It's another kind of problem that I hope will only happen in the mayor of Ponte Caldelas and only in a government that, by the way, supports you. And I'm saying that because it's important, because often the drifts to "Open the Circle" come from the CIS, and if there's no CIS, it's much harder than there's derivation, and I doubt a woman can derive by phone and give her a quote. That's right, Mrs. Pontón, and I think it was good to say it, especially so as not to point the example, so that this will stop. Look, about the judges of gender-based violence, we're going to continue to do what we always do in the creation of judges, according to the High Court of Justice, where we think it's necessary and where we think it's going to help the best functioning of justice, in this kind of judges and in all the others. And I believe that in this, in order to be objective and to be right, we should not — of course not — change the criterion. I've already told you: concerning denials of protection orders, they are legal criteria, we have to respect it and give support so that they can decide independently, and I think that any other interference would be a mistake, that we will certainly not allow ourselves. I wanted to give you some data, to finish with, how things are working. He told me the data the president gave in the answer to his question this morning. He actually talked about the budget we're dedicated to. You say you're going to present an amendment. Look, they don't have a budget higher than they have in Aragon and what's in Valencia, which talks a lot about gender-based violence, but that's not worth it, because it comes from the public aid given to women victims of macho violence. Hey! Well, if you want, we'll get those help, and we're already at the level of Aragon and Valencia, which say they do a lot to fight against macho violence, and, if you think those indices are better, because maybe we do so and so we agree with other governments that you too in one way or another would support or support a lot of things that you're saying. It's about taking real action, Mrs. Pontón. It's about also betting on economic resources, which are never going to be enough, that we'll look for, we'll do everything possible to get them up, as far as the public resources of the Galician Union are concerned, because we can't get more than where they're from, and when we have, we've just said, "Hey!" as soon as the public resources of the Union have risen, we've given the most priority. And I'm telling you again: the BNG initiative, by the way -- and there was no problem in recognizing it -- now women victims of masculine violence don't have to wait for a certain time of year to charge those aid, they're already covering themselves, because they've increased by almost 60%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u100	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u101	They increased, as I told you earlier, 23% of the budget for the "We Open the Circle" program. Those are the things that must be done, those are the things in which we can agree, Mrs. Pontón, and those are the things in which, by dialogue and having everyone's initiatives, we can gradually end up with a problem, unfortunately, with which I think we're going to take a lot of time to finish, but we can't give up at some point saying that masculine violence is a bad story or a bad nightmare. But for that, we'll all have to agree that we have to be constructive, not do political demagogy, not tell things that are not true...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u103	...and slowly get better. I hope so, and I believe that in this interpellation, of course, that was my intention and I hope to have achieved it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u104	Thank you very much. Da Eva Solla Fernández and two other members of the G.P. de In Marea, on the health care situation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u105	The appeal is published in the Official Gazette of the Galician Parliament No. 28 of 14 December 2016. Eva Solla Fernández, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u106	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. We have started this legislation with a proposal on health matters and today, in the last plenary session of this short session, we have to bring back the health issue to debate, and we do so because workers and workers at the University Hospital Complex in Ourense have transferred to us the impossibility of continuing to work on these conditions, the insatiability of this burden of work, the accumulation of patients in the Emergency Service and the poor conditions and the delay in which they are met and attended. These circumstances are the ones that, as already discussed here in a previous plenary session and as all of your lords already know, have had to go to the Prosecutor's Office to denounce what was happening there. And believe me -- and I suppose you know -- for health workers to go to the Public Prosecutor's Office is because the situation is really unsustainable, because you're not meeting your demands, which are also the demands of the people who use the service. On that day, when they came to the Prosecutor's Office, out of the 19 emergency boxes — as you know — 17 were occupied with patients in observation or admitted/involved, 14 patients in a transit area and 24 in another pre-infrection room; a barbarity of workload, but, in addition, an entirely inefficient situation from the point of view of health management, because, as you know, the emergency boxes are, as I do, to see emergencies; when emergency boxes deal with people awaiting entry or persons in an observational situation, not only people are in a situation that is not desirable, but other patients are prevented from being seen and cared for in emergencies, thus encouraging the collapse of the people they are waiting for and the waiting time for that first sight by the health team. When a patient is in a corridor, he is in a room, he does not respect his intimacy, he does not respect his dignity, and he exposes himself, in addition, to an environment — which you know, like me, as a health careman — of contagious diseases, which is unacceptable as an ordinary method, and in addition makes it impossible to pay proper attention, because the burden of work is excessively increased and because it is impossible for space to work in adequate conditions. When there's an emergency collapse, there's not just an emergency problem, there's a global problem throughout the health centre, and that's precisely because there's a problem in the other hospital services; there's a lack of sufficient resources, material resources, but above all human resources. They keep their beds closed — we have it moved here — not only the beds that are kept closed or that are closed — you don't like to talk about closures — or that are disabled during the summer months, but we have a plant at Piñor Hospital that we'd like to know why it's been permanently closed for several years. But besides, there are two units and two rooms, around sixty beds, which could be enabled to receive income and are not being done. We don't understand it, and we want you to explain to us why there are closed or disabled beds when people accumulate precisely by waiting for emergency income, and therefore there is an inefficient situation and poor attention, and bad management, and I also say it because it's not a matter of time, we also brought it in the previous legislation. I went to visit the hospital and you don't give yourself just those collapsing punctually in winter or summer, is that throughout the year this situation is becoming routine, and therefore there's a serious problem of management in the center, which you, as Health Counsellor, should address. The day I was meeting with the Central Commission on December 1st, of the 19 available boxes, 10 were busy with pending bed incomes, 10 of the 19; therefore, it is impossible for more people to be cared for to attend to emergencies and they accumulate sick without being able to see. And besides, there's a real problem, which is not recent: that patients in cardiac observation, which is not unique to this center either, it's true, but in this center it's more elevated, it's an emergency of enough beds with telemetry; it's those that are logically necessary to control the heart constants of patients with a given problem. That's why, when those plant beds are busy, these patients build up in emergency care with monitors, and so they increase the workload, attention is not the right thing for these patients, there's no space, they don't have their own bathroom. I won't explain, because I understand you already know. That situation has continued for the last few years and is unacceptable, and we want to know why they haven't had enough beds, which, in addition, are available from that telemetry to relieve this situation in the urgency of the Chuou. It is also necessary to know why you continue without adequately equipping professionals with emergencies, why we don't open beds, we keep this situation perpetually, but at the same time that increase in workload is not increased with an increase of professionals to care for these people. We understand from our group that what they have to do is increase emergency plants and do it, even more about that increase, the days of greater influx. I'm telling you because the staff is really desperate about the conditions they're working on. And he was saying right now that the emergencies are collapsing, not because of the emergency problem itself, but because there's a management problem throughout the hospital. We are now, in spite of all the delay with which you have moved what is the opening of this hospital enlargement, with a problem that is obvious: that we do not know what will happen to the current plants; that is, there is an extension of the hospital, that for us is insufficient and that, in addition, comes with delay, where they will expand or if they will make hospital beds, but, on the other hand, there are a number of plants where we understand that they will be closed in a way I do not know whether they will be closed immediately or in the medium term, as soon as they open the new hospital beds in the new area, other beds. So we don't know, we don't know, whether the balance is going to be the same or even negative. We'd like to know how many beds are going to be and how many are going to stay in the old part and what's going to be the balance over the number of current hospital beds, because if we have an obvious problem with closed beds, with emergency collapses and it turns out that in the medium term what we're going to have is a lower number of resources, the problem will not only be solved but we also suspect that it can be increased. The usual situation of this collapse, of this number of excessive patients pending entry and observation in the emergencies — and they also transfer professionals from the complex — is evidenced in high premature cases. They consider them this way because it is quite common that you usually have patients who have already been discharged again by the Emergency Service. It's not easy, Counselor, to access the data on this circumstance, and therefore we ask you to move us here today, which is the return data after 24, 48 and 72 hours of the patients who are discharged. Because if that reality is being produced, we are, on the one hand, in the face of a very poor health management — which I understand to be so — but on the other hand, in addition to a problem for the safety and the quality of care for people who attend hospital emergencies and hospital centers themselves. We understand, Mr Counsellor — and I will finish now — that this situation is very serious, that we have to deal with it seriously, that we have already denounced in the previous legislation that this is happening and that when people, workers and workers have to go to the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is because they are not heard from the department, because the situation is really unsustainable and because they are — as I have just moved them — in a situation of total despair, because the burden of work is enormous and they know that adequate health care is not being given or the quality that we should expect from our health system. Therefore, Counselor, I wait for the answers, and I will make the assessment on the second turn. Nothing else for now.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Solla. The health adviser, Mr. Vázquez Almuínha, has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Solla, first of all, I want to point out the great professionals we have in Welsh health, as you all know. Of course, emergency professionals have a very high level because they are the worst planning circumstances at the health level, especially because patients come in situations of a very important emotional burden. We therefore highly value all the professionals who do their work in emergencies, both hospital and primary, in the CAP. But, Mrs. Solla, I can't at all share what it indicates in its explanatory statement because it is simply based on absolutely false premises. As we pointed out in the previous plenary session — it seems that it is now necessary to remove the issue of Ourense emergencies; I want to recall the initiative that the Socialist Party also had in the previous year, you are now — the Emergency Service of the University Hospital Complex of Ourense is structurally equipped with adequate capacity to meet the number of emergencies it receives, about 69,000 emergencies a year — 190 average daily emergencies — and with peaks that can reach 256 patients per day or with minimums that are around 155 days. Of course, at Christmas parties — especially on Mondays that coincide with these parties — he dances the greatest frequencies throughout the year; as all of you know well, in general, almost every year. The University Hospital Complex of Ourense currently operates 100% of its beds and has full access capacity for patients, both urgent and programmed. I have to tell you, in addition, that the ratio of attention to urgent income is within the parameters considered optimal. As you should know, hospitalization capacity varies at certain times, either by increasing urgent incomes — as in influenza periods — by reducing high levels, i.e. the average stay, or by increasing — as I said — from this average stay, derived from the complexity of patients, where population aging is a key factor in their chronicity and pluripathology, maximum in a province like Ourense, with one of the highest aging rates in Galicia — 30% of the population over 65 years old. As we have already said on more than one occasion, we are also, at European level, within countries with the greatest ageing population, which, on the one hand, is clearly a success of the health system, but on the other hand, has a number of conditions at the time of health care. In short, emergency services are one of the main entrances to the hospital, so at certain times the patient to whom the doctor prescribes an income must remain prudent for a while in the service until his transfer to a room, which is not any room, but, by trying to classify it properly, it is intended to go to the service where the specialist believes he should be with the necessary care. To speed up these internal transfers within the hospital, avoiding their stay in emergencies, the CHUO counts in different units with pre-engagement or transit beds, which allow always to meet in appropriate care conditions the patient entered until their transfer to the room. Both these intermediate units and the mattress units available in the building of Santa María Nai remain inoperative for most of the year after having free rooms in the rest of the hospital. The beds aren't closed. We don't talk about closed beds — as I think they're starting to understand perfectly — today we're talking about disabled beds. The important thing is not the bed, the important thing is the care for patients who need it; if it can be outpatiently, it's better to get it in, but there's no selection of closing or not closing beds according to recruitment interests but simply because of the need or not that patients have a different care. Its function is purely seasonal or open-ended in situations of over-the-light, proceeding to equip them with the personnel needed to ensure the right assistance, always at the time these beds are needed, equalizing their ratio of nursing staff to that of the rest of the hospital. As a matter of fact, it must be borne in mind that in the building of Santa María Nai — separated in a few hundred metres from the central core of hospitalization, crystal, surgical and infantry buildings — it cannot enter any type of patient, since, always following a medical criterion, they would be separated from services that clinicians consider essential, such as ICU, pneumology, digestive or cardiology; and therefore, it is the specialists who sign the income that they say should enter the patient. Therefore, beds available as mattresses in high periods and demand for income cannot be occupied by most patients who enter by emergency. This aspect will definitely be resolved with the next opening of the new hospital building you present in your intervention, or of what you are talking about — it's positive — following a little of the line the president gave in his speech, where until now we're already remodeling hospitals, making new hospitals or creating new health centers, around 70% of the population; in this legislation we're going to 100%. And Ourense, logically, is one of the areas that's going to be on the strategic plan of the board these four years. It is also important to remember that, precisely to improve the comfort and care quality of emergencies, the management carried out work on emergency reform and expansion last year, creating a new diagnostic and treatment room with a maximum capacity for 27 patients, which doubled the previously available space for this function and allowed the existing room to be used for patient care. Together with the improvement of space, the new room brought with it an increase of nursing staff assigned to two more nurses, which has reverted to a higher quality of care and patient safety, in addition to greater privacy and guarantees, facilitating the staff's care work. In addition, and also in the Emergency Service, in 2013 CHUO's leadership put into operation a new high-earning unit, equipped with 10 beds for the attention of those urgent patients who require a period of observation or stabilization over 24 hours, which can thus enter a room, avoiding their stay in the Emergency Service, with the comfort and intimacy of a regular hospital area. This non-existent unit covers an intermediate space between the 24-hour observation stay and its discharge to home, deigning the conditions of entry of these emergency patients. So far they should remain in the areas of observation in the Emergency Service, which, because of their collective characteristics provided for shorter stays, in which the continued observation is made, do not allow for the intimacy or quiet of a room, desirable for periods of higher income, as you also stated in your intervention. With regard to the monitoring of cardiology patients — which is also referred to — it should be noted that the Cardiology Service has four cardiac monitoring teams directly on the plant; provision that this direction, after an assessment of equipment needs and in anticipation of its future prioritization, decided to double with four new equipment already in process of installation, applying, by the truth, the surplus that the German Government achieved last year as a result of the few autonomous communities that met the health deficit. For this is what we use that surplus that Galicia has achieved. It must be noted that, when there is an entry criterion, the patient is monitored directly on the plant and that his/her stay in the emergency observation room, attended by the Cardiology Service, is only occurring when he/she is pending his/her transfer to that plant. As a matter of fact, the patients entered with those in observation could not be confused with cardiac monitoring for follow-up and evaluation prior to their discharge at home or entry into cardiology. In addition to the conjunctural measures, bed and personal enlargement, the Directorate of the Sergas Integrated Management Administration in Ourense works continuously in the medium and long term, and not only in terms of punctual periods of high demand for income, implementing specific care programs for elderly, chronic or pluripathological patients; they are precisely the most affected in these periods. For that, Management has a program of pluripathological chronics, piloted from primary care, which aims to provide an ongoing care response to these patients, avoiding the recurrence of income. Other measures in operation with a vision of the future are the extension of telemedicine to the specialties of pneumology, cardiology, internal medicine and rheumatology. Also, in the empowerment of home hospitalization, Ourense has a single service in Galicia at the provincial level or with the establishment of the High Precoz Unit, dependent on the Emergency Service. Chapter aside for its relevance in this project of continuous improvement of care to the major and pluripathological population is the launch of the Hospital 2050 Project programs, which will allow the two units of the new hospitalisation building to be fully innovative in order to modify the current income-based care model, enhancing alternative and follow-up formulas that offer assistance where the patient requires it. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u109	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u110	Thank you, President. Counselor, I regret that you say that the initiative is part of false premises because, therefore, those professionals you've greeted from here are telling them what they're lying about. It's precisely the professionals who denounce that the situation is totally unsustainable, it's not inventing it in Marea. And, look, we don't bring him here because we have nothing else to do. You used to talk: it seems that now it is necessary to remove the theme of Ourense. Well, on the issue of Ourense, there's a collapse problem that stays in time and there's a very serious health management problem. We don't bring him in because he likes us, we bring him in because there's a complaint in the Health Professionals' Office that he says people can't be cared for in these conditions. And, please, in that framework, in these circumstances of gravity, I would ask you to focus on the question and questions that I raised because they are very important. You say that now action has been taken since a 2015 report and that patients are in a room. I'm telling you to move patients from a corridor and accumulate them in a room is not a situation that solves anything at all. There is no dignity to be stuck to another patient by vomiting, pissing, debilitating, in these conditions. The health professionals — I really say — told us at the meeting — not only in that, at all — that there is contempt, that they feel scorned, that they continually complain about this circumstance. And the reason for his absence, his unwillingness to hear these complaints, was precisely that they resorted to the Prosecutor's Office. They tell us that for them, as health professionals — and I really tell you because I know, because I worked in emergencies — it is painful to meet those conditions people who could be themselves, who could be their parents, who could be their family. You cannot meet people in these conditions. It's the same as taking them out of a corridor and getting them in a room, the conditions aren't right. And if it seems to you that the time that they spend there is right and it's right, I'd like, please, to move here as much as you believe — and therefore responsible for this situation — that it is acceptable for a person to wait in a room for a bed: 24 hours, 12 hours, 48... How long can you wait for a person with pneumonia, a person in a complicated situation at the heart level...? How long can you wait for an elderly, older person, caught up with another patient, with an infectious disease in a room? Please tell me. Really, it would be nice to know your criteria. I'd also like you to answer about the return data, because sometimes you move that we're not right. At least move us the official data and we'll know if we're really wrong and wrong, too, health professionals, or whether you're the one who's right or not. I'd like you to answer that question. And I'd really like you to tell us what the bed balance is going to be because it's a serious health management problem. When you say that all beds are open -- obviously, that's not true -- and at the same time, you tell us that it's normal to build up people in an emergency bed, there's a serious management problem. Tell us if that opening of the new area is going to solve the problem, if it's going to increase or if it's going to stay practically the same, because the bed balance is going to be the same. You didn't give the data, and if you want us to evaluate according to the data, please answer it. There are closed beds. It's not like we've changed our mind about how the beds are, for me they're closed. I'd translate it because I knew you wouldn't give the real data, if I told you about closed beds. There's a plant I referred to at Piñor Hospital and I'd like to know what's the reason for it not to open up. I would also like to know what the reason is for you to talk about plants that open on time and why those beds are not continuously open and equipped with professionals. Because there's a problem, Mr. Padre, if this was a question of a day's saturation, we could understand it, the problem is that this situation is almost chronic. And when we get this cry of despair from the professionals, when they come to the prosecutor's office, it's because they really think they're not giving all the health care or all the quality of care they should have. Please do health professionals a favor and do us all a favor: stop the manager of Ourense hospital — let's ask him at the moment — not only because of his mismanagement — you can't have people piled up in a room when there are closed beds, but also because of the lack of planning, because of the absence of dialogue with the workers. [[Murmurs.]] You know, in addition, that there are even complaints about violations of workers' and workers' trade union rights. Please, you can't go on like this. If you consider yourself more responsible than the current manager, and in this situation and in the demands of the workers, you should take action. And I'm really asking you to talk to these professionals, because it's not a whim — I'm finished — moving this question here, they're just in a desperate situation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Solla, I was waiting because at first I was wondering why she would repeat herself. Last time, in the previous plenary session, I was the Socialist Party, now I was at Marea. Well, I had to wait for the last part, when I had no time to keep talking, so that it would really be clear. Here's a political issue. You use the name of the professionals to make political issues; you're clearly talking about politics. And that says in the final part, it's the important thing. [[Murmurs.]] At school we were told that the important thing always goes to the end, and you're very applied and so you take it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, first, I didn't say that professionals were lying, even that you're lying; so you make a statement that's false, that's indeed false, because, for nothing. Do you want to watch out for professionals? I worked in emergencies too, possibly some time longer than you, but, well, I'm older, I'm an already older person. And I want to tell you that I know very well the operation of the Emergency Service and I know how difficult it is. But you have an added difficulty, because we can't plan the emergency. What has to be urgency is basically flexible; we have to adapt to the circumstances. It's very good that there are inoperative beds during months of the year because that means that, when there are peaks of emergency, all the neighbors, all the people in our area, can be perfectly cared for and admitted; and adapt to what is the number of personnel needed and sufficient. And so we have to, it's a demand for society that we have to respond to. Call my attention that you — who says you know Ourense hospital — do not say, for example, that one of the main reasons for making improvements, the new block, the new building, which will be open in a couple of months — are already doing the technical tests to be able to open it in conditions, is also the quality of the rooms. There are rooms that were three rooms and, of course, we can't have three rooms. That's not about beds because, if I had talked about beds, the ideal thing for you would be that the rooms had beds; then we would multiply the number of beds and say, how many do we have? No, no, no, no. We want quality in hospital income and that's why the block is made. And we're talking about half-stay because, if you talk about management, we have to talk about management, and management is what makes, if you lower the average stay, the necessary beds are smaller. But whether they're smaller or not, of course, we want rooms far better than those they are. And these new rooms in Ourense are going to be high-level, high-quality; in fact, they are within the programs of Innova Saúde and Hospital 2050, of projects that were awarded in Europe by that high quality. That's why we're going to keep working. On the subject of re-entry, do you have to say that you refer to re-entry, do you mean ups, as you say, earlys, or do you mean ups from emergencies that return to the emergency? It's a much more complex analysis than you do. Now, I have to say one thing, of course, shortening the average stay is positive for patients, very positive; that they may be at home, to be treated strictly in the hospital and then be followed, but at home. That's what everyone is asking for. Today people don't want to be in the hospital, they want the problem to be solved as soon as possible, and we have to answer all that. Look, he's talking about CHUO staffing. Well, I have to tell you that this assistance is done by the optional nursing staff. And the quantification of troops is calculated and scaled according to workloads and hours of the day for each particular area. We must point out, as far as the characteristics of their staff are concerned, that the ratio of internists per patient in the CHUO is the highest in Galicia; it has 30 internists in staff — the same as the CHUS — and with a higher population assigned to this hospital — two more than the Chuvi, for example. The same way that the emergency staff board is within the criteria of maximums that indicates how optimal we are the Spanish Emergency Medicine Society — the SEMES — considered world to stand. Specifically, the Emergency Service of the CHUO has a staff of 34 doctors, in addition to 45 nurses, 38 nursing assistants, 38 janitors and 14 administrative staff. It is perfectly suitable staff to attend to their care activities, and in recent years it has not been reduced, much less — as I said before, that they have increased — in any professional category. Both in these services and in all the centres we reiterate that the staffing is perfectly sized, taking into account the total annual activity. I would like to point out that Ourense has one of the best data at Galicia level in times of access to consultations and interventions, keeping the line of reduction of medium-term access to consultations and interventions recorded in recent years. I also want to say that today I think there's good news. And I think that, as you want public Greek health, the hospital surpluses today came out. It has to be said that last year, in 2015, we had 2 in the first 50, and this year we already have 3 hospitals. So I think the quality of the hospitals in the Greek health service is gradually improving with the efforts of the professionals in the Galician Health Service and, of course, also with the managers working in the Welsh health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u113	Thank you, Counselor. The sixth item on the agenda corresponds to questions from the Government. Here you know we have to be stricter with time. Question from Da Matilde Begoña Rodríguez Rumbo and two other MPs from G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the reasons of the Government of Galicia not to elect the competitive competition regime for the convening, through the Order of June 14, 2016 and within the Special Investment Plan, of grants aimed at improving infrastructure and equipment in the municipalities of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u114	Question by Mrs Rodríguez Rumbo of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning to all of us and to all of us. You, Counselor, have been President's Counsellor for eight years, if I am not mistaken, and in addition to Mr. Fraga's Government, he has been Director General of Local Administration. I'm saying all this because the responsibility you have now and you've shown you before compels you to have a direct relationship with all the Greek municipalities, and also with Fegamp, as a representative of all the municipalities, of the 313 Greek municipalities. So, as you well know, the needs of the municipalities are many and the lack of action to achieve territorial rebalancing is still a pending subject of this government. That's why the Greek governments have a very important fund for them, which is the Local Cooperation Fund, which is important not only on their own but also because it's dedicated to non-finalist funds. Thus, local governments democratically elected by their neighbours and neighbours can apply these funds to the policies for which they have been elected, of course, but the rest of the incomes coming from the Galician Union are conditioned through aids and subsidies that each council would manage and convene according to the criteria it considers appropriate or those criteria that have a specific purpose or conditioned by another administration. As you know perfectly well, the municipalities have a number of competences that are collected in the Law regulating the local administration of Galicia. And besides, there are certain services that are absolutely necessary for all the municipalities; necessary because all their neighbors and neighbors need it, regardless of the size of the municipality and where they live, precisely to improve their well-being and improve their standard of living. These basic services include sanitation and water supply, paving of municipal public roads, renovation of municipal buildings and facilities and infrastructure equipment. You also know that in Galicia we have 258 municipalities with fewer than 10,000 inhabitants and that they bring together 30.26% of the population of Galicia. The question I want to ask you is why the board you run this year called a grant order for municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants so that the investments or equipment I listed earlier would be subsidisable. In this call for applications is one month from the publication of the order in the DOG. The Order is published on June 27th, starts on June 28th and ends on July 27th — if I am not mistaken. And the documentation to be submitted to be able to opt for that subsidy is, among other things, project or preliminary project of work...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u116	Thank you. Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u117	Well, I wanted to say that the amount intended to meet this call...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u118	Ask the question you'd like to ask the counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u119	All right. So I ask you clearly... the question is clear: what are the reasons why you do not consider it necessary to make a comparison and priority between the applications submitted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs Rodríguez, I suppose you know that this is the second time I answer a question in Parliament about this same order. The final question, the president was asking you to make, but the subject is the same. Mrs. Soneira already asked me what was the purpose of this order. He seemed very suspicious that we took out this order. So I came here to Parliament to answer why the Galician Council decided to take this order — I'm sure you know too — which was a second call for an order that had already been convened a few months earlier in 2016. I'm telling you, Mrs. Soneira was asking me for the purpose, and now you're asking me about the method of selection, I guess because she knows the purpose, right? The purpose of the second call was, specifically, first directed to municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants; that is already a good indication of what this matter was about. And then, as a fundamental criterion — not the only one, but the fundamental one — it was to help the municipalities that suffered damage from the floods, the temporal ones, some very numerous, some smaller ones, which had occurred a few months earlier, when the first call could no longer be made. So where were those municipalities, by the way, mainly? Well, look, in the province of Coruña and in the province of Pontevedra. How did all this work out before we got this order out? So we talked to the deputies, we talked to the Fegamp, and we stayed where we all had to help. So we gathered together, we said yes, the Fegamp representing all the municipalities, and then the truth and truth is that the Crown Deputy said yes but then he said no, and the Pontevedra Deputy directly took it and said that this was none of their business, that to help small municipalities that had broken clues, that had uncommunicated neighbours, that had suddenly large terraplens that had collapsed by cutting the passage, that was one thing that came from emergencies and, therefore, had arranged themselves there to join Galicia, or had arranged their neighbours or neighbors. Because the deputies, hey!, it's very good that they're renting auditoriums in Vigo — I don't say no — to make composting — I don't say no — but they'll also be for this, I say!, to help the small municipalities that have incommunicado and neighbors and neighbors incommunicado. We were told not to, and that was the reason for taking the order. I'm saying that because of this, everything else is derived, and we had to help as soon as possible. And look, we've been looking at a system that's been in the grant law since 2007. It will also ring this year and this date because you were also the director of Local Administration at that time, and also the Galician Board has repeatedly turned to this selection system when you thought it appropriate. Because what the order said was exactly for those who, by their nature, by their speed and by their maximum objectivity, demand. That's the story of a grant... It's very good that I now wonder about the method of selection, but I think it's important to know that the Council of Galicia had to take it out to help the small municipalities to which its deputies — especially Pontevedra's, because that's where the most municipalities were — have left absolutely empty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u122	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u123	Counselor, thank you very much. Let's see, I think we can ask the questions when we consider it appropriate, and that we should do them, and you're here to answer us. Thank you very much. Anyway, I must tell you that when you want to make a subsidisation call only for those municipalities affected by the time, you do so only for those municipalities, because I see here you can be beneficiary of any other municipality; therefore that is not an excuse and does not seem reasonable to me. And what I meant was that before I couldn't, and I'm sure now won't be allowed time either, was that the amount intended to meet this call had an initial credit of 2 million euros, summoned to the DOG on June 27, but July 18 is already running out of this credit. I mean, 20 days after the summons, the credit is exhausted, when there are still eleven days of the deadline that you put in order to file the applications. So, of course! for us, it's a surprise that they make a kind of grant with a non-competitive competition, especially for most municipalities, who didn't know they were going to get out of this kind of grant. Therefore, my question remains clear: why do they not consider it necessary to make a comparison and priority between the applications submitted, taking into account, in addition, Article 19.2 of the Galician Grants Act, because it is precisely exceptional, not usual? Do you realize -- and I know that yes, you realize -- that since the summons come out, those municipalities that don't have that prior knowledge of it have to take care of these projects or projects, as well as budgeting, to be in accordance with the order? And do you realize -- you also realize -- that when you probably have all the documentation, still within the presentation period, you're already running out of credit? So don't tell me they rule for all the municipalities on equal terms. That's what I want you to answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u124	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rodríguez Rumbo. Replica from the Government, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Rodríguez, see if I can get along. It seems good to you that the Deputies of the Coruña and Pontevedra did not meet these councils that asked for temporary damage, but it seems wrong that, apart from the municipalities that had temporary damage and welcomed this order, they could also help other municipalities. That's wrong. Instead, let the......deputations pass from yours, that's not your problem, that's fine. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That we help these and other municipalities, not. By the way, I have to say, look, by setting an example: the Town Hall of Pontecaldelas, which has been very named these days, do you know that he had temporal damage, according to the documentation he has attached, and when we take this order, which is to help the Town Councils of less than 10,000 inhabitants for temporals, he asked for a minigolf? It's just that this is the subject, of course! It's just that if we understand that the selection eventually goes from... and we don't have to be objective and we don't have to be serious, we finally mix everything up. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Mrs. Rodríguez, the problem is we didn't get it out of competitive competition. Hey!, he just took out the Deputy of Pontevedra 40 million euros in 2016, for the Town Hall Plan, for non-competitive competition. What's wrong? What can the Deputy of Pontevedra do in general for the Town Hall Plan, that is, not to help the municipalities that have floods, and we can't do it for help, in many cases of emergency, to municipalities that had neighbors and neighbors incommunicado, who had to give great wheels in order to get to their homes? Who understands this? You know there's a lot of PSOE municipalities that have been able to accommodate these aids, you know there's a lot of PP municipalities that can't be accommodated because they're no longer in the order of priority. What does that mean? What are we warning the PSOE Town Councils and not warning the PP Town Councils? That's what you guys were doing, and you think that's what we're doing? You think this works like this? Those orders that you issued by this system in 2007, several, in the year 2007 and so on, were they doing so? That's why they took this order out? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Is that why there were many municipalities, perhaps the PSOE, benefited and there were no PP municipalities? Look, if it was for that, if you were, we wouldn't, of course. The municipalities that really needed it were welcomed, except for cases like Pontecals, that despite flood damage was more important a mini golf course and I think it was a dance floor, which was the two things that asked for a municipality that had flood damage. Mrs. Rodríguez, I think I have to take this order out, it had to be solved as soon as possible, because there were many municipalities with many problems to which the deputies — particularly coruña, and Pontevedra — told them to settle as they could. We're not like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u126	Thank you, Vice President. Da Carmen Santos Queiruga and D. Luis Villares Naveira, from G.P. of En Marea, on the index of complaints and cases of gender violence registered in the Government of Galicia in 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u127	Question by Mrs Carmen Santos Queiruga of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u128	Good morning to all of you. President of the House, Mr Rueda. I want to ask a question, although a bit invaded by frustration because it is quite frustrating and outrageous, in the middle of the 21st century, to have to listen to certain debates and certain arguments as demagogic as incoherent in such a subject as, painful and as important to so many women as has been done these days in this House. I wanted to express it, above all, because after listening to the president of the board I have to say publicly that I have openly — as they say in my parish — gripped with the level, and I want to express it. I am pleased to be able to ask you this question, Mr. Rueda, because, even if after listening to you there are a lot of things that I disagree with you, or that I think you're pretty much cut off the policies you're implementing, I understand that for you it's quite hard, perhaps, to address these issues by your neoliberal patriarchal ideology, but at least... I see that you're a little less than Mr. Feijóo, so I'd rather ask you. [[Murmurs.]] [[By order of the President, and in the light of Rule 106.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u129	That expression, Mrs. Santos... that expression is withdrawn. That expression is removed from the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u130	Yeah, I take it back, but that doesn't mean you don't think so. [[Murmurs.]] I would like to follow -- if I may be left behind -- to analyze that, as Mr Rueda has said very correctly, macho violence is such a serious problem that it invades all the spaces and all areas of our society. I don't share that it's just a social problem, but I also think it's a political problem that needs to be politically reduced. That is why we have been analysing the official data of the Galician Union on issues of violence, which are published on the institutional website of the General Secretariat of Equality, in which it is stated, according to the annual statistical programme of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2016, adopted by Decree 185/2015 of 23 December, which will establish as one of the statistical operations to be carried out by the General Secretariat of Equality the statistics of gender violence, and in which the data corresponding to the records processed between 1 January and 30 June 2016 are collected. Starting from this, you know, and I hope everyone in this House knows, that violence against women is not limited solely to the personal and family sphere, nor is it limited to that of the private company, but that there are multiple spaces, including the Public Administration, and in this case the Government of Wales, which is its direct responsibility for its management and many issues related to this, in which many cases of macho violence occur. I'll give you a few examples: constant undervaluement of women's jobs compared to colleagues; harassment at work and mobbing, by being women, who suffer from all kinds of public employees, from administrative to cleaners, those who occupy intermediate orders like those who occupy executive positions. I don't think it's necessary to explain...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u131	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u132	...—Yes, I'm done—that public employees are also workers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u133	Thank you. Please put the question to you. Ask the question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u134	We also talk about health and teaching, and I ask the question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u135	Right, but now ask the question, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u136	Calm down! They interrupted me and I wasted my time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u137	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u138	So, as we have no clear data, the question is: What index of complaints and cases of male violence is reported by the Government of Greece, in which we have been in 2016, since it is ending this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u139	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Response by the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. No, Mrs. Santos, who has no clarity of the data nor is it clear that almost nothing is perfectly deduced from the beginning of his intervention. Honestly, when we all wonder why it's so hard to end macho violence, seeing their ideas, a certain deduction. It's just to start a question about violence against the government by calling the president macara, and to say that he's not in the minutes doesn't mean he doesn't think...! Let's say we're not trained to talk about macho violence because of our ideology I don't know what...! [[Applause]] Do you think this is a way...? Really, it's just, if you think about it, I'm really worried about it, I have to say it. I don't know if he'll give me time to answer, actually he had to answer, the question is concrete and I'm going to tell him. It's very worrying that you have those ideas and have that kind of contempt or barrier between you, and I suppose that "yours" -- that's what you'll think -- and the rest of us don't think as you think, and so we're just a bunch of monkeys that we don't have the right to talk about these issues. Well, we have all the right of the world, Mrs. Santos, all the right of the world! I'm sorry that you have these ideas. It's very sad. And I am very sorry to hear them out and make them patent so clearly in this parliamentary intervention. I'm not going to tell you everything I think, I'm telling you enough, but, of course, seeing your ideas, as they say in your parish, I stay, and I suppose we're all here, probably quite a few, quite abrupt or angry or whatever you have said. It's pretty sad and I have to tell you. Having said that, I would say that I agree with some of the things he actually says. In some of the things he says in his exhibition, not what he says right now, what he says in his written exposition. I agree that, indeed, the indexes are worrying, I have already said so in response to Mrs. Pontón's inquiry. I agree it's a problem that's still latent and even growing; probably that's why we have to keep working and we have to keep doing things. I don't agree that society and administration have done anything. I think if you've made significant progress, fortunately, as our obligation was; it's that, if not, you'd have to be very worried. Even though later -- I mean, again -- listening to you, some or some, it seems to cause clear setbacks. But I think we're making progress between us all, and in that sense we have to keep working. And of course I also agree that masculine violence does not occur only in the private sector, it does not occur only in the family environment, it is given in many ways, and it is also given in the labour force. And I'm going to read the exact name of the protocol that we have approved — by all means — with all the unions, the Protocol for the Prevention, Detection, Action and Resolution of Situations of Labour and Other Discrimination at Work in the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, which is in force — you are sure you know — since July this same year. He's been activated already, there's been complaints, there's been actions, but today there's been no complaints in the wake of male violence. If there is a protocol, since 2008 — a better agreement — on geographic mobility among public administrations of public employees who are victims of gender violence. Since then, there have been two cases of gender-based violence...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u142	...which gave rise to a transfer of a functionary from another autonomous community to Galicia and an official, a public worker who worked here in Galicia, and what he did was changed, was transferred from job to job under this agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u144	That did activate the protocol. The truth is there have been no complaints in that protocol that's been working for only five months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u145	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Santos.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u146	First of all, I feel like I'm hurting so many sensibilities. I think we have every right to think and give our opinions, just as you do, exactly the same, that say genuine barbarities and we listen here too, and that's our opinion. Of course, we have a total and absolute commitment to equality and to macho violence. So I also take up Mr Feijóo's word — I think it's curious — and I don't exactly ask about the protocol because he knew it, but if we're so aware of the macho violences, that they exist and that they're real, that there's not one single complaint proves that the work is not doing well and that women are afraid to report it. It doesn't happen like in Germany, which because there's nothing calculated, it turns out that there's no violence in Germany, right, and there's no violence in Germany. What is not calculated does not exist. I'm talking about your facts. Their policies of massive cuts in policies of equality and prevention of macho violence in all their governments, from local education to all levels in the state as well, what they show is that if you say one thing, you take a lot of photos, you get a lot of people walking around the neck with a handkerchief, but then, when you do the real politics, what there is a lot of demagogy, a lot of beatings in your chest, but the reality is that things don't change. We women continue in very serious situations of inequality, suffering violence, in more extreme cases than in others, because in the Maschist violence the most serious end is death, when we are murdered, but there are some previous stages that are not being treated, and of course, I speak with knowledge of cause because I have lots of companions and colleagues in different administrative layers of the Union, of the State, of different bodies, that do not dare to denounce many things that happen to them. So the question goes that way. So, as you've already told me that there is no complaint, please, this is very serious, that women work so that they feel calm to be able to denounce these serious things that happen to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Santos. Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u148	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Santos, if you know cases, you should report them, even if they're not denouncing people. Because of course, to get here and say that you know I don't know if it's hundreds of cases, a lot of cases, but you're gonna tell me and you won't tell me in court, you won't tell me elsewhere, I'm really sorry. I don't know if I really knew or didn't know the existence of this protocol, I suspect I don't, because, if not, the logical thing is that I had wondered if through this path that opened... don't you know it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, it's very sad. Oh, but it doesn't matter, and so I wasn't wondering about him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I have to tell you it's the channel that's been linked between all the unions and the Galician board administration for these complaints. But as I suppose you know a lot of cases, but you don't think it's worth reporting, reporting to those affected, who are the ones who have to suffer them, because then this protocol doesn't make any difference. But do you realize that, in the end, who makes demagogy turn against you, Mrs. Santos? I'm so glad I recognized you said a barbarity in your first intervention. The difference is that we're such barbarities, of course, we don't say them. We respect this whole thing very much, just as we respect, by the way, that march that you said about your clothes in your chest, beating your chest... They're hundreds of people, they're not PP. It's people against macho violence, although it may not be from Podemos, Tideas, or God knows what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u149	Thank you, Vice President. Question by D. Luis Villares Naveira and two other MPs from G.P. of En Marea, on the treatment of information in the media in cases of violence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u150	Question by Mrs Quinteiro Araújo, of the Parliamentary Group of En Marea.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u151	Good morning. Nobody misses the importance of the media precisely when it comes to shaping the public agenda and generating priorities of our society, so today we hope to get a firm commitment from the Greek Government to disappear once and for all the sexist biases that are often given in this information that these media transfer. So they made it manifest again, once again, most of the news published in the cases of the two murdered Greek women last week, which were just, as I say, one more example of all the things that we think are wrong. We believe that there is a need to strengthen legislative improvements in this matter, without a doubt important, not to say that it is not, but clearly insufficient. Unfortunately, the norm is useless if it is not applied and if the content of the information continues to be repeatedly given from the wrong perspective. Special mention deserves the Greek public media, which, disregarding their social function and being paid by all of us, often reproduces the worst practices of private media. And I'm going to talk about the practices that I believe should not be done. It's intolerable for the media to continue talking about deaths or deaths of women spontaneously and not using the term murder, which is what they really are. And this might look like a secondary nuance, but it's not at all because we're not dying spontaneously, they're killing us, and we have to use language rigorously and also ask for it to be used. It's not just about expression. Language not only reproduces, it also produces ideas, it's also able to produce and explain how things happen, why these feminicides happen, and it must be clear: they're feminicides, they're not accidental deaths. Because often these cases continue to be treated as events, as inexplicable facts, a dead woman appears, one more, one more, when they are not. There are specific causes for these issues to pass and socialize them in the media as well. It's true, I admit it, that there has been a significant change in the information processing of these issues in recent years, and it's moved from private space to public space, you don't almost ever talk about passionate crimes anymore, but there are a lot of ideas that are still impregnated and that have a sexist approach. First of all, we have to end the individualized approach that takes place on murders, which often reveals characteristics that make women more vulnerable or prone, like when they talk about lovers, race, nationality or employment. Secondly, he usually enjoys a privileged position in the conduct of the victims, and we have to stop talking about the previous complaints, that he was alone, that he was left with an unknown... We don't want you to tell us in the news how we have to walk to avoid aggression, just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u152	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u153	...we don't have to be careful, we just have to be free.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u155	And finally, we have to end with the pathological vision of the batterers, because this vision helps us to get a veiled justification for the facts and really prevents...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u157	I'm asking the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u158	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u159	The evaluation that makes these last two cases in the media, if they consider there to be some failure or something to improve, and if they're willing to make the necessary self-criticism...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u160	Thank you. [[Applause]] Response by the Vice-President and Counsellor of the Presidency, Public Administration and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u161	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Quinteiro, it's not an easy answer. Besides, you ask me if we're going to make self-criticism about how the media reflect the killings of macho violence... so you can see how complicated it is to talk about this! You ask for an assessment, which is almost as much as an opinion, of a subject that is — as Mr Zapatero says — debated and questionable, without any doubt. What's a lot to improve on? No doubt about it. Like everything that has to do with macho violence. Now there's also the right to information, there's also the freedom of professionals and the media to know how they want to give that information. Logically, according to codes of conduct, without any doubt, but we'll also have to take that into account. So we can, in any case, give an assessment/opinion — I insist — of a subject that is controversial and controversial. He used to tell Mrs. Santos, in the lucky part of her intervention. He was talking about fighting against male violence from many fronts — and I agree — from prevention, from education, from persecution and punishment of the culprits, and also, without any doubt, from awareness. And then, of course, the media have a lot to say and are responsible, of course, for what they transmit and how they transmit it, how they tell it, how they perceive what they tell, how they feel what they're transmitting and what they're reporting about. I admit that you can have different views, you can have different opinions, and I think in this case -- and the test is the time you've been discussing -- the most expert on this topic -- I'm certainly not, I don't know if you are -- you don't agree. There are, therefore, things that will have to reach consensus. There's something that draws my attention to the written part of the question you're asking. I don't know if I understood, but let's go, saying that a means of communication speaks to a newly detained person like the one who allegedly killed the woman who was a victim of macho violence and didn't call her a murderer directly, that turns the media into a purchasing medium with the author, I think that that's not fair, nor is it adjusted to the rule of law, nor, of course, we're going to share it, frankly. I think the right to the presumption of innocence, even in these hard cases that we all condemn, is... I guess you didn't mean that, so I'm just making it manifest, because, if you don't, we're never going to agree, Mrs. Quinteiro. I think we've moved on. We've moved on quite a bit -- you said -- since macho crimes used to be called passionate crimes, as if passion had something to do with this and how to justify something. Fortunately, no one talks anymore about crimes of passion, and no longer talks about crimes of macho violence on the pages of events as if it were one more event, plunged into other events. We've made a lot of progress. What's a long way to go? No doubt about it, but we've made enough progress. And we have to move forward, always taking into account and working with the right to information...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u162	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u163	...and the freedom of the informers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u164	Thank you, Vice President. Replica, Mrs. Quinteiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u165	The truth is, I'm hallucinated, because I thought we could come to an agreement on this subject. I hope that when we turn this issue into a debate in full enough time — obviously this is just a question, and it is a subject that deserves a peaceful debate — we come to agreements, but I have no intention of doing so. I know, I've also studied the laws, all the laws, and the codes, but I'm telling you that it's worth little by little these legislative advances that I already know exist, that in paper there are many issues that cannot be done, when then the media skip these codes and these laws and nothing is done at all. We'll be doing something wrong, and I don't think it's incredible that they don't recognize it, when on one news, if you ever find out a woman's guilt for not reporting it. Even though of course, listening to Mr Feijóo, when he himself says, "Denunciate, you have a phone, you have all the measures for the administration...!, it seems incredible! Maybe women don't complain about other issues. You'll have to think, won't you? Why don't we report women without a paternalistic attitude toward them. [[Applause]] Then continue to sew us into the media. News this past week: Woman, that a life is worth more because she's prettier, whether she's smarter or less, whether she's of a certain nationality or not. This cannot be repeated on any of these features. Another issue that is still being raised in the media. Even when they kill us, we remain irremediably bound to most of the time to a man, we continue to be the daughters, women or companions of a man who always seems to be more important than ourselves. They, however, always seem to be, in most news, good neighbors and normal neighbors. I really think the situation would be much closer to being solved when things are called by their name: they're feminicides, they're avoidable. So I don't understand why you deny that the media do bad things. It's not an attack on journalists and journalists; it requires resource allocation; it requires specific gender training as well as journalism.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Quinteiro. [[Applause]] Lockdown, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u167	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Quintore, I haven't told you that the media are doing all right on this subject, I've told you from the beginning; another thing is what you want to understand. Tell me we're not reaching any agreement. You're asking me a question and I'm asking an answer. Of course! But as it usually happens to you, when you don't like the answer to the question you ask me, then you say they're amazed, hallucinated, and that to call us macaras there's a step, which today has crossed and you can cross more times. But this is democracy, in having different views, Mrs Quinteiro, although they do not agree, and among all of them trying to reach good agreements for citizenship — which it puts us here — also to fix this issue, which is what they don't understand. That's what you don't understand. So, if it's not what you think, if we don't demonize the media here directly because they don't do anything right on this subject... of course there's a lot of things that hurt, but something is doing well too! Apart from the laws, I suppose from the conviction, to realize that this is an evolution, that there is a serious problem that needs to be addressed, and also from the media. Hey, you've taken some important steps, I've told you. And the media are aware that they have to have a specific treatment for macho violence and the events they report about macho violence when they have good practice codes; they do training courses, some of them with collaboration from the Galician Council and others on their own initiative or other bodies; when there are agreements signed, as one between the General Secretariat of Equality and the CRTVG Company for the treatment of information given on male violence. Man, of course we need to keep improving! The media and all of us, there will be no doubt. It's hard to get better when you get here and say the president of Galicia talks about complaints. Hey! Of course we have to talk about complaints! Of course, we have to tell women that they have to report, of course it must be said — even if they are not valued — that we approve a protocol that is the channel that guarantees confidentiality within the Council of Galicia and the Administration so that public workers can report. Oh, that they report, if they want, I don't have to say anything! I'm here to say, as her companion said, that there are cases and that's it, and that's it! No, no, we have to say that there are channels to do this, that there are facilities, that there is anonymity, confidentiality, and effectiveness in the processing of these complaints. Of course, we must be encouraged to denounce, of course, we must do a lot of things. What you can't think of, Mrs. Quinteiro, is that, if we don't agree exactly with what you want, it's no longer worth saying anything else, that it deserves nothing more than saying that they're amazed, that our ideology prevents us from seeing what we have before, and that we're all -- but then we'll be millions -- some macaras. I don't know if it'll be the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u168	Thank you. Question by D. Xosé Luís Bará Torres and five other Members of the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the assessment of the Government of Galicia in relation to the level of execution that presents the investments planned for Galicia in State budgets in the first half of 2016
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u169	Mr. Bará Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u170	Yes, very good morning. Counsellor, this question refers to the data published in relation to state investments in Galicia and the execution of budgets. It's data coming from the General State Intervention and talking about levels of execution, of course, that are alarmingly low and that are at least historical on this subject. They speak in the first half of 2016 of the total budget execution 16.6 %. Most of them are public companies, which manage something more than EUR 1 billion, which had a 16% execution. And in the case of Adif, who has as its obligation to build railway infrastructure, this level of execution is still lower and was located in the first half of the year at 13.4%. So this is about the state administration's paralysis situation, the paralysis of infrastructures that are vital and fundamental to the development of this country and that has serious consequences for the economy as well. It must be borne in mind that public work is an important element for economic dynamisation and job creation. And it also presupposes failure to comply with government commitments in relation to the construction deadlines for important infrastructures, including the rail connection with the Meseta, which has already been announced to go beyond the promised deadline, the third or fourth committed term, which was in 2018. Well, in view of this situation, we heard in this House justifications such as the President of the Board, blaming this fact for the state government's paralysis for the political blockade — in this case they don't blame the Government of Ponte Caldelas or the Bipartite — for the political blockade in the state over the year 2016, after the elections of December 2015, that there was a government in virtually one year. And this is an excuse, because we know that governments in function, of course, make decisions, we know it perfectly; even decisions that are beyond what their competences and obligations are in function -- and I quote you, for example, the case of Ence or the Reganosa case -- decisions to promote private interests being in function. That's why they make decisions. On the other hand, there is no excuse for paralyzing administrative machinery when it comes to fulfilling an approved budget, the 2015 budget, to carry out works that were contracted, to carry out follow-up and impulse of works that were contracted. So my questions in this regard are concrete. We want to know the assessment of this low-implementation situation by the Government and its council, of historical low-implementation figures, if you are concerned about this situation, and, above all, we want to know what management has done to the Government of Greece before the Government of the State to speed up the execution of the budgets and the fulfilment of the commitments made in public works, and specifically in railway infrastructures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u171	Thank you, Mr Bará. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u172	Thank you, President. Mr Bará, for once I will answer your question by telling you that I agree with your reflection. It's not innocent, it's true. In 2016 the execution of Adif is very low. But the truth is, in the rest of his question, I don't fully agree, because the fact is that an infrastructure that really experienced a substantial change in Galicia, of course, was the railway, a transformation of the railway system, of course yes. You have to look at the land, with facts, and territorial reality, lines, services and reduced travel times. And it's because there's a government that bets firmly. It's proven with facts, with palpable realities in the territory, Mr Bará. There's the Atlantic axis, which strengthens connectivity, increases the supply of squares by 40% and reduces travel times. The Atlantic axis allows you to be in just over an hour between La Coruña and Vigo on the railway, and therefore we have a real meter of surface in the autonomous community. And we also have advances in connection with the Meseta, of course. The third Olmedo-Zamor was put into service — half an hour of reduced journey time —. I think we should not forget that all the thirds of the AVE in connection with Madrid, except the Ourense variant, are on duty or in works, all of them. So we have contractors, we have contracts and we have investments. Of course there's work to be done, and that's why we're asking the Ministry of Development for agility. For us, it's a priority, we've always seen it being said, and we insist on the Ministry of Development that we have to make decisions that are committed to the high-speed line, and that's how the president of the board has transferred it to the minister himself on December 5th. But, Mr Bará, since you are talking about public works — which I am pleased to be affixed to by public works — we all know that large infrastructures require great efforts, big jobs, projects, contracts bids and also resolving incidences, solving incidences in works that have a lot of difficulties. The orography of Galicia we all know is quite different from that of Castile. So a complexity that needs to be added to the exceptional political situation, of course. In no way does it contribute that there is a political blockade for a year for the axillization of jobs, of course it affects almost a year without government, of course it affects executive capacities. And, above all, in my opinion, there's a major responsibility -- a chief in charge in my opinion, which I'm sure you don't share, but it's mine -- that was a party, of course, of what you were government partners. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u173	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Bará Torres' reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u174	Well, the budget execution data for 2016 are, of course, very low, very worrisome, but it's just that 2015 figures were, too. Because the execution data for 2015 are already published and it turns out that in the case of railway infrastructures a level of execution of 39.6% has been reached. So that excuse for the political blockade, because we're not worth it. There are contracted works, there is a budget in force, there is a government that acts and that has to boost and dynamize the contracts and the execution of the works. So we're not worth it. In addition, because it repeats year after year the low-implementation data of budgets, as happened last year, in total and above all in railway infrastructures. And what is the attitude of the People's Party? For the double personality, the double conduct. You say one thing here and another in Madrid. When ruling the PSOE in the State they denounced and demanded compliance with the deadlines, the execution of the works. And now that a friendly government governs because they shut up and grant, as they did in the case of AP-9, giving the vote here and putting in Madrid the veto for the law passed by the German Parliament. They therefore adopt a submissive and obedient attitude, in the hiring of works and in the execution of deadlines, and in all the subjects that are pending. Because you talked to us here about the Atlantic axis, but there are still a lot of outstanding issues, for example, the connection with Portugal or the improvement of the whole service and the creation of a true proximity and connection service for the towns and cities of Greece. Therefore, this attitude of the Government of Feijóo, the Government of the Union, contrasts with other governments, such as the government of Euskadi, of which we have recently seen a clear example when it was planted in the case of the work of the AVE in Bilbao and Victoria demanding an agreed, effective solution to bury the roads, and forcing the Minister of Development to accept that proposal from the Basque Government. There they defend the country's interests firmly and vigorously, and here we see how there is a helpful attitude, kneeling and vassaling at the government's taxes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u175	Thank you, Mr Bará. The lady's closing shift.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u176	Thank you, President. Our attitude is to claim and ask for what other autonomous communities already have, as we've seen. And of course the political blockade was the main protagonist of the low execution of 2016, because the blockades, Mr Bará, do not go out for free, do not go out in the polls or go out for free, of course, in the quality of life of the citizens. And of course the blockade has prevented further progress. If you want to talk about reality, I'll ask you. I don't know if you know who located Galicia on the high-speed map, because of course it wasn't... since it wasn't the BNG who placed Galicia on the high-speed map, you know, it was the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If you prefer specific commitments from the Ministry of Development, tenders and adjudications, also in the area of railway infrastructure, it is EUR 4.1 billion that have been mobilised in rail connection investments. But I insist that all the truces that connect Ourense to Madrid, except the variant of Ourense, are either in service or running. And so that's why we've made a lot of progress, moving only from the lines to the reality of the territory and having contractors, contracts and investments there. When you asked for the 8% budget for Galicia in the state, there were few because what this government put down was 12%; therefore, there were few asking for 8% of the state's budgets for Galicia. I think the government of Spain's high speed bet is palpable, they're striving for high speed impulse. The minister so moved on, and to us it is irrevocable. We have seen him demanding and insisting that the priority is to arrive in Galicia and arrive in Ourense. And I insist that, of course, the political blockade has an impact. With a government in full powers, in record time, of five unblocked thirds are already in motion, unblocked. Therefore, it is very important that a government with full powers to resolve and to make decisions, of course it is important. I'll wait, and we'll wait, in January, for the Ministry to make an assessment on this. Special situations soon requiring special measures. Mr. Bará, of course we won't be in line until AVE arrives in Galicia, we'll be vigilant and vigilant. Because what we want, of course, is that the advantages of AVE come to the Greeks as soon as possible. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u177	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Luís Rivas Cruz, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the action of the Greek Government in the face of the threats of the aquifers and the destruction of the singular stop that forms the contour of the birth of the Myo River, in the so-called Pedregal of Irimia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u178	Mr. Rivas Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u179	"When in the morning of St. John gives the ray in a certain stone in the vicinity of the castle, a beautiful fairy of luxurious hair spreads her shop and shows herself to the first young man that goes by, proposing a complicated riddle, that he should decipher correctly if he wants to get his love and the valuable treasures he keeps. It belongs to the strain of the Moors, magical inhabitants of this country at other times, who had to flee in a hurry and let it watch over the abundant wealth and enchanted treasures." This could be the beginning of one of the thousands of legends that surround the magic fog of the symbolic places of this matrix and that the Greeks of my age were still lucky to hear in the mouth of our older relatives and neighbors. In this way, for our unlettered and unlettered people in written documentary history, and so many times silenced or twisted by paid, stimulated or threatened historians, this was — I repeat — the way to mark and mark the magical, symbolic or sacred places of our culture. Thus, no one dared to till too deep in a chest, to launder his pits, to destroy a breast or to blow up a well of a river, or the pennies that millennia ago were paleolytic shelters. All of this was and is marked by the word "mour", by maurus, ancestor or ancestor, and the supernatural magic that preserved them from the aggressions of fearless and barbaric merchants, who always go to practical and profitable and who do not want to know anything about it because of the collective property called "identity." One of these legends speaks of a place where a race of violent, antisocial and unbelieving beings, the antithesis of the human race, were turned into hairs and condemned to be swallowed by the waters almost eternally until they washed their guilt. So, in short, he prays one of the many legends that surround the Irimia pedregal, located in the outskirts of the Meira saw. This pedregal consists of 700 meters of glacial brunette with large hairs. If one goes up on those already mentioned regrets, you can hear the singing of the waters without knowing the true science if they are underground or it's the crows who covered a noisy stream. This water is born of numerous aquifers distributed along the greenhouse, which come to be gathered in a fountain at the top of the pedregal. The fact is, at the end of the croissant funnel, there's a clean water stream that runs forming the "Minius" just born. It would therefore be the main source, or, in order not to enter local litigation, one of the main sources of what will be, lands below, the main river of Galicia. This is — they believe me — a unique place, of enormous geological value, landscape and symbolic, compulsory visit to every geography tour of Galicia that is being prayed for. Geological value, by its originality and by being a place of transition; landscape, because it has unique characteristics in our geography; and symbolic, because, if Mine is Galician father, we well preserve its birth from any aggression, preserving its originality for the enjoyment and study of schoolchildren and citizens in general.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u180	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u181	In recent times...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u182	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u183	...at least four or five decades—just a small paragraph—
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u184	Then do it. Make the paragraph. Do it. [[Murmurs.]] Do it. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Sorry, I didn't believe this, we've been in Parliament all our lives, it's not my invention. Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u185	For all the exposed and what I wanted to expose, and in view of the alarm created in this singular enclave of geological, cultural and symbolic interest, have the Greek Government planned measures that provide environmental and landscape protection to aquifers and the contour that make up the birth of the Minor River... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u187	...on the so-called Irimia Pedregal?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u188	That's right. That's it. Thank you. Response from the Territorial Environment and Planning Adviser.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u189	The truth is that I would also ask the President to give him more time, because it is true that his intervention deserves no other kind of qualifier that is beautiful because it reminds us of these legends that make up our history and our culture, and of course, it is good to always talk about them here in this Parliament, and more when you come to defend a location as insignificant, as prominent and as symbolic as it is in our community the placement of this Pedregal of Irimia — as you said — because it is possible, the birth of the father of our community, which is the My River. But beyond the beauty of his intervention, I have to realise my answer, which must be, as it cannot be otherwise, clarify that the main commitment of the Government of Galicia from this council cannot be anything other than the protection, conservation and placing in value of this rich natural heritage that we have in our community. As you know, in our community we have a wide range of natural spaces of enormous value. We have a Greek network of protected spaces that is made up of 96 spaces; that is, almost 12% of our territory is within this Greek network of protected spaces. And the importance, beyond statements — as you also said — must be accompanied by the budget of the Council of Galicia. In these 2017 budgets, the Directorate-General for Natural Heritage, which depends precisely on the protection of these spaces, is going to have a budgetary increase of 5.3%, up to over EUR 27.5 million, in order to make reality, for example, the necessary reinforcement we have of investment in natural parks, by setting an example, promoting not only their protection, but also sustainable tourism measures that make it possible to share not only the legends, but also our nature. So just a few days ago, we presented the first promotion plan and put into value the natural heritage of our autonomous community, where there will obviously be an investment to develop over the next four years 29 specific measures. We will expand the Natura Network, thus also responding to a non-law proposition by your group, the Galician Nationalist Block; we will also expand the Natura Network; we will also continue the development of the Galician Biosphere Reserve Network; and we will also develop a new natural heritage law, and we will work to introduce the start of this new law in the next hundred days. This new law, somehow, will regulate the different forms of protection. From the environment, in parallel not only to natural protection, but also landscape, we're putting the development of the Landscape Strategy through the Institute of Studies in the Territory. In that landscape Atlas there is already an approved catalogue and there are also guidelines, where we are working, which are about to be approved this year 2017. And there are 211 areas of special landscape interest — i.e. 8.5% of the territory of Galicia — and precisely...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u191	...the area you're interested in...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u192	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u193	...is an area already listed as of special interest landscape.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u194	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u195	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u196	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Rivas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u197	...it's the stop. That's beautiful, not my intervention. Look, a slow-growth oak, pulls about 400 liters of water into the atmosphere, every day, from the ground; the eucalyptus, which is of rapid growth, draws three, four or five times more. That stop we're talking about is surrounded by eucalyptus moments that have only one meter. We didn't ask him to spend any money. We asked him for his intention. It's just to protect that stop from aggression, to leave it as it is, not to intervene. The best thing human beings can do with the singular stops is not to touch them; admire them and not to touch them. So you can also hand over the Law 9/2001, which preserves nature, which establishes the figure of natural monument — and nothing happens — which simply says that these spaces or elements of nature are basically formed by formations of singularity, rareness or beauty that deserve to be the object of special protection. We're not asking for anything from the other world. We know we have a lot... and we also know what is done with the Natura Network many times, don't we? The biggest problem with human beings is having machines that can destroy themselves. And in this case, we only ask for the right margin to be protected, because the left is already protected. Believe me, visit him, and you'll see that they agree to protect him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u198	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u199	Well, Mr Rivas, we are indeed aware of the value of the Pedregal area, both from a symbolic point of view — as you said in your first intervention — as well as from a landscaped point of view. And so in some way, after having an open process with a great deal of participation on both the part of society and the part of technicians, this is one of the areas that today is classified as an area of special landscape interest, where there will also be special protection. In these areas there are different values, beyond landscape, even cultural and, obviously, also natural; values that are of great ecological importance. And indeed, any action that can be carried out in these areas of particular landscape interest, since the guidelines are fully adopted, will need a report from the Institute for the Studies of the Territory. These guidelines — as you said — of landscape protection, in which we will also talk about the possibilities that may exist or cannot have to plant these types of trees, are now in the process of allegations — even now. I therefore invite you to study them and even present the allegations you consider appropriate, because after they are actually approved, there will be reports that will protect these 211 areas even more, if appropriate. As you know, today the area of the Pedregal of Irimia does not have any specific environmental protection, but I am prepared to evaluate what you are asking me, which is one of them, which is the monument, and indeed the natural monument must be the initiative of the Council of Galicia, of the administrations. But also, of course, there can be any other figure of natural protection, which consists of us — at least mediatically — that was adopted in the middle of the Meira Town Hall but has not yet reached the Council of Galicia. So, if you ever arrive, you will be evaluated and you will be studied if that figure is the right one to take it forward. If it comes, because for now we have no communication, beyond that — as you know — is part of the Biosphere Reserve. Besides, in some ways, what I believe is that, if I do, the word alarm is not the right word to defend what you stand for in this question, and that coincides with the objective of this council and the Government of the Council of Galicia, which is to protect these areas, which will guarantee the best inheritance we can leave to our children and our daughters. So, obviously, on that path I'll find myself. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u200	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, about the information of the Government of Galicia regarding the resumption of the works in the sections of the high-speed line in the province of Lugo paralysed by the Ministry of Development
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u201	Question by Mr Álvarez Martínez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Give Mr. Álvarez Martínez a voice, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u202	I'm already lit up. Thank you very much, Mr. President, and the Chamber's technical services too. Surely, because of the question, my intervention will not be as beautiful by far as my companion has just done. In any case, it is true that the stops I'm going to refer to are indeed of a beautiful comparable, possibly, to the Irimia Pedregal, since I'm going to talk about the train line between Ourense and Lugo. Look, today we approve and support a non-Legal proposal by the People's Party for a series of improvements on the railway between Ourense and Lugo because we consider them necessary, we consider them relevant, and that's why we support them. I support that, by the way, one owes itself to a PNL that looks more like a remake of Saving Private Ryan in version save Private Feijóo, because there seem to be certain similarities between that single remaining child, which had to be rescued, with an autonomous president who after revaliding for the third time an absolute majority seems abandoned, at least — to use a smooth term, by the People's Party at the state level. There is no need to remember the last and unfortunate statements made by the Flemish Minister of Development, Mr. Iñigo de la Serna, who alleged the way out of the entire People's Party of Galicia to say that what that minister was saying — supported by that very People's Party in Madrid — could not be true, that there had to be some severe conceptual error in what he was saying because he was not adjusting to reality. Look, the sad reality is that after the rule of Mr. Mariano Rajoy, of the first Government of the absolute majority, where he could do what he considered relevant, all investments aimed at improving the high-speed community between Ourense and Lugo were paralyzed. In 2014 we discovered that the project of Lugo Intermodal Station was also paralysed in the Ministry of Development. That is if, at that time Mr. José Manuel Barreiro — a voice from the People's Party in the Senate — reassured us very much, because he literally said: "To arrive later at Lugo does not make sense now to accommodate the project of the intermodal station, which would involve an investment of more than 650,000 euros". That's because the high speed would get to Lugo after the Ourense. So far it seems consistent. But the argument that why are we going to invest now if Ourense is going to arrive later?, especially considering that we are on the horizon, at best, of the year 2022, I ask: what date does Lugo put this to us with regard to that high-speed connection? So my question is, if you are aware of the government's knowledge of whether the work of the high-speed sections will be resumed in the province of Lugo paralysed by decision of the Ministry of Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u203	Thank you. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u204	Thank you, President. A few moments ago I had the opportunity to address and debate high speed in Galicia. I think the position of the German Government was made clear where we have to focus our efforts first, which is the connection with the Meseta. That's the first goal to reach Galicia, we understand it's the most urgent challenge, but I agree with you that we must also take the necessary steps so that Lugo is also in that plan to improve the quality rail connection for the neighbors and neighbours of Lugo. In any case, about what you say about saving Private Ryan, etc., I just think about it: if Lugo's own mayor congratulated the president of the board publicly! I think the president of the board is doing quite well so that the Socialist Mayor of Lugo publicly congratulates the President of the board; the truth is he is doing well and claiming what he has to claim before the Ministry of Development. We want Lugo's neighbours to get better than railway lines and services, of quality, competitive, modern. And, of course, Lugo is located in the surroundings of the three hours in railway connection. That's why we're working, and we've seen him defending himself before the Ministry of Development and in all the forums that correspond. In the investment speech, the president of the board himself focused on a priority, priority number one, the Lugo-Monforte-Uurense railway connection. I saw Parliamentary here, in the GNP you commented on, and also asking for it from the Ministry of Development. Of course we asked the Ministry of Development to include in its railway planning the different phases to connect Lugo with Ourense. What we want, what we ask for, is planning, programming, viable, realistic, that is assumed; rigorously technically, to be of quality, and, of course, that implies a real improvement in the reduction of travel times, that we are around three hours. In that we are, and what I ask of you is responsibility, unity and collaboration, to achieve all this and that the State's 2017 budgets can be approved, because I think it's fundamental. Unit, I think we saw it today at the PNL vote this morning. So unity is absolutely necessary. But, of course, I think to avoid again the political blockades we had in a year in Madrid, which allows us to move forward is to have budgets. So what I hope is a unit to approve the 2017 State budgets and that we can move forward on Lugo's railway line, that Lugo may be as soon as possible, of course, less than three hours. For my part, nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u205	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u206	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Counselor, once as soon as possible it's no time limit, it's as soon as possible. In any case, by paraphrasing the President of the Galician Council in this Parliament itself, when he said that the Greeks are good but we are not fools, the ones of Lugo are also good but we are not fools. And I also tell you: there is absolutely no problem in which the Mayor of Lugo recognizes the words of Mr. President of the Board, because in addition to Lugo we are also honest and grateful, and that is why we thank the support given to us; and they are well received because they are support, that is obvious. [[Applause]] But look, I'm just asking you is whether you know the German Government whether you're going to resume the works or not. Because, of course, when Mr. President of the Board at the Higher Polytechnic School of Road Engineers, Channel and Ports gets creative and says that "we are in the last room of the party" — as if this were a basketball game — and says, "and in the last room there are almost always extensions." What do you want us to think? Actually, what you just said is that it's as soon as possible, but we're going to admit any extensions that are necessary, because look, frankly, I think it's been a long time to admit to the central government so much extension and so much abandonment in the high speed connection between Ourense and Lugo. And you know why? Because we've been waiting for too many years for that connection to be made, and an improvement that we've approved today on the current network is not going to solve the problem. What we want is an equal treatment with the rest of the Greeks. So frankly, if you'd told me if you knew whether the works were going to be resumed or not beyond a warrantum...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u208	...I'd go back to the happy place...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u209	Thank you very much, Mr. Álvarez Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u210	...and I'd say: the Counselor answered me.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u211	Thank you. Thank you very much. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u212	Thank you, President. I insist again, of course, that the board supports and shares, of course, the high speed connection with Lugo. And of course we're leading that claim to the Ministry of Development, so we're doing it because we believe it's fair. And I insist again, with facts and working on the electoral program, on the president's investment speech. with parliamentary initiatives. Also by personally requesting the Minister of Development that Lugo cannot stand aside from this railway planning and that Lugo be connected in less than three hours; that we have asked the Minister, that the Minister is committed, and that he was ratified, of course, at the meeting I had last Thursday with the Secretary of State himself. We had a meeting and of course we approached the railway connection with Lugo, and I think we can see important progress. In the poor version of San Xiao, the approval tests will be the year 2017; therefore, in 2017 we hope to be able to have savings in travel time. We have also come forward that the next third in which they are already working will be the variant of Canabal; therefore the next will be the variant of Canabal. We're moving forward on the railway line, but what we're also thinking -- as I said at the outset -- is that it has to be viable and realistic, and that's why it's going through stages, to improve times for phase-by-step. The goal is that Lugo has a competitive railway line of quality and, I insist, it's less than three hours; we demand that we move. About the intermodal station, which you said at first, we're working, there are the budgets, and in the first quarter of 2017 of course we'll get the studies to advance what the intermodal station is in Lugo. We're defending the interests of Lugo's neighbours, of course. And of course they're not fools of Lugo's neighbours, I'd just miss them! And we lead — I insist — that claim. What I also hope is that they don't put themselves on wheels. It is important, to advance on that railway line, that Lugo is less than three hours away from Madrid, and to have budgets in 2017. That's why I insist that there are no wheeled sticks, that the 2017 budget is not blocked, because, of course, having no budget is not good for any matter, but not for infrastructures either. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u213	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and four other Members of the G.P. Galician Popular, about the content that the Sergas Acute and Help Program will have
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u214	Question by Mr Aurelio Núñez Centeno, of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u215	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Good morning, Counselor of Health. On November 16th, we met through the media on the launch of a new program from the Health Council. This program, called Acute and Help, of the Galego Health Service, will be piloted through the Public Health Emergency Foundation 061. We all have clear that the presence or appearance of a person trained in cardiopulmonary resuscitation, either by being a healthcare professional or by knowing the different techniques instead of a cardiovascular event, depends solely on chance; that is, it's a matter of luck. It's scientificly demonstrated that early action at an acute cardiovascular event, whether assythology or ventricular fibrillation, with appropriate means and knowledge in the matter conditions the prognosis to prevent death and minimize possible sequelae, with the loss of quality of life that may entail them. The 061 serves an average of 780 incidents of sudden death each year, which indicates the high incidence of this serious painting. It is public — it appears reflected in an article in New England magazine, of the most prestigious medicine— a report of the strategy at the extra-hospital cardiorespiratory stop that, in short, comes to appreciate the importance of this problem, to confirm that cardiopulmonary resuscitation by witnesses to the event improves survival, and to indicate that the massive formation of the population, including from school, increases witnesses who dare to practice a CPR, although it is only with thoracic compression, with heart massage. The content of this scientific study is clear, Counsellor, that we have to form the population from the school stage in the techniques of cardiac arrest resuscitation and that we have to facilitate the arrival of these trained people at the place of the event. To facilitate this last aspect, you launch this Acute and Help Program. Given the importance and impact at the social level that we think this programme should have, and in order to spread among the population the importance of training non-professionals in these maneuvers, is it why we would like it to answer this question at parliamentary level: What will the announced Acude and Help Programme consist of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u216	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u217	Good day again, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Núñez Centeno. Yes, the goal we have with the Acute and Help Program is undoubtedly very relevant, as it has basic life-support knowledge and tools for it to start as soon as it's fundamental: it's about saving lives. Our health professionals are prepared for this, however, we must bear in mind the fact that sudden death is a condition that mostly occurs outside hospitals, outside health centres. To get an idea of the magnitude of the problem, we can point out that the 061 serves in Galicia approximately 780 incidents of sudden death each year outside the hospital. Anyone can witness a cardiorespiratory stop both in the home and in the street, in places of work or leisure. Hence the importance of forming the population in knowledge about cardiopulmonary resuscitation and also knowing how to act in these situations, because precisely people who are not necessarily health-care witnesses of the cases can start this cardiopulmonary resuscitation waiting for health services to arrive. The Acute & Help Program is based on an application, an APP, with public information for citizens about the emergency services of the Galician Health Service. This application was developed with the Everis company within the framework of the innovation projects of Hospital 2050 and Innova Saúde, as we have discussed earlier in the case of the extension of Ourense hospital, through the public procurement formula of innovative technology. Also in Galicia, within the European Union, we have been highlighted for using this type of purchase; a public purchase that seeks to improve not only the conditions of health services, but also, at the same time, the transparency that there should be in every purchase with public funds. This volunteering and citizenship app shows services linked to health emergencies and emergencies. In particular, I would like to stress that it provides the geolocation of defibrillators and other health emergency resources. Tell us exactly in each area where we have defibrillators or where we have 061 services; also online consultations, first aid performance guidelines or consultation of the state of the episode in the patient's hospital emergency services. The pilot project that we have been developing for a month and peak in the Santiago de Compostela area — as I will put it below — essentially consists of a real-time communication system with volunteers to start the cardiopulmonary resuscitation maneuvers, if stopped, as soon as possible. The initial scope will be the city of Compostela itself, based on the Red Cross volunteer network, in communication and coordination with the central 061 and managed around the mobile application. The process will start when someone detects a cardiac arrest and calls 061 from this app, or from the cell phone itself. At the center of 061 where the call geolocalizes the patient, the ambulance is sent and, in parallel, the nearest volunteers and defibrillators are located.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u218	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u219	This is how volunteers can be activated from the centre...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u221	...to start cardiopulmonary resuscitation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u222	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u223	... as long as the device of 061 does not reach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u224	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u225	Thank you, Counselor, for the presentation on the Acuide and Help Program of the Galician Health Service. We all know the importance of cardiopulmonary resuscitation techniques, basically heart massage and mouth-to-mouth breathing. But we are also aware of the existence of ventricular fibrillation paintings or pulseless ventricular tachycardia, which are clinical situations where it is inevitably necessary to use a defibrillator. In recent years, it has advanced the placement of these appliances in competing places such as commercial areas, large companies or sports stadiums; and also in sports facilities: swimming pools, gymnasiums or even football fields in lower categories. We are convinced that the number of these devices will increase progressively depending on their lowest price and the ease of use of automatic or semi-automatic defibrillators. This is going to make private companies and public entities decide to buy them for their facilities in recent years. But in any case, an enforceable guarantee is that the person or persons in charge of the apparatus are periodically recycled in their use and that the defibrillators pass the necessary controls and technical inspections. Having people around the APP to contact the affected person and the defibrillator locator seems to us to be an important step forward in the initial treatment of this severe pathology. We would like to thank the People's Parliamentary Group for the collaboration of an entity as prestigious as the Red Cross and the volunteers who participate in this innovative experience. We hope, for the sake of the citizens of Greece, that this piloting initiative will be a success and that it can be extended to the entire population in our community. That's why we asked him: Could we indicate what results are expected from the development of this program? And also, do you have any plans for the installation and use of defibrillators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u226	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u227	Basically, logically, we are concerned about the incidence of mortality — as it says — outside the health system; those 780 deaths that occurred in the last year and were recorded as such. And, of course, the goal is to lower the areas by following the parameters of the few countries at European level who are trying to bring it down to 4 or 5%. What do you get with this? The first one is fundamental what you say in the question, which is to increase the number of defibrillators located by geography. It's also very important that they're registered, so the APP, through 061, has a record of all the defibrillators. And a fundamental part, that the population is formed, and we are very interested in it in a very fundamental way that is the new generations. In fact, there is a research project that is doing 061, which is called Angels, and what it is about precisely seeing from what age the resuscitation is effective; children since years must be formed, because – as you know – the resuscitation needs certain physical effort, and at this point we are in the study phase. I think in a few days you can tell us the 061 is also that important part. Then, this whole project is coordinated by the Spanish Society of Cardiology, which was an idea that I had to do at the Spanish level, and it begins with Galicia, because here he found professionals and interest from the Greek public service on the move. Logically, we're going to move forward. In fact, we are modifying the decree that was so far about the use of defibrillators, which for us was excessively rigid. We're going to try to make it more accessible, because the important thing is that anyone with a minimum training can do that resuscitation maneuver and lose the fear of the defibrillator, which in the end is a semi-automatic that is going to indicate exactly what one has to do at every moment. Very important is the involvement of the Red Cross, because it has many volunteers and many trained volunteers. The idea, logically, is to expand the number of people who with certification of this type of training can give their data, we can incorporate it into the database and be alerted according to what circumstances in the corresponding area. So with all this, we believe that we can close the circle, but we will also go further, we will start in the next few weeks in another great city of Galicia the next phase, so that we can finally have the entire area of Galicia, all citizens of Galicia covered with this project, which, as I say, is a vanguard and innovative and will place Galicia on a high level, in order to significantly reduce what deaths are right now outside of health support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u228	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Carlos Enrique López Crespo and three other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the assessment of the Galician Union regarding the possible incidence of Brexit in the Welsh fisheries sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u229	Question by Mr López Crespo of the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u230	Yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Counselor, good morning and welcome. As it is the first time I ask you questions, you will allow me, firstly, to congratulate you on your third walk in front of that important department of the Galician Union. I want to tell you that it's my first walk here, and in just three months I've been giving me time to look at something, and the main thing is to observe an environment of deep, intense and wonderful disinhibition and freedom in the people who here in this Chamber want to criticize, enumerate and even sometimes expand the problem and defects of the members of the Government. It will allow me, that I have known you for a long time, that using that environment of disinhibition and freedom, tell you that I feel for you a deep and reasonable admiration of your trajectory in front of this council. I'm telling you as a neighbour of a agro-maritime council, and as twenty-one years of mayor of that agro-maritime council, I know their virtualities. [[Applause]] And within these many virtualities that you have — which is not the moment — there is one that impresses me and surprises me, which is your permanent contact with the sector; the permanent contact when they praise it and criticize it, when they speak well of what you do and when they tell you wrong. And I, as a fishing spokesman, want to tell you that my availability is to follow that part of it: contact with the sector. Product of this contact and being in an environment of sailors in that beautiful creek of Walls and Girl, I'm going to ask you the question they propose to me; better said: I arrest her but basing myself on the concern they have. As it is known, on 23 July 2016, the citizens of the United Kingdom decided in referendum to vote for the European Union, where they had stayed since 1973 last century. This consultation has had shocking consequences, among them, the resignation of President Cameron and the arrival of a person later, who, as he himself said, is needed new people to take forward this which we have just approved in the referendum. And so came President Theresa May, who is going to try to take forward that exclusion from the European Economic Community. In view of this situation, in March next year, the mechanism provided for in Article 50 of the Treaty of Lisbon will be activated, so that for the next two years England will have to leave the European Union; which is the first time except the isolated Greenland case in 1985. This is an unprecedented fact in Europe, and it is not yet clear what its possible consequences for the United Kingdom itself...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u231	Please put the question to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u232	Thank you, President; I put the question. [[Laughter]] As you understand what this is going on, they were worried, they fish there, they go to the Malvinas, England is terrible, and we are not exactly objective of the affective defeats of the English and therefore ask me: What valuation does the Galician Board make of the impact Brexit may have on the Welsh fishing sector? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u233	Thank you. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u234	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. López Crespo, I thank you for your words, and you know that my way of understanding politics is simply a service to others. And to make that service the best formula I've ever found is to talk to the sector you have to help solve their problems. It is logical that in that dialogue we can sometimes reach agreement and others do not, but of course, I believe that Galicia and this Government have always attached to fishing the importance it has, both from the social and economic point of view, to our community. And on that line is what we're doing, and in this particular case you're asking me, we've done it that way too. I don't think it would be responsible to ignore such an important fact as you describe: the first time a country decides to leave the EU-28. That's a decision that can affect both directly and indirectly our fishing sector. Directly, because there are more than one hundred and thirty Greek ships that are fishing in those waters and that can see their working conditions diminished. But also indirectly because of all the commercial relations that the entire community, fishing and non-fishing, has with that country. So, from the minute in which we had knowledge of the British people's decision, what we did was get us to work. And the best thing we could do was to send a report on the consequences of the withdrawal from the United Kingdom of the European Union to the Salvador Institute of Madariaga Studies at the University of Coruña. And that report makes it clear that it is not possible at the moment to establish the consequences that may result from this decision, since negotiations on what that withdrawal is going to be like have not yet begun. But what if we were to mark the playing board of all the factors that will be influenced by this decision, so that when we have to take part in the working committees that negotiate how that exit should be, Spain and Galicia are prepared, have arguments and get the best possible benefits for our fleet. I think we were the first Autonomous Community to make this decision. This study is being very much appreciated by the entire Greek fishing sector, which already has it at their disposal through the Galician Fisheries Council, but we have also made it to the Central Government. We want that, if the United Kingdom finally decides to leave the European Union, the Government of Spain is sufficiently prepared, with technical arguments and legal arguments allowing not to happen what happened when we entered the European Union and the fishing sector was used with currency. In this case, I think we have arguments, we must continue to deepen these arguments and continue to provide this information to the Government of Spain, which is what you will finally have to participate in these working groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u235	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. López Crespo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u236	Thank you, Counselor. We believe that we are laying the foundations of that good strategy to confront Brexit. What the sector is transmitting to us is the positivity of this study and the good initiative taken. We know that we are working as they are doing in the United Kingdom too, we know of the views of their sector through our sectoral representatives, we know of the views of their representatives in the British Parliament, we know of their interests and concerns, and we see that it is similar to what our sector and our administration thinks. We believe that we must continue to work in this direction and therefore reform one last question: What have they planned to do to continue this work already done in this process that is expected to be long and even complicated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u237	Thank you, Mr. López Crespo. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u238	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. López Crespo, what I've been saying to you, we're going to keep working. As I told you, the first report has already been submitted to the Galego Fisheries Council throughout the sector. The sector is taking the basis for analysis, we have already had some meetings and they want to form a working group in which we can also provide all the data that the sector itself has from the meetings that are being held between them, so that we continue to deepen in this report. And for that we already have collaborative agreements, both with the Salvador de Madariaga Institute and the Applied Economics Department of the University, to be able to make an assessment of the socio-economic impacts that these decisions will have; we will also use the Cetmar Socio-economics department, which depends on the Council of the Sea; and we will also work with the institute that has just been launched in the Port Authority of Vigo. In short, what we need is to keep working together: the sector with the data and the analyses it does, but also with all the researchers who can give us light on the different impacts that are taking place. And on that line we're already working continuously. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u239	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Dr. Julio Torrado Quintela and Da María Dolores Toja Suárez, from G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the evaluation of the Galician Union in relation to the regulation of the activity of extraction of the perception
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u240	Question by Mr. Julio Torrado Quintela, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u241	Thank you, Mr. President. For the sake of the cordiality that you yourself announced at the beginning of this legislation, I was about to ask for support for the advisor for the harsh criticisms now received. [[Applause]] In any case, after the bathing and massage session, which is fine, we're going to play the game a little bit. There's a question we wanted to move, which is related to the extraction of the perception. We all know, or in the sector they know, that the sector of perception has two methods of extraction: fleet and foot, and as the Order of December 30th 2015 of specific resources quotes that in cases of bad weather ships can stay in port and access can be produced on foot. However, certain insecurity exists in the sector, caused by some impediments to work, some warnings, even some threats of sanctions and some sanctions that are trying to make effective, without there being any legal basis for that, because none of these sanctions are appealing to any specific legal basis, are not binding on any articulate or normative, but are vague and imprecise. This indefinition and discretion that is being applied in some places and in some cases, and not at all, is precisely causing this insecurity to have a difficulty in the sector. A very clear example is what happens in Baiona, and I take advantage to greet the fellows of the Baiona Congress, who are here some of them present. We wonder what's going on in this place, in Baiona, in the confrerery, because there's a huge conflict, fruit that the management of the confrerery is in clear minority. There's a majority of the fellows who signed in favour of censorship, despite constantly offering dialogue to reach agreements, and they wonder why these cases of warnings and threats and sanctions are being given. And even if you get to treat them almost as if they were stolen, when they are, of course, people with all the permits in order. There are even complaints for impediments to do their own work. The consequences? For the consequences of this situation are the impossibility of working, without having any legal basis to tell them why they are being prevented from working, and the drop in prices for the absence of buyers, because there is very little capture of perception and because ultimately the conflict, the length and the buyers as normal lead to it. So we have a confrerery in which there is a majority of its members, the fellows, who can't go out to work, they don't know why, and yet there's a confrerery that systematically dedicates itself to dividing the sector, causing problems, bringing the Civil Guard to turn to, constantly warning that there are warnings, even threatening to pursue and hinder work afterwards. So our question about this situation is: What evaluation does the Galician Board of Directors make that it's being prevented from carrying out the extraction activity to some fellows and some fellows over the past few weeks without laying any regulatory basis for that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u242	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Answer from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u243	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Torado, the first thing I want to make clear is that the Councillory of the Sea does not value that supposed impediment to faenenar, because it is not true that it prevents anyone from harming him by fulfilling the rule, neither in Baiona nor anywhere else. The Council will always evaluate only compliance with legislation, since that is the mandate we acquire when we swear our office. We believe that you know — since you explicitly quote it in your initiative — the rules that apply in this case, and I believe that the provisions that are clearly set out regarding the extraction of the sense are contained in that regulation. I say this because I believe that concern over the interpretation of the rule should be solved by reading the rule itself, which points out that when, in the same management plan, we include work areas on foot and from the ship that are not separate for both groups, crew members can only access the resource by land when the weather makes it difficult to use the ship. Besides, on this assumption, all crew members of a ship will have access to the resource in the same way. Therefore, Article 64.3 of the Order of 30 December 2015 regulates the exploitation of specific resources, clearly indicates the formula for access to the resource. We believe, therefore, that in this sense it would be clear the meaning of the agreements that should be made between the collectives aware of their areas of work on what situations of bad weather may access in certain areas, where there is no conflict. In this sense, there is already a legal report of 1 July 2005 on the possibility of access to the swimming of nearby stones, in which it is concluded that access to the realization can only be made through the modalities provided for in the standard: walking from the rocks, to the fellows on foot, and from the ship to the perceivers to the fleet. So that anxiety has an easy formula of clarification, and we believe, after the more than 55 meetings held with the Welsh confrries in these months, which is not manifested anywhere else, nor even at those points where there are plans for extraction of sight on foot and fleet. Since then, we do not value that supposed impediment to faenenar, and we only value the will of the coastguards to enforce the law, as is their task, let us see when there is a plan of extraction approved according to legality and if we are considering the development of an activity of which there are many examples in Galicia. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u244	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mr. Torrado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u245	In fact, I think it's important to go to the law, and I'm going to quote the order itself, which in the case of the extraction of the perception says, "if the situation is complicated, in case of bad weather, by the difficulty of using the ship, the access of crew persons to the work areas may be on the ground, remaining the ship in the port, in the case of bad weather." The Maritime Navigation Act, expressly, states: "The captain's professional freedom to make autonomous decisions in matters of safety and protection of the environment is guaranteed." In the matter of security, the captain decides, in this case, as the captain says. Therefore, if the extraction plan is joint – which it is – when there is problems accessing the fleet, they can enter on foot whenever the ship remains on the ground. The law is quite clear, the rules are quite clear. It is so clear that no one — when he does not make any warning and no penalty that may have been issued — expressly quote. It is very curious that you can or will wish to sanction a regulation but you do not mention it. It will be either because twisting the rules on paper is more complicated than in word, or it will be, in fact, because it is not possible to use a legal basis because it does not exist. What is here is the debate — and indeed, in this we have agreed — is that the case is very special, very particular. Is it because there is some other kind of interest, in that case, in dividing that sector? Are there any interests of another type, business interests? Are there any interests of the confrerery in which only one part can extract? Will there be such interests? Because when it doesn't happen elsewhere, where it's done the same as it was done until now in Baiona and it doesn't apply that regulation, if a supposed regulation – which doesn't exist – applies only in one case, I think guilt shouldn't be in those who want to work and what they've been doing for the same regulation all the time. He'll probably be in whom he applies, who he uses, suddenly a non-existent regulation to apply it and prevent some people from working. So it is clear to me that there is no basis, and therefore I insist on my question: if there is no legal basis — which is not cited here — what is the probability, then, of what is the problem in our own perceptions? I'm the one who doesn't. So we think there's something special that makes it difficult for the fellows to understand and we ask that it be solved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u246	Thank you, Mr. Torrado. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u247	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Torrado, look, don't look at ghosts where they are. I'm not able to twist any rules, and when you tell me I'm not quoting any rules, I quote one, which regulates the 2016 plan of exploitation. But that order, which is published on December 30th, is based on a fishing law and is based on two decrees: what regulates the operating plans and what regulates the mode of access in order to have the permit of exploitation. And in that decree 425, where it regulates how you can access the resource and who can access the resource, it says that in order to access the seafood on foot there will have to meet a number of requirements, and those requirements have been changed according to the sector and there is an order that will be published. And all those people who want to get on foot have to come up with this public contest to give equal opportunities to everyone. You are the ones who, in some way, are encouraging a norm to make a difference in a society in which no differences can be established, or which I am not going to establish. I will never prioritize those who may have the opportunity to access, because they have a certain economic capital, to buy a boat, and therefore be able to go when they perceive the fleet, and then leave the boat moored at the port and be able to walk when they do not meet the requirements to be able to walk. Because my norm is that everyone has equal opportunities, and therefore to get on foot they'll have to meet the requirements of the fence on foot, access to that resource and be able to work on foot. It is quite enough that, as it has been seen that sometimes — it has just begun in the Baiona confrere — there were difficulties in getting the boats out, it was the Baiona confrere in the 1990s, which it asked us to decide, in cases of bad weather, whether we could evaluate or not, and since those we have changed, and there are today different regulatory applications, which have them, and technological applications, that allow them to define when they can be considered or not bad time. That is what they have to try to reach an agreement on the foot and the fleet sector. And look, you question me how to twist the rule when there is, next to Baiona, a confrere, the Guard's, where they have plan of exploitation on foot and the fleet and they were able to reach agreement to decide who would work and when on foot and when the fleet would work. Or on the other hand, Bueu's confrerery, where they only go to the fleet and go out every day, the question is quite different. Don't let those who don't meet the requirements to access on foot do so. They let those people who have no other chance of working to access them by meeting all the rules that this council sets and that are in line with the sector. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-12-28-DSPG010.u248	Thank you, Counselor. Solved the agenda items, aborting session. Happy year to all and all. Happy year!
