ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-08-DSPG002.u1	Good morning to all of you. The agenda is published in the Official Journal of Parliament on 4 November 2016. I ask the secretary to read the agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-08-DSPG002.u2	Thank you, President. Resolution of the Presidency of the Galician Parliament of 28 October 2016 on the proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Galician Union. The Galician Autonomy Statute, in Article 15(3), sets out the obligation of the Presidency of Parliament to initiate the corresponding consultations with the political forces represented in the House in order to formulate a proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of Galicia. In accordance with the above-mentioned precept and Article 16 of Law 1/1983, 22 February, rules governing the Union and its Presidency, and Article 136(1) of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure of Galicia, after consulting the political forces with parliamentary representation and hearing the Bureau, the Presidency shall propose to the House as a candidate for the Presidency of the Council of Galicia Mr Alberto Núñez Feijóo. Santiago de Compostela, 28 October 2016. Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira, president."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-08-DSPG002.u3	Thank you. Proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Galician Union, presentation of its government programme and election
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-08-DSPG002.u4	We therefore enter the agenda. And now I also ask the Secretary to read out the Presidency's resolution on the proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of the Union. [[Pause.]] She's taken care of by the secretary. What happens is that the first point, of course, is "Proposal for a candidate for the Presidency of Galicia, presentation of its government and election programme", which was the only point on the agenda. So now we propose the program's presentation by the candidate for the Presidency of Galicia. You have no time limit and for that you have a word for the candidate for your show. Whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-08-DSPG002.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Galego Nationalist Block, the Socialist Party of Galicia, En Marea and the People's Party of Galicia; authorities present in the gallery who honor us with their presence; Greeks and Greeks, by Galicia, because I believe in it and in its future; for Galicia, because there is no greater honor than serving it; and in Galicia, because citizens marked this way by giving me the privilege of being able to aspire to the majority confidence of this House for the third time; motivated, driven and legitimized by the Greeks and the Greeks, that is why I am here. You'll understand that, in the most intimate sphere, after three times running as a candidate to preside over Galicia and seeing the citizen's support expanded, there's a feeling of gratitude and emotion that is very difficult to describe. Let me summarize it by telling you that after all this time, after living from this position successes and flavors of my land, which I have always celebrated and suffered with, I introduce myself to this investment session as a militant from Galicia. But, beyond the staff, the first thing I wanted to express is a feeling that we can all or, at least, we must share: present in the name of all our respect for Galicia, its form of being, its way of thinking and its way of deciding. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here after getting the support of young and old, of Welsh people in rural and urban areas, of people who suffer and people who have a more prosperous life, and so do you. Galicia is not divided by age, condition or origin that can be approved by one political force or another. Outside this House there is a free Galicia which has indeed freely chosen the people we are here with and the intensity with which each of the political forces is represented. It is a fully autonomous Galicia, as it points out, without going further, that the election result of September 25th in this Parliament leaves the only absolute majority that exists in an autonomous community in Spain. To be an exception I don't think I'm going to assume, if I get the confidence of the House, no prerogative regarding my autonomic counterparts or the newly invested President of the Government of Spain. I feel myself a part of a historic moment that demands agreements more intensely than ever. In my opinion, what really represents the election result is a temper. A temper that the citizens expressed in the polls forcefully. Mostly, our people don't want to read and stability; yes Government soon and no longer delay; yes unity, in Galicia and with the rest of Spain, instead of more division; and instead of agitation, choose, yes, moderation. Galicia has decided to be serene, but consistently its own course and has come to light from the uncertainty that has stopped Spain in recent months. Our duty is to follow your command and your example, and that is why I propose to give you the answers you ask us, starting with this Parliament. Because, ladies and gentlemen, many years after the parents of Galicia made a memorable synthesis of what we are — Galicia, a people, a land, a speech — you would have to add one more element that distinguishes us, groups us and makes us stronger: Galicia, a people, a land, a speech and a Parliament. I remember these records to claim the house that welcomes us all. We inhabit the dreams of our ancestors. It should simply serve to value this institution, even more so when representative democracy suffers from attacks or scorn. There are parliaments that are closed, assaulted or surrounded by those who agree to grant themselves a representative that no one has given them, because the only place where you can get it is in the polls. That's why I hope what you're defending here is the deal or the disagreement, but never the aggression to this House. Because whoever despises a representative of the people here despises himself, but above all, he is also scorning the people. [[Applause]] Let's not go back, ladies and gentlemen, resort to behaviors that don't define a society. Ours has nothing to do with incivism and free offense. That's not what our ancestors have bound us, it's not what our peers generally practice, and that's not what they chose in the past autonomous elections. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has clearly decided stability and has clearly decided moderation. I'm not saying it to boast of the election victory of my party, and much less of me as a candidate. He has more support than ever before to the social and political model that the Greeks have been building and renewing for a long time. Because here a model of its own is kept intact, not imported, not copied or imitated. A model in which Galicia recognizes itself and claims in Spain and Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this model of country, which I defend and which I aspire to represent as President of the Union, part of Galicia's pride. That pride is permanent. We feel it when we are supported, as we are now, by most eloquent, but also when we see ourselves deprived, as we haven't been so long, of enough support to rule. The big difference with other concepts is that, in view of the adverse results, we don't wonder what people were wrong about, but what we were wrong about. We're self-critical, and we're trying to fix the mistakes that citizens point to us; the same way we know that victories do not exempt us from doing the same. In short, we do not believe that illustrated despotism is a good recipe for Galicia of the 21st century. All for the people listening to the people, adapting to the people and to the people. And, above all, respecting always, always, always his idiosyncrasy and his opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of those who still think that Galicia is an immature, ignorant or alienated society in the hands of some alien force that moves our threads as if it were a puppet, we see with admiration how our people decide for themselves and for themselves. As he decided, just over a month ago, in the midst of a national noise, to impose his particular feelings and sentiño. This people is made up of individuals, with concrete problems and specific concerns. I know that many of them are threatened with their individual freedom because of problems of all kinds. There are Welsh people who suffer from lack of employment or sufficient resources to get rid of their loved ones. There are Welsh women who suffer from the threat of male violence. There are Welsh people who suffer from illness or from the conditions of the countries they emigrated to, as is happening in Venezuela. The people who suffer most — for whatever reason — are our first concern and our main commitment. I speak in plural again, because I know that this statement has the unanimous support of this House. [[Applause]] The desirable thing is that we also try to achieve that alliance not only in the capacity to move ourselves to the pain of our compatriots, but also in the ability to give them answers. That's why I'm proposing to kick them off from the start with a fallacy that, in my view, citizens punished in the polls. The Greeks don't demand artificial paradise politics, but seemingly more modest solutions, but they know that they really change the lives of women and men. As a general rule, our people are aware that the future is not a fiction that is fabricated, but a reality that is shared and molded. Starting from this base, ladies and gentlemen, what I propose is to transfer to this Parliament the exception of Galicia's election result with a political behaviour that is also exceptional: let's work together. We work together to draw out our debate fruitful conclusions, instead of tracing verbal labyrinths that have no way out or, of course, useful to citizens. Counting on the only absolute majority of a community in Spain gives Galicia an indisputable force to face the debates that are about to open in Spain. My determination is to take advantage of it with active participation in all of them, especially with regard to the new model of self-financing, which I will then extend to myself. But I already tell them and I ask them — especially I ask them — that they add up, because the pact between us will make, besides the protagonist, the voice of the Greeks unappealable. Ladies and gentlemen, with the level of uncertainty that currently weighs on politics and on the future of many political parties that also have representation in this House, I believe that citizens have a fairly limited hope of achieving many pacts. I propose that we surprise them from Galicia, or, rather, to imitate them. Because in the same way as citizens who voted differently are able to work together every day, their representatives here should have to do something similar. As I understand it, most must be an inclusive and non-exclusive tool; that is, of course, my disposition. It is to be hoped that minority representatives will share this principle. For my part, I give them the complete conviction that most don't grant me any gift of infallibility. I doubt, mistake, and sometimes I think I'm right. Therefore, I would like the minorities not to feel mortgaged by any oath of systematic opposition making the parliamentary debate a sterile exercise. The support obtained in Galicia by the group I represent is, of course, exceptional. It's a unique result in Spain. But my will is that this absolute majority will be an open majority; a majority open to all the Greeks, regardless of what they voted for, because they can be sure that there will be an autonomous government that will work for everyone. And a majority also open to you in this Parliament, regardless of what the Party belongs to, because you will always have my hand to join in the solutions to the great political and social consensus that took place in the polls on September 25. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the new time that opens at the same time as this tenth legislation, now that we are beginning to overcome the crisis and consolidate the recovery — I insist that we begin — brings structural challenges that require generational responses from us and not just partisan responses. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first legislation in which I had the responsibility of the Presidency of the Union, our country was asking to straighten out the past after an erratic stage and to abandon it that they had been consolidating themselves during the autonomous era and that, in some cases, they had harmed us especially. I think, humbly, that we did it with a united government that followed the same route. We shielded the viability of public services and prevented Galicia from being rescued as most autonomous communities. Our task was to order an imperfect priest. The second mandate forced us to order a gift that would test the ability of self-government to overcome a global crisis. I think we've also done it, starting to dedicate resources and boost recovery, and, although not completely, we've achieved it. None of the previous two laws were simple, but, with correctness or error, there has always been a government that has fulfilled its obligations, there has always been a government that has ruled, and to all those who have formed or are part of it I want to thank you for always having responded to that duty at the easiest times and, above all, at the most complex times. [[Applause]] In this third shift there will also be a government that will perform its function, and will do so inspired by a fundamental idea: now Galicia has to conjugate its future. Galicia that we will be, the Greek economy that will be, the Greek society that will be, the role that our autonomous community will play in the state. That's what I want to talk to you about. To deal with these axes, which — I insist — I will soon develop more in detail, our land enjoys the necessary strength and stability to forget the question that other more precarious, dependent or clearly intervened communities — or even at national level — are done when they listen to the horizon. The question they ask is, what's going to happen? And the question is voiced unhesitatingly. A country like ours, endowed with a coherent majority, a cohesive society and growing economic constants, we wonder not what's going to happen, but what we're going to do. The answer I want to give to that question is apparently simple, but it has great importance in democracy. The question is, what are we going to do? The answer is: we will do what Galicia needs, do what we said we would do and do what the chickens voted for. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, if after two legislations I'm here today is because that's what we've been trying to do for the next eight years and because that's what I have to do for the next four years. I mean, we're doing our electoral program, which is the roadmap that's mostly down in the polls. I mean that we will continue to develop the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, always adapting the economic improvements that are taking place. And I mean, Galicia will have a government from the first day until the last day of the legislation. That is why, in concrete terms, the first decision of the new Government will be the adoption of the spending ceiling for next year; and then that of the budget, which will be presented in this House before this 2016 is over so that they can be discussed in this Parliament as soon as possible. In any case, we assure you that since January 1st we will already use the budgetary mechanisms that the Union has at its disposal – basically expected to spend – to be able to rule without any delay, as we said we would do. This is undoubtedly a decision with a relevant quantitative effect, because it will allow for a third consecutive year to sink in the growing trend and make almost 250 million euros more available to the priorities of the Greeks as quickly as possible. But it also has a qualitative dimension, because it allows us to say that the political context in Galicia is more favourable than anywhere to face our future. That's our commitment, because in Galicia, yes; in Galicia there is assurance that the new Government will rule for the next four years. I say that's our commitment, and I have the impression that it will also be one of the main examples that we can give to all of Spain. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the theory that our absolute majority is a sort of vestige of the country, I claim that other one that points to our land as the forepartment of what will end in the rest of the state. We are not only the last stable majority of Spain, I have the impression that we will be the first, either through the political decision to govern the common interest of party interests, or through legislation that always protects governance, in municipalities, in self-government or in the state itself, in the face of ungovernment, or through future elections. I am convinced that the national assembly will return to stability which, fortunately, Galicia maintains intact by the will of most Greeks. In Galicia, yes, our self-government is safe from outrages because the citizens clearly delimited the role and responsibility of each of us. Over the past few weeks, I've been repeatedly asked why. Why Galicia persists in its stability, when that is not happening generally in the rest of the state. Well, I find two explanations: one, inspired by circumstances other than Galicia, and one, derived from our own evolution as a country. At the external level, there are examples that show that the frivolity of the leaders, the escapism in the face of the difficulties and the demagogy that sleeps society has severe consequences. That isolationism of what we have fled is being fatal to leaders who seek to disconnect their states or communities from Europe or Spain. They propose a promised land that doesn't exist but they go through a desert that does exist. They subject the people to their veheties and sacrifice the present and the future of their people to illusions that bring with them a harsh hangover. Similarly, the grotesque situation that we have lived in Spain for the last ten months and the effects of prolonged paralysis during that time — especially as I will also become more detailed in this intervention — was sufficiently revealing so that Galicia decided to act accordingly and maintain its own path. But also within our land there is evidence that politics is not to promise impossible, but to work for the common good as much as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, within Galicia we are already testing and suffering the effects of treating politics as if it were a frivolous game. Politics always has consequences in people's lives, and anti-politics, politics consistent in avoiding controversial decisions, which is equally on the agenda in many municipalities, also carrying out sequels. Against all this, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have ruled a Galician that went through a deep recession and an economic crisis, but to which it faced without entering another crisis, in the institutional crisis. Unlike other territories, the difficulties did not alter institutional balances nor caused irreparable breaks in society nor did they make the community see themselves immersed in Byzantine identity debates. There was discomfort, there were protests, there were demands, which are only symptoms of a living and active nationality, but there were no ruptures. I understand that this answer, which belongs to a mature country, was the result of telling the truth and facing reality. We're telling the truth at all times because our people don't form a childish people or can be content with dialectical greed. We follow this beautiful idea of Castile, according to which, "so that the people have faith in us, first have faith in the people." With that faith in our renewed people, my commitment will continue to tell you the truth and face reality. To tell the truth means to claim that there are still problems to be solved, but that we are in better conditions to deal with them because there are more Greeks who have abandoned unemployment; there are more Greeks by praising Social Security; there is more industrial production in Galicia; there is more confidence; there is more consumption and tax collection; there is more hope. This most favorable data enables us to face the present and future reality with a greater strength and also with a greater perspective. With greater strength because the best economic situation translates into three direct consequences of great importance to the action of the Union, but also to the daily life of citizens. The first, more budgets; the second, more debt; and the third, less taxes. More budgets. This can be the first legislation since 2008 in which public accounts are expanding every year, and therefore with more social and economic investments. Less debt. Every time our commitment is to progressively reduce the debt/IPP ratio so that Galicia continues to be among the less indebted autonomous communities in Spain. And less taxes. Because, the same way we have done so far, and for more reason if there are more strikes, we will continue to reduce tax pressure on the Greeks. We respond to the less taxed Greeks in the crisis, and the different selective reductions are proof of that. We have responded to the less taxed Greeks when the recovery began, and since this year the biggest tax drop in Galician history has been in force, including the abolition of succession tax for the practice of all the Greeks. And since Galicia's course has not changed, and as the situation continues to improve, we will respond again to the less taxed Greeks in this legislation as well. [[Applause]] The best economic situation translates into more resources, but also, as I told you, in a more favourable climate to meet, in addition to the short and medium term. Because if in the first and second legislates the fundamental thing is to respond to emergencies, now — without stopping doing so — we can derive much from the efforts and tasks that call us for the next decades, but that we must start to take care of now. The 21st century is our home today and in the future, and our obligation is to build it with new codes and not with codes from the past. To that end, the initiative of the Greeks must be safeguarded by a framework of assurances and incentives that political action must provide and that they articulate around three priority objectives: to guide recovery towards a viable and sustainable economy in the future that incorporates the primary sector more strongly; to continue to improve public services by consolidating Galicia as the most attractive place to be born and to live; and to participate actively in the open territorial debate in the state, projecting abroad the German model of autonomy, especially around the model of autonomous financing. Let me transfer some of the priority lines to each of them. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we cannot finish the task, recovery is a starting point. This confirms the current rate of growth, which is the largest of the last eight years, placing us above 3%. This is also learned from future forecasts, which indicate that Galicia will close the year 2016, growing, as I say, above 3% and that, according to many study services, by 2017 it can achieve another growth of 2.5%; but we prefer to be prudent by placing ourselves at 2.3%. It is also clear from the evolution of employment and the fall in unemployment, recorded by more than 10% last year. It is clear that intensity can be conditioned by changes such as Brexit and the future of the Eurozone, or by political contexts such as those that take place today in the world's first economy in the United States of America. Obviously the recovery is not complete, because it has not yet reached many Greeks. Following close to the families who remain immersed in the tragedy of unemployment, or who, having work, still lack sufficient resources for a decent life, is, as I said, our first commitment. To accomplish this we already have more instruments in place than at any other time, and with greater support, since we are developing them from the hands of social institutions and municipalities. And I want to guarantee from this rostrum the continuity of each and every one of these as long as it takes. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is one of the communities with the greatest social commitment, and this statement will keep it throughout the legislation with facts. I am talking, for example, about the income of Galician social integration, the electric ticket, the programme to avoid cuts of light, the supplementation of non-contributory pensions, the measures in force against child poverty. Attention to those who need it most is a priority commitment, but by itself a limited commitment. Target has to be that they don't need us and that we can gradually reduce these urgent care games so that there's less and less urgency. The path to that is also drawn, it's employment; a higher job -- as it is already happening -- but also of sufficient quality, objective that we haven't reached completely yet. Both objectives will be the axis of one of the main laws that we will subject to consideration by this House in this legislation, a new Galician Employment Act that provides our land with a more favourable regulatory context, more favourable to obtain three objectives: [[Applause]] The first is to continue to reduce unemployment with the aim of creating between 80,000 and 100,000 new jobs in this legislation and the unemployment rate being below two digits. The second is to prioritize especially affected groups more intensively, such as young people, women and long-term unemployed. And thirdly, to increase actions aimed at reducing working timeliness and precariousness, increasing the level of undefined contracts, even if today there are two out of three. Let me at this point fix a key figure in our work tissue, both in the former times of crisis and in this time of growth; I'm talking about autonomy. Their impact on the economy is indisputable. They're the ones who pull the most out of it with work and daily effort, but they also have a great social impact because they cover a spectrum of activities so wide that in the dust they shape our towns and our societies. You all know that in past legislation we strengthen aid for this collective, in some cases with unpublished decisions in the state, such as incentives for hiring up to three workers. But in this legislation I propose to approve a strategy, a broader strategy that converts Galicia into the most favourable place to be autonomous; more favourable for an autonomous born, expanding for a year the flat rate for the self-employed who require this additional time to be consolidated; a more favourable place also for an autonomous to grow, for example, by creating an autonomous bonus of up to 2,000 euros or by strengthening their formation; more favourable for them to have children, by extending the bonus to 16 additional weeks to reconcile and open it also to the parents; and more favourable for an autonomous to ensure the continuity of their business by opening to all autonomous the Generation Return Programme, which already exists in trade. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of a viable and sustainable economy for the future, which improves the level of employment stability, we cannot rely solely on the will of a government or on the legislative capacity of a parliament; the key remains in the ability to consolidate among all — including social agents — a new production model, with the keys to the future, and I believe that we must strongly support knowledge and innovation. I highlight this double sink because I believe there are others who are also fundamental, where we have already been able to move forward with outstanding results, even if we have to continue to sink in them. I refer, for example, to the fact that today in Galicia it is much easier to undertake – and cheaper – to the network of business accelerators, to tax incentives, to the Doing Business office and to the elimination of the previous license to open a business. They are the clearest exponents of this statement. However, entrepreneurs are still alerting that they are not sufficient, and that is why we are now going to promote an audit that even more clearly detects the possibility of agitating all economic activity processes in the autonomous community. Similarly, any entrepreneur who needs funding knows that he already has help lines, which only last year has allowed almost four projects to be supported daily. On that line we will continue to sink too. In the same way, we have already added excellent results to the issue of the internationalization of our economy. In recent years exports have reached historical figures, and in that trend, if it is maintained, a historical figure will also be reached in 2016. In addition, we have been able to attract to our land investments of great importance in automotive, aeronautical, milk, naval... there are examples in all of them who are evaluating the way to continue opening our world. We will do so with new programmes to support internationalisation and through the direct involvement of the Government, maintaining the economic agenda as a priority within the external action of the Government and trying to explore new destinations, such as the eastern market. But precisely because we compete in the world, we have to be able to develop, as he told them, with more knowledge and with more innovation, so that we can position ourselves with greater advantage in the globalised market. It's a path that we also have opened, where we didn't even start from zero. More than thirty multinationals were installed in Galicia to develop R+D+i projects in the past legislation. The first autonomous vehicle that travelled the Spanish roads came out of here. In Rozas - Lugo - you're developing a pole of drones, so other communities have been fighting for time. Galicia has shown what it wants and can be an example of innovation, but it has to step on the accelerator to move faster on this path. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Autonomic Government has resources and possibilities to increase them if there are viable projects in the wake of the European Union-signed Strategy of Smart Specialization. And our commitment is to guide that investment to crystallize in two consequences: First, empower Galicia as the headquarters of R & D+i, for example, by creating innovation consortia that adds to the efforts of researchers, technological centres, large companies and pemes. In this line, in addition to the aeronautics – which we already have – the first thing we want to push is biotechnology, or, secondly, opening new calls for joint innovation units that attract Galicia's largest innovators from the strategic sectors. The second objective is that innovation incorporates itself as a systematic activity into companies — in our opinion, the greenest point at the moment in our economy. So, for example, we will strengthen the resources to make Industry 4.0 come true, that is, for entrepreneurs to incorporate smart manufacturing processes that improve the competitiveness of their businesses. Even so, just as we drive an acceleration of innovative companies in the automotive industry, we propose to extend this experience to other sectors, starting with agri-food. Or we'll also define a plan of suppliers to large companies that detects their recruitment needs and directs our commitment innovation to business opportunities. We need to be aware that promoting these changes is not easy, it involves changing patterns of behavior that are deeply rooted and building new capacities. It's complex, it involves a lot of people. Since it's logical, it's not possible without knowledge; that's to say, it's not possible without talent. Incorporating it, incorporating it into talent immediately, is already a priority action by the Board, and my determination is to take advantage of the economic improvement to strengthen the strategy of talent capture that we have in place, firstly, not only by flexing the criteria for access to aid so that they get to the most prestigious scientists, but also by increasing the resources of the Igncia program, which allows us to verify and market the projects of our researchers. This chapter is fundamental. The work of the thousands of scientists who develop with some help from Joina at universities is fundamental, as are the hundreds of people who currently work in technology centers, so we support them with more resources. But speaking of talent cannot be reduced solely to the present, we must also continue to prepare the young people today so that they can be the talent tomorrow and compete with it, and on that ground plays a fundamental role in the education they receive in the public system. The basic lines are already known to you, but I want to sink into some of the most important ones. The first, the most immediate work, is to complete the adaptation of the Map of university qualifications and the Map of vocational training, insisting on dual vocational training. Both — the two branches — have a fundamental impact on the economic environment we want to draw and also on employability in the future. This task is now started. And allow me to thank from this forum for the effort and constructive spirit that the three Greek universities have shown, as well as the commitment of teachers in general and those of vocational training in particular. In the next few years, we have to finish this process so that the education system really acts as a lifesaver of the economy we want. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, titles with futures and, within them, teachings that also serve for that future. The world is increasingly digital and technological, I demand that we devote more resources to increasing these capacities in our boys, and we will do it. This legislation has to be the reality of a really digital teaching in our public education, and for that we will draw three lines of action: increasing the structure of the Abalar plan, which now reaches 52,000 students; constantly updating the technological devices employed by the student, including the online platform for learning, and, together with these measures of greater access to computer and digital equipment, also incorporating the teachings of robotics and programming, two subjects that are called to have an essential role in the knowledge of the future. In that future of what we're talking about, there'll also be more Greek people who can communicate in other languages, because they've learned them in a school or in a public school. Because today in Galicia more and more children have a trilingual education, in which, in addition to learning English and Spanish on an equal basis, they learn a third language. And our commitment is that, in addition to the 90,000 that are already in a multilingual classroom today, in the next few years we are able to, firstly, extend this measure to children's education cycles from 3 to 6 years old; secondly, to ensure that in each of the seven major cities there is at least one public centre of excellence in multilingual bachelor's degree; thirdly, to open this option also to vocational training; fourthly, to expand the internship programs for foreign language learning, especially English and Portuguese; fifthly, to extend the free tuition so that students of language schools have free tuition from certain academic levels; and to encourage the three universities of Galicia to implement international degrees, by putting in this 2017 a pilot plan for each of them to choose two titles that offer a full itinerary in a third language. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we made a big bet that learning a third language was not a privilege but an opportunity within the reach of ever more children and children, because for us language is an instrument that opens doors. That's why we decided to take advantage of the Greek to close ties with the lusophone world, or we decided to put more and more resources in place to ensure that new generations dominate English. And that bet that's being consolidated in public education, we're not going to put it at risk but to complete it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, what we are talking about is to adapt ourselves, adapt ourselves to a changing context, adapt us to a future that brings us in an unappetizing way. In that future, strategic sectors of our economy are already being accommodated, like the naval, which thanks to their technological capabilities was able to move from a situation without new demands to charge more than EUR 2.3 billion on public and private shipyards, despite the oil crisis. Or like the automotive industry, which thanks to the new models has guaranteed activity for the next decade and EUR 3,000 million of investment for the auxiliary industry. [[Applause]] There are also sectors that are more strongly incorporating our production system, such as the aeronautical system, where, thanks to an investment of EUR 150 million, we lay the groundwork for becoming a global reference to a sector with a great future, such as unmanned aircraft, or tourism. Tourism is not new but it is having a renewed and reinforced weight in the gross domestic product thanks to the good numbers of visitors, which, in addition, this year are going to be historic. I would like at this point to underline our desire to continue to make tourism an indisputable bulwark to consolidate recovery, especially knowing that this legislation will be key to preparing the next Xacobeo 2021. A quote of these characteristics should not be improvised or left for the last hour, and that's why I assure you that the goal of doing the best Jacobin in history in 2021 will be to start working from the first minute. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, in that future that is already guiding strategic sectors of our economy today and tomorrow, in that future that we are trying to guide our boys, it must also be the Galician set and, therefore, rural Galicia, that is to say, primary-sector Galicia. About her I would like to propose to you an equally stable pact, which guarantees our unity of effort these years. In the same way that the past legislation was that of the naval or the automobile, this must be the primary sector legislation. We don't even want to forget that part of us. It's our starting point as a people, and that's why renewing rural is not only an economic opportunity, but it's also a social and cultural obligation that we have as a people so that our development is not an uprooted development. I would like to make it clear that I do not focus on this issue as a priority because it shares the defeatist vision that many people have about this issue. Living in the countryside, working at sea, I'm not a conviction or the final resort of those who have no other. And our villages and our smaller villages are not a simple weekend destination, a withdrawal of disconnection. They're still home to thousands of families who have their dreams for the future. They've been modernized in recent decades in a very intense way, on occasions with sacrifices that we'll never highlight enough. And more recently, there are also new projects underway that open new doors to this field. Of course, there are shortcomings, deficiencies that still persist, and very important challenges that remain pending. And addressing them is the commitment I also want to acquire from here and for what I ask for your support. There's a future. It's important that citizens, especially young people, have that perception. There are symptoms that the primary sector is increasingly synonymous with the future and less and less with delay. Some symptoms: this year is where most young people have applied for aid in the incorporation of agriculture, twice as much as in the last decade; training and agroforestry experimentation centres have been left vacant; the yellow wines are increasingly exposed, with greater quality and more countries; the production of tender Galicia has risen more than 20 points since the year 2009, and at that time the value of eco-production has doubled; we have produced more than half of the national wood and we continue to be export leaders; in the Marqueo, 2015 was the first year of the historic series in which the number of permits has been raised, so boosting the agri-food industry and the quality stamps that they support must continue to be the focus of our policies. But its future is further reinforced by decisions of greater scope which I would also like to stress, especially in three sectors relevant to the primary field: milk, forestry and fisheries, which are logically called to have a priority role in the next legislation. In the case of milk, Galicia has been able to preserve, despite the crisis, its national leadership in quantity, because today we have produced more milk than ever, nearly 16% more than in the last five years. And most importantly, not only in quantity but in quality. On the other hand, the sector is seen, and is still seen, limited in the field of processing and marketing, with effects on the incomes of the owners, who have neither been to us nor been alien to us, as far as a very slight upward is being perceived. For a long time in this House we all agreed that the only way out was to strengthen our dairy sector with more union of producers, with more industry. Well, I would like to say that in the last year, three major projects have seen light in Galicia, opening for the first time a well-founded expectation for a sector that has been anchored too long and without renewed impulses. On the one hand, the first, the decision to install in Curtis a milk processing plant capable of attracting nearly 1 out of every 4 liters produced in Galicia. The second, the expansion of the cheese processing plant in Vilalba with the expectation of increasing its production, which today consumes about 4% of the total milk we produced in Galicia. And finally, the recent merger of three cooperatives that are supposed to group up to 3,600 farmers that produce 15% of the total Greek milk. In short, three initiatives that together with others, something smaller but also significant, will absorb about 50% of Galician dairy production and which will be translated for the gainers who depend on more stability and professionalism, I hope that in better prices and in a more hopeful future. [[Applause]] The promotion of the true protagonists of each productive sector, that is, of the producers, is also the main axis of the future that we propose for the forest sector. In this way, we're going to develop measures that will include the recognition of the figure of the active forestry to, in this way, differentiate and recognize those owners who actually manage their forest properties. In this area, too, we consider the restructuring of property as a priority, so in addition to the transversal actions of partial concentration, we will promote the drafting of forest resource management plans, which will establish district-level orientations and define forest land in detail. Thirdly, they will be given a strong boost to the disincentives of neighboring mountains in common hand and to the establishment of alliances between them. Equally, fourthly, we need to act in different promotion and support measures for the forest industry, such as certification of forest management, the genetic improvement program, the creation of a specific table for the production of chestnuts or the use of pasture as a forest resource. Ladies and gentlemen, I was also speaking in this section of the fisheries sector, at a time when there are signs of recovery. Not in vain when it comes to year has reached a historical billing figure for sale of fresh fish and seafood, best of the last twenty years. Consolidating this improvement is a goal of the Sea Council over the next four years, aware that this sector depends on us but also on contexts other than on aspects such as the elimination of discards or the modification of technical measures or the control regime. All of this has a lot to do with the future of our fishing and we're working with the sector to achieve the best possible final situation. Because the key remains co-governance, which is not a new term but a maximum that we have been following for a long time in our dealings with fishermen, sailors and seafarers. With them and with the commitment to draw up at the Galego Fisheries Council a biannual report which puts together concerns, we propose various measures between which I would briefly highlight: greater weight of bass fishing with the objective of having preferential access to 158 million of the European Maritime Fund of Fisheries; secondly, more field of work for the seafood, giving continuity to the work of recovery of unproductive areas, which has already allowed us to recover in the past legislation 8 million square metres of sands and which has to recover and improve in this legislation another 10 million square meters of the sands; thirdly, modernisation of the boats, making the provision, as required, 30 million in the next three years so that the work can be renewed and expanded; fourthly, more resources for marketing and transformation; and, by fifthly, better use of the ports, making the most of their distribution platforms, as well as the tools of the fishing industry, making the most useful use of the fishing industry, providing the resources against the last time frame, making the best available; and the best available resources for the best disposal of the ports, the most useful use of the water supply of the power. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, the necessary economic effort we are going to make in the primary sector to ensure that growing interest is confirmed and expanded must not make us forget that, in order to complete the renewal of rural development, we must also act in social conditions and in living conditions. I said during the past election campaign that we have a debt to rural people that is not yet paid off in any case. We are moving forward with support for rural development and diversification of activities, but we need to strengthen this strategy by harnessing the resources that the 2020 RDP (the Rural Development Plan) has to offer more than 1,186 million euros. We move forward, we move forward to make it more attractive because the Land Law protects rural areas, but it also guarantees more possibilities for development, especially in the field of agriculture and tourism. But we must continue and therefore one of the priority projects in next year's budgets will be a rural entrepreneurship and training programme. We move forward, ladies and gentlemen, we move forward to better organize it because resources are reinforced to partial concentrations, but we need to do so even more intensively. [[Applause]] The objective is that, both through traditional mergers and with groups and exchanges that emerge from the private initiative, we can order the property of more than 130,000 Greek families in this decade and, most importantly, that we can order the property in 36% of the Greek municipalities that have agricultural, livestock or wine-growing activity. We move forward, ladies and gentlemen, ensuring services as basic as water and sanitation, and today more than half of the Greeks have a new clearance and supply service next to them. [[Applause]] But our will is to continue to complete the pending performances and, above all, to guarantee the same cost and quality of the services where they lend themselves. We move forward, we move forward and we will continue to move forward more intensively and with more ambitious measures. Not in vain, one of our main decisions in recent years has been thought of for the future of rural: zero taxes for the purchase of plots in all the municipalities of the rural of Galicia. Well, in addition to the maintenance of this bet, which will continue throughout the legislation with zero taxes to acquire any type of rustic property, one of our main measures in the future will continue to be rural, and thus, as we undertake, since January 1, 2017 there will be zero taxes for young people, for large families and people with disabilities who acquire a habitual housing in a municipality of less than 20,000 inhabitants. Ladies and gentlemen, the goal is for the Greeks to know that in order to live in rural areas they will have zero pressure on their government and that in order to live in rural areas they will count on 100 percent of our commitment. [[Applause]] Renewing the primary sector bet is beyond the simple economic objective. Behind it lies a deeper challenge that keeps in line with the second axis of government that was ahead of them: making Galicia what it will be, and making it a better place to be born and to live. That implies all Galicia, and therefore it implies that we can fully harmonize the realities that coexist in our land, urban and rural Galicia, on the inside and on the coast. And among them there must also be more stable and stronger bridges. That objective goes, of course, through connections, in the strictest sense of the word; of course, through connections that are not seen and that are the most important, technological ones, in which Galicia today has very remarkable possibilities of access but which we want to continue to improve to increase and guarantee its speeds, but also through physical connections, that is, roads and public transport. Thus, we will complete the network of high-provision pathways so that practically all of the Greeks will have a special infrastructure next to us, with measures such as ending the highway of Morrazo, ending the connection of the track with the motorway of the Atlantic, the link of the polygon of San Cibrao das Viñas, in Ourense, with the highway, the link of Area, under Mine, with the highway Tui-A Guard, the extension of the highway of the Costa da Morte, the start of the conversion by highway of the road between Lugo and Sarria, advance on the route of high-provisions of the north coast, especially on the variant of Viveiro, and continue the highway between Santiago and The Road. [[Applause]] And above all, we will seek to respond to one of the main pending issues in this area, which is the management of public transport and the need to provide a coverage tailored to the needs of the Greeks. I think we've managed to lay the bases with three important features. The first, the start-up of the Metropolitan Transport Plan for 60 percent of the population of Greece, which we hope can also extend to Ourense and, on the basis of the proposal made by the municipality, also to Pontevedra. Secondly, the impulse of the intermodal stations of Vigo, Ourense, Santiago and La Coruña, which we must complete with the actual involvement of the municipalities so that they function as real hubs of transport. And more recently, by making public transport for the first time free for all Greeks and Greeks under the age of 19. But none of this is enough if we don't get the most important, which is to ensure that public transport reaches where there's a user who needs it. That's why I confirm to you that in this legislation we will approve a new public transport plan that goes beyond the current one, designed for the past century, and design one for this century, with services from the 21st century, such as mobile payment, for example, or routes from the 21st century, including demand transport or the option that public transport will leave the municipal limits. Ladies and gentlemen, each of these decisions I just mentioned have an immediate impact on joining our people and ensuring equal opportunities for them. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for this purpose — and more now that we are beginning a period of expansion — to reinforce other strategic lines that strengthen our people socially and economically but also in values. [[Applause]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, if you ask me what Galicia wants in 2020, I have a clear answer. I don't pursue a perfect Galician, because no responsible politician can promise to wipe out the map all the problems, especially those that don't even depend on the Government exclusively. But if I aspire to contribute to a Galicia that creates more in its possibilities and, above all, to a Galicia that wants more of itself both in our days and in the coming decades. [[Applause]] For that, first of all, the growth we are consolidating must be orderly and sustainable. Unfortunately, in recent years we had to be more focused on not decreasing than thinking about the kind of growth we wanted to have. But now, in addition to working to strengthen the expansion, we must face the challenge of the future model of growth being solid and respectful of our surroundings and not falling back into past eaves. With this objective, precisely, we have created the specific councillorship, that of the Environment and Planning of the Territory, dedicated exclusively to this task. Galicia will not move forward in any way, it will move forward respecting our landscapes, our water and our air, the best legacy we can leave to our children and our grandchildren. We're walking towards a totally sanitized Galician water. At the end of the legislation all the water infrastructures provided for in the Galician Water Plan will be running or running with guaranteed operation, so that the 2020 Greek rivers are fully sanitized and much more protected from the greenery. And we will also create a river observatory that will enable us to value this source of natural wealth. We're going to walk towards Galicia with less CO2 emissions, and that's why we're going to approve the Welsh Environmental Sustainability Strategy and the Welsh Climate Change Strategy. We walk to a Galicia that optimizes the use of its energy sources. We have enormous energy potential and that is why we will approve Galicia's energy guidelines in order to increase the installed power of renewable sources by more than a third, such as hydraulics, wind, biomass and geothermals. Our ambition is that Galicia's energy needs in the future can be fully filled with renewable energy. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we walk to a Galicia with more protected spaces, regulated by a new law of natural heritage that has new impulses, such as the expansion of the Nature Network, a Nature Network in which one can live and a Nature Network in which one can work; or the possibility that one of our most comprehensive natural spaces, the Sacred River, will be declared a reservation of the biosphere as a step prior to being the heritage of humanity. We also walk to a Galicia with a more orderly and better planned territory, because our expansion must be rational and coherent. That's why we're going to renew the Land Management Act, which has been in force for more than 20 years, which will complement the recently approved Land Law. This text will seek to ensure that the different barriers develop in a balanced way, to curb or reduce demographic imbalances and to improve access to services and infrastructure by taking care of environmental and landscape issues at all times. This goal is still very much to see the city council's management. We need to keep working so everyone has an updated general urban management plan. And the little ones we're going to help them as soon as possible with the approval of a basic plan that serves as a model for 49 Greek municipalities with fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. We will continue to promote the harmony of buildings and fight against feism, so in the autonomous basic plan we plan to adopt next year we will integrate the recommendations of the professionals who are developing the guide of colors and materials. We will work for sustainable and responsible urban growth that integrates perfectly with the oldest buildings, which are also an important, undoubtedly, part of our heritage. We don't want to tear down the old buildings to make it happen to the new ones, but to improve them so they can fit into a beautiful, coherent set. So in this legislation, we will approve the Welsh Strategy of Rehabilitation to facilitate families today to revitalize the areas where the Greeks lived in other generations. This strategy includes rehabilitations of historic helmets driven by the Union as well as lines of support for families who want to rehabilitate both rural and urban housing. In addition, we will also promote a legislative change to promote this type of action and for the first time we will bring to the House the first law of rehabilitation and improvement of Galicia's historic set-up as a separate piece of legislation. In the past legislation the new Heritage Act shielded the protection of goods of cultural interest. In this new impulse, rehabilitation will ensure that houses that surround our safest monuments do not demean them, because they are also part of the legacy of our ancestors. Of course, we can't talk about heritage without talking about the paths of Santiago, for whom we are going to launch a rehabilitation plan and put in value the most outstanding heritage elements of the Jacobean route. Ladies and gentlemen, looking to the future is not to forget the past and make a blur and new account. We want Galicia to be firmly seated next decade on the shoulders of those who preceded us, Galicia of the future will be built on our natural heritage and our historical heritage. [[Applause]] In our essence as people is, of course, the state of well-being. Public health, public education and public social services are also an important part of our heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, we will remain non-conformists. After being able to shield public services in the face of the crisis, after being one of the few autonomous communities that has improved them remarkably in recent years, after that, for more reason now that we can work in the long term, we will not conform. I am convinced that the vast majority of us trust to leave our children and grandchildren a public health system, an educational public system and a first-level public social system. Including in this chapter, in a very special way, the need to continue to improve justice, an issue in which it is necessary to accelerate the challenge of computerization, as well as to create important infrastructures such as the City of Justice of Vigo, the new judicial building of Pontevedra, the new judicial building in Tui or the rehabilitation of the tobacco factory in the city of Coruña. At this point, I would like to explain to you that the new government will have as a novelty, among other things, the Galaga Infrastructure Agency, and this agency will assume the recruitment and construction processes of the health and education centres. In this way, departments that manage public services can devote all their efforts to it, improving public services. They will undoubtedly be the ones who decide where a hospital is located, how a hospital is expanded, where a health centre is put, where a school is set up, or where an institute is reformed. But it will be the Infrastructure Agency to ensure that the works are delivered in time and adequately integrated into the territory. Health, education and public social services can thus focus on responding to the great challenges of the public services of the 21st century, which I believe are customization and adaptation to the demographic context. We want public services that are at the service of the well-being of citizens, and we have to be able to give every problem of every Welshman the most appropriate solution in his case. In coping with this challenge we have a powerful ally, a powerful ally to support us, which is technology. It offers us incalculable possibilities for improving public services. We will continue to use it, as we have shown in the past to make the biggest health investment in innovation in the area of the Galician Health Service since its creation. Thanks to that, the waiting list data we know in June are the best since there are logs. And we want to continue to move forward — in addition to completing the bet so that in this decade 100 percent of the Greeks we have in our health area a new hospital or a renewed hospital and a new health center or a renewed health center — with new public outpatient clinics, of course; with three new major expansions: the great Montecelo, Pontevedra, as well as the public hospitals of Ferrol and the public hospital of the Navy; also expanding the public hospital of Santiago in the framework of the reorganization derived from the construction of the new Faculty of Medicine; completing the expansion of the public hospitals of Coruña and Ourense; and expanding also the emergencies of the public hospital of Barbados. Finally, together with the remodeling and updating of the Mexoeiro Hospital, we will complement and complete the pending works to make a new health service come true, from the point of view of their infrastructure. [[Applause]] In this way, we are weaving along and wide of our territory a network of well-being that supports all the Greeks. In fact, their main support is so much of the citizens we believe in these public services and that we will continue to defend them as the Greeks and the Greeks that make it possible every day: teachers, doctors, nursing, health care personnel, non-health personnel, social services staff. For them, as for the rest of the public employees, I would like to say that this legislation will be at which they recover the wage level lost during the crisis, and will recover from the first year of the legislation. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order for our network of well-being to be solid and sustainable, you must take into account one of the peculiarities of our land: demography. Public health, public education and public social services must have a vocation of permanence and a basis for them to adapt to the changes that Galicia will experience in the coming decades. I was saying before the structural challenges we have to give generational responses, not partisans. I'd like to need even more. When we talk about the welfare state, the answers must be intergenerational. We must be able to start a process of joint reflection, in which it participates from our youth to the Greeks with more springtimes, to be able to respond to the needs of all the Greeks. The Galician welfare network has to give intergenerational responses, from the cradle to the third age. With this philosophy, we are working to consolidate Galicia as the best place to be born and to be a child. We will continue throughout the legislation with the Welcome Card, designed to accompany the Greek families during the first year of their baby's life. In addition, those homes at risk of poverty or social exclusion will be entitled to it until the three years of the life of the child or child. Families are the atoms that make up the Galician society. We're going to work to provide suitable solutions for families in the 21st century, facing two essential challenges, such as rationalization of hours and reconciliation of working and family life. We want a Galician where parents have time to spend with their children, to accompany them and guide them in their growth and transmit values to them. That's why we will continue to expand public squares in children's schools, as we have seen since 2009. In this legislation we will consolidate the zero waiting list in children's schools and create new squares with the view placed on a much higher coverage ratio than the European Union proposes, specifically reaching 40% of the coverage ratio. Not only will we create a thousand new squares in the Blue Chicken network, but we will also improve what already exists, so that our children can enjoy better facilities. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, our goal is to give each family the solution that best fits their specific needs. For the homes where the parents work and their son get sick on time, we commit to them the Bono Care. For families who can't get access to a public nursery because they're complete, we commit to them the Bono Concilia. For parents who work in an industrial policy, we will subsidize their construction of childish schools. For rural families, we're going to extend the childcare pilot program, because we believe that smaller municipalities also have access and rights to childcare services. With the horizon of 2020, we will make it possible for the 313 municipalities in Galicia requesting it to be able to count on a conciliation service. [[Applause]] We are aware that founding a home is not an easy task, but since the autonomous government we will give the mothers and parents unconditional support. Galicia will continue to offer tax deductions to maternity and paternity. In addition, we will dialogue with the new Central Government to try to reduce the VAT from some basic products, such as leathers. The family has to occupy a central place in Greek politics, because it also occupies it in the lives of the Greeks and the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, if the 75 members of this House remind us of our slogans, this would have been a bad legislation. We must be reminded of our measures, for they have been useful to the families of this country. There's no better legacy than making Galicia the best place to build a family. This has nothing to do with acronyms or colors, it has to do with political responsibility. [[Applause]] The secret of our future, ladies and gentlemen, is that today's Greeks decide to bring the Greeks into the world tomorrow. We want the Greeks tomorrow to be trained in values, so that we will train our schoolchildren on equal terms, with regard to our symbols, in particular with regard to the language. We want the Greeks tomorrow to have all the doors open, so that we will extend multilingualism — as I said — to children's education and vocational training. We want the Greeks tomorrow to freely choose the path they want to take, for which we will continue to increase the opportunities offered by vocational training and maintain the cheapest university rates in Spain. Galicia 2020 is going to offer many more opportunities to the Welsh and Germans of the Statute generation. We're going to work so those who have taken the path of emigration and want to return to their land can do it. Although Galicia is the Spanish community with a lower rate of youth emigration, we are aware that many girls and boys at the time of the recession did not find an opportunity on this land. At the same time, we're going to try to bring second- and third-generation Greeks who are residing in countries where traditionally in the 1960s and 1950s the Greeks emigrated. The return of these Greeks from Argentina, Uruguay, Cuba or Venezuela will also help revitalize our society and fill Galicia with new blood that drives us in the coming decade. We're going to bring solutions to the Greeks that have just been born, to the children and boys and to the parents and mothers of the family, but also to our elders. No one doubts that they are an indispensable part of Galicia. Without his experience, his dedication and his opinions, the country we know would simply not exist. In order for them to continue to perceive their importance for Galicia, we are betting on active aging. We will continue to strengthen our attention to dependency, both by creating new public squares and by pushing the home aid service, so that the elderly can receive the necessary care at home. The demographic challenge we are facing is especially a significant challenge for all, but especially within public services, not only for social services, but for public health. We face a paradigm shift, where it will be necessary to renew the way in which health services are understood. In Galicia of the future health will not be limited to the physical spaces of hospitals and health centres. We're going to develop a German Chronic Care Plan, so that it can give patients more tools to alleviate their illness. We are going to strengthen home hospital units and home care since primary care. The house itself is the ideal place to improve the quality of life of the patient. We will also adopt a programme of api to older people living alone, especially in rural areas, to improve their eating habits and encourage physical activity. Also, thanks to the digital home, we want to improve communication with health professionals from home at twenty-four hours a day. We will continue to advance towards a health care that gives more importance to prevention than treatment, with the Italian Antimicrobial Resistance Plan and the extension of colon cancer crybate, which will apply throughout Galicia, after these years of piloting experiences, starting next year. Finally, in this legislation we are going to promote intergenerational response to Galicia's problems today and tomorrow. A Galician that guarantees sustainable well-being for the Greeks, from younger to older, without neglecting specific realities, such as disability, a collective with which we will continue to work, their hand, to facilitate their integration and their accessibility. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve this goal, I would like to hold them by hand. I want to take this moment to invite you to reflect together on the demographic challenge. It's a challenge that doesn't understand political colors and that affects all of us equally. Demography will be a central issue in which we are left for the decade and more in the near future. Finding answers is not just the Government's task, but the whole of Galician society, and of course the 75 Members and Members of this House, who together we should continue to promote the debate on this matter, in all national forums, but also in all European forums. Giving social and economic support to the demographic context, to the public services of the future, is a challenge that calls for us in the short, medium and long term. But immediately, also collectively, we have to deal with another capital matter which I refer to at the beginning of this intervention. I am talking about the negotiation of the new model of self-financing, which, of course, must be completed here on the subject of local funding. Ladies and gentlemen, three are the criteria on which Galicia's initial position will be based, of course, regardless of the arrivals I hope to receive from all groups of the House. I didn't want ours to be a government position, but a position of everyone. That's why I'm setting out some basic lines that obey the interests of the country and its reality. It would be incomprehensible for Greeks like us to defend political positions that may be in favour of other historical nationalities, but not Galicia. Unscrupulous trading would be reckless, reckless and terriblely harmful for the viability of self-government. Firstly, funding must be stable; secondly, funding must be sustainable; and thirdly, funding must be progressive. The financing must be stable to the provisionality which has been addressed before, especially in the current model, which runs counter to the rigour required of such a matter of relevance. Galicia needs to complete institutional and political stability with the stability of the autonomous financing model. We understand that such an elemental principle can only be discussed by those who wish to have a permanent Korean state — and consequently weak. Secondly, funding should be sustainable. Central government and autonomous communities add up to two parts of the same State, which share rights derived from the Community and international commitments of Spain. Nor is it worth a model that ends up being frustrating by unreal or by making autonomy the poor and beggar relative of the Spanish public administrations. And thirdly, funding must be progressive. If there is supposed to be a solidarity transvasion between higher and lower personal incomes, through taxes, that same principle should not cause fear when applied to people who live in different autonomous communities. Nor is the fact that the meeters are given priority, against those who have applied the rule in a lax and clearly little strict manner, and have benefited from the systematic failure to meet the public deficit. [[Applause]] To these three guidelines could add the idea that the new financing system is exactly that: a financing system. It would be a mistake to try to resolve problems of an identity in this debate. The reason is obvious: the well-being of citizens, which is what is ultimately at stake, cannot be at odds with pressures derived from low-responsive play. It would seem otherwise incongruent that if they were given the same rank to sovereignist claims of some specific community parties than to the factors that really measure the needs of citizens, such as population dispersion, the cost of infrastructures or the demographic challenge. The first is subjective, the second is clearly objective. I fully trust the latter to mark the path of the new state executive, who has to lead this debate, among other things because the President of the Government has already made concrete commitments, such as the inclusion of a Demographic Cohesion Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the groups of this House can have different ideologies, of course, but I sincerely believe that in this matter we all have the same answer to the question that Galicia needs, which interests Galicia in the new financing model. Of course, I would rather start this debate in the State with the question that seems to dominate all the forums: with what model would certain sovereignist options be comfortable, in view of a scheme made up of such or which community? I want Galicia to be a voicer of Galicia and defend an equal position of all citizens. And, of course, that's what we're going to do with force, but with loyalty to the state, of what we're part of. [[Applause]] Because, ladies and gentlemen, self-government is not valued by the degree of agitation or controversy it causes, but by its effectiveness in solving problems. That some Welsh people are worried about their identity or that certain political sectors use that identity as something controversial, doesn't mean that Galicia is in a divan wondering what it is. Galicia is standing and has just clearly stated which way she wants to go. And that doesn't mean, at least, that our community is less marked than others. Ours is simply an integrative identity. I know that, in view of the level of crispation that there are — that some autonomic leaders encourage — there may seem to be those who find it impossible to combine State loyalty with Galicia's legitimate defence of interests. But of course it's possible. Galicia has contributed in the past to the economic improvement and stability of Spain, without preventing it from raising its voice when we consider that some decision was not fair or positive to our community. This same attitude will mark the next few years if I gain the confidence of this House. Especially to ensure that the blockade suffered in Spain in recent months has not prevented the State from fulfilling its commitments to Galicia for far more than ten months. The clearest example of this that I'm telling you is high speed, that we'll ask it to be completed. Both in the planned events, especially for the planned Horizon 2018, and to include other news that are also essential, as well as the connection of AVE to Lugo and Lugo-Ourense-Madrid in less than three hours. And we're not going to give up on this. [[Applause]] At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to transfer what I am counting on with the support of all the groups to defend that Galicia cannot pay with the AVE that has been pending for decades or the budgetary privileges that some want to obtain or not the bill of paralysis that has been because of who has committed to prolong it for almost a year. I am fully aware that the national situation demands more will of dialogue and agreements than ever before. The open majority I propose to develop in Galicia for more reason has to practice in the state as a whole, given the parliamentary arithmetic. This situation is not new. Not so many years ago, another Central Government has ruled in the minority. But my request, my confidence and also my commitment are that the script that follows is not the same as the last time that government ruled a minority. At that time, the result was not favourable because that situation — we all remember it — resulted in the submission of sixteen autonomous communities to the interests of the political groups of an remaining community, which, being important, is no more important than the others. Parliamentary stability in our country is fundamental. But it will not be achieved at the cost of investments or any other need for funding from Galicia or any other community. The result of this negotiation we've seen: it was a historic failure. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia will always ask for two prerequisites in relations with the central government and the other autonomys: loyalty and unity. Without them, any possible answer to the problem presented by some in a unilateral and illegal way will be a mistake with disastrous consequences for the stability of our democracy; consequences that would affect the autonomic model, consequently the self-government of Galicia. That's why we'll be vigilant and always try to add up, not to stay. I mean, therefore, the unit. This is an objective and fundamental aspect that should not be diverted to properly focus our country's participation in common tasks. There's no state space and no autonomics, but they're both the same. That's why to mention the relations between Galicia and the state, or between any other autonomous community and the state, is at best a bad habit of ordinary speech, and at worst a trap with which sovereignist proposals are to be paid. In accordance with this principle — precisely set out in Article 137 of the Constitution — Spain's development of self-government must be given priority to the greater, more intense and more frequent participation of communities in the definition of State policies. Galicia's claim — which becomes a model of stability and political strength — is to expand the connection of central and autonomous bodies in order to transform the state into a genuine community of autonomy. We aspire to a broad and permanent connection that allows the state will to be an aggregate in which autonomous will also participate. There is no more to expose the motive idea of Title VIII of the Spanish Constitution, without the need for further and controversial constitutional reforms; to establish that the Conference of Presidents is no longer exceptional and almost symbolic in order to become ordinary and effective. That in my opinion, in our opinion, would be a step forward. [[Applause]] There is no greater enemy of the debate about the territorial model than nominalism. We are forced to discuss words that soon become labels to end up being euphemism. It's funny that apparently more devaluedism is what offers the most precision and, at the moment, more consensus. I mean autonomy. We know it's autonomy. It is reflected in the statutes and already has a reasonable period of operation. However, we ignore the fact that federalism is proposed or the multinational state, which acts as a mantra for some sectors. To those who urge an immediate reform of the Constitution in order to respond to the secessionist challenge, one must ask: Why? And for whom? The first paragraph of Article 138 of the Constitution points out that the State must ensure solidarity and economic balance between the territories. Is this an obsolete warrant? The second paragraph warns that differences between statutes cannot involve economic or social privileges. Is this paragraph to be repealed? Article 139 of the Constitution establishes the same rights and obligations for Spaniards throughout the territory of the State. Can we consider an old-fashioned thing that governs all democratic countries? We can explain that before we embark on a debate of this calibre. And it is appropriate to clarify in advance whether it is to promote the functioning of the autonomous state as a whole or to deploy certain leaders from certain autonomous communities. Galicia cannot support a process that has no direction and no point of arrival, nor does it support systematic insubordination to the legal framework that we have done among all. [[Applause]] Let me add something else in this chapter. Ladies and gentlemen, you will certainly agree that it is surprising that some who advocate urgent constitutional reform, or even a new constitutional process, are reluctant to cross-border political pacts. Capulets and Montescos exist in their political culture; there are parties with which a sort of apartheid must be practiced. Overcoming those anomalous prejudices in any Democrat would be a necessary condition for a successful eventual reform. I'm going to finish now, ladies and gentlemen. I appreciate your patience. Nothing they're referring to so far will fulfill the expectations of the Greeks if the rhetoric of this rostrum does not translate into facts. I am perfectly aware of the immense responsibility my people, Galicia I feel, Galicia I love, Galicia I respect, have provided me. But I wouldn't feel, I wouldn't love, I wouldn't respect democratic Galicia if I thought that responsibility was infinite in function and time. Galicia is my land, but Galicia is not exclusively mine or none of this House, because Galicia is everyone's. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia is the one that we occupy the government benches and the opposition benches; it is the one who put us with their votes in this Parliament and those who preferred to stay in the house; it is the one who follows this session and also those who don't want to know anything about us. [[Applause]] Galicia is everyone's, and we all have a responsibility to do it for us so our children can have a chance to make it their own. Here's the moment, here's the reason, here's the obligation of those we are called upon to answer with our work the questions that have been raised to us. I know that the past legislation does not constitute the best example of behaviour this House should have, but democracy does not understand resentment. The sins that could be committed between these walls have already been spied out in the polls. That's why I don't demand respect for myself, for my Government or for my group; I demand respect for most of the Greeks represented here. I demand respect as a citizen, and I call for cooperation as a politician so that our responsibility which has given our people to us all and each one of us may manifest itself in the fruits of our work. [[Applause]] If in 2009 I had the group I belong to with thirty-eight Members, if in 2012 with forty-one, and now again with forty-one and even more votes behind, it's because I understand the absolute majority not as a closed absolutism but as an open consensus to which more and more Greeks can be added, so do you. Despite all the disappointments accumulated since 2009, despite the negative response from the opposition, except for exceptions — which I remember very well the exceptions and the groups — every time the Greeks asked us to sum up efforts to combat the crisis, most of the time we did not have them. But I assure you that I have the same disposition as the first day to incorporate everyone into a country policy, because Galicia never excludes anyone. There is a majority that is open to all Greeks and open to all members of this House. The first step to get us to work together and share responsibilities, which in a parliamentary system does not reach a single person, is to accept the result of the vote that will put an end to this debate next Thursday. If we believe in democracy above personal daughters and phobias, in progress above party struggles and in Galicia above all, I'm sure that the negative votes I can receive in my investment will not be a brake on the progress of this land, just as the favorables cannot be a blank check for the government that I aspire to lead. In the face of the democracy of the acrylic and non-circuit, the Greeks always say it depends. Hopeful does not depend, we forget the dialectic of easy applause and the blow on the table, so that the only gesture that matters is what improves the lives of our fellow citizens, and so that what replaces what we ask each time we get questioned by means of our vote in this Parliament. Galicia and Spain were built on great consensus that we can update. But that won't be possible if we don't make an effort to recover them before. Losing fear of agreement is the first step in coping with the future without cowardice. The Greeks would not understand that the seventy-five Members and Members of this House did not agree in defending everything that unites us, everything that is part of our personality as a people and our future as a country. The Greeks would not understand, ultimately, that our egos were above self-government that the generosity of those who preceded us made possible. I sincerely believe that an idea is not good or bad depending on who proposes it, but on our ability to put it into practice for the benefit of citizenship. I sincerely believe that consensus is not an end in itself, but rather the best means of transforming the country, with the participation of all those who represent their plurality, without exclusion, without vetoes and without red lines. I believe, frankly, that we are faced with another opportunity. But this is no longer the first time we've seen the train pass in a hurry while we've been arguing. Before, with their votes, the citizens of this country judged the political project that I was lucky to lead over these years, I uttered a sentence that condenses into five words my way of understanding and exercising politics at this biological and political height in which I find myself: I am militant of Galicia. I believe that all of you, on the left and on the right, can do these words too, and we can all carry the spirit of the greatest party in this country, the party of 2,700,000 militants: Galicia. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we exercise that militia to defend one of our greatest signs of identity, but also a great asset to the challenges we face: our language. After moving, along with civil society, a plan of economic dynamization, it's time to make one's own among young people, who is the wife of Galicia coming. We exercise that militancy to preserve our past, through Galicia's digital memory, so that our present leaps with the set-up of a cultural dynamization network and our culture has a future, driven by new actions as a plan for the Greek audiovisual sector. We exercise that militancy to hold bridges, narrow ties and show the world the pride of what we are and represent, not to separate ourselves or others. We exercise that militancy to plot our future together. The members of the Group We and the already centenarian Brotherhood of Speech, the Galeguist in the Second Republic, the heroes of cultural resistance and the parents of our autonomy, the presidents Albor, González Laxe, Fraga and Emilio Pérez Touriño — all of them from different thoughts — shared the same militancy: Galicia. His first answer was always Galicia. They said Galicia and now Galicia is present, because, despite the difficulties we have faced during the last century, the Greeks never cease to exercise what we are: Greeks. [[Applause]] Galicia is present all over the world, where there is a Greek, and we must present it right here, among whom we have the honour to represent them all. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce this investment so that the Greeks will be present for the next four years, in the same way that they were present in every and every one of the decisions we make at the most difficult times. I'm introducing myself to this investment because Galicia is present in my thoughts, in my feelings and in my behavior since I am president of the board, and also before. Because Galicia is aware and because, above all, I am convinced that Galicia deserves to have a future. [[Applause]] This future, ladies and gentlemen, brought the Welsh and the Greek in the same way as the lives of those we're here. We are beside them in what they do and at their disposal in what they decide. It is the Greeks and the Greeks who have placed us here; it is the Greeks and the Greeks whom we owe; it is the Greeks and the Greeks whom I owe to them all that they are. I have no words to thank the Greeks and the Greeks for their trust, but I can assure them that my answer will be to be able to look into their eyes every day at their service. And when I'm no longer here, after giving everything to myself to fulfill the greatest honor of my life: Galicia, Galicia, Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-11-08-DSPG002.u6	Thank you very much, candidate. The parliamentary groups will be in accordance with Rule 136 of the Rules of Procedure and will be on 10 November, i.e. on Thursday, last morning, and will be at 11.30 a.m. Thank you very much, the session is suspended.
