ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. The session is open. He justified the non-attendance of Mrs. Cristina Romero Fernández. Let's start with the legislative texts. Debates and votes by Ditame, drawn up by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, on the draft law on the cultural heritage of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u2	The amendments of the Joint Parliamentary Group, of the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galga de Left, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego and of the Socialist Parliamentary Group are kept for the plenary. The president of Commission 4th, Education and Culture, Mr Antonio Mouriño, spoke for the presentation of the commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u3	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor for Culture, Education and Vocational Education, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the Fourth Committee on Education and Culture, I should like to present to this plenary the Ditam of the draft law on Galician cultural heritage. The project was entered into Parliament's Register on December 4, 2015. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 9 December 2015, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 29 December for amendments to the whole and on 29 January 2016 for amendments to the articulated. Even so, listening to the Speaker's Board, he agreed to the 4th Commission on Education and Culture. The amendments to the whole, qualified by the Bureau of the committee at the meeting on 27 January 2016 and published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia No. 591, of 28 January 2016, were a total of three: one from the Joint Parliamentary Group, one from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gallaga Alternative and one from the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block. They were all rejected at the plenary meeting on 9 February 2016. The amendments to the joint tabled and qualified by the Bureau of the Committee at its meeting on 10 February 2016 and published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia No. 599 of 11 February 2016 were a total of 633: 204 of the Joint Parliamentary Group, 201 of the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left, 176 of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, 50 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia and 2 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia. At its meeting on 25 April 2014, Commission 4th on Education and Culture appointed the following speakers: For the Popular Parliamentary Group, Fr. Agustín Baamonde Díaz, holder, and Mr. Cesar Manuel Fernández Gil, alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of Socialists of Galicia, Fr Emilio Vázquez Blanco, holder, and Ms Maria Concepción Burgo López, alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Ms. Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, holder, and Mr. Cosme Eladio Pombo Rodríguez, alternate. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mr José Javier Ron Fernández, holder, and Mr Ramón Vázquez Díaz, alternate. And by the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Maria Consuelo Martínez García, headline, and Mrs. Monica Fernández Rodríguez, alternate. The inaugural session of the presentation took place on March 2, 2016, where the methodology and the working calendar were established. The following meetings were held on 21, 28, 30 and 31 March and 6 and 8 April 2016. The proposed amendments and the project text were analysed. The last meeting was held on 8 April 2016 and the report was finalized; it was discussed and voted on at the 4th meeting of the Committee on 14 April, at which all the recommendations made by the presentation in its report were collected. The articulated text of the ditam is structured into 141 articles, distributed in a preliminary title and 10 titles. Title I establishes the classification of the assets of Galician cultural heritage. It defines the protection environment and regulates the buffer zone. This title also creates the Census of Cultural Heritage. Title II regulates the generic regime for the protection and conservation of Galician cultural heritage. In Title III, the details regarding the specific protection scheme for declared goods of cultural interest are inserted. Title IV establishes the specific regime for the protection of goods of the Galician Cultural Heritage Catalogue. Title V includes the peculiarities of the intangible heritage. Title VI collects and regulates the Santiago Road Protection Scheme. In the following title, Title VII sets out the different specific heritages which are part of Galicia's cultural heritage. Title VIII establishes the network of museums and creates the network and the Galician Museum System. Title IX regulates the promotion of Galicia's cultural heritage, establishing the essential measures for its provision and favoring its conservation. Finally, title X regulates the inspector activity and the sanctioning regime. The final part of the text includes a series of forecasts aimed at ordering and defining commitments for regulatory development and putting at the disposal of citizenship and advertising instruments for cultural heritage assets, as well as establishing the necessary transitional rules and delimiting the entry into force of the various obligations raised in this document. So far a summary of the work assigned to Commission 4th, which I am presiding over. It is up to me today to submit your Ditami to your consideration of the plenary. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u4	Thank you, Mr. Mouriño. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship, and if so, to defend the amendments maintained. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. We kept the amendments. We presented 203 amendments, of which 16 were accepted and traded 7; so we kept the remaining 179 amendments. I can't defend each of them, so I'll group them according to their motives and explain some of them. There are amendments related to the object to be protected, such as Amendments 13, 15, 16 and 17 to Article 9, to include as objects to protect biodiversity, oak trees, strawberries and the Atlantic Mountains, which coincide with Amendment 26 to Article 10, which seeks cataloguing as an asset of cultural interest from the indigenous landscapes. We also maintain, in relation to the object to be protected, amendments 23 to 25 to article 10, which aim to take into account, in addition to historical and architectural interest, social interest, in which, for example, washing machines would be included. This amendment is supplemented by Amendments Nos 142 and 144 to Article 92, to apply to washing machines the protection that applies to horreros, cruises and pockets of souls. We consider the washing machines, even if they do not take into account the text of the bill, to tell the story, basically, of the Greek women. The laundry was where they met and where they articulated many of the actions they carried out in history. Also amendments 137 to 141 to Article 91, which add as an ethnological heritage the docks, beacons, maritime signs, useful marines or popular songs. All traditional agricultural and fisheries equipment should be part of the cultural heritage. Also amendment 155 to article 10, to define the bibliographic heritage that remains undefined. We also present and maintain amendments related to the participation, rights and duties of the citizen, such as Amendment 4 to Article 5, which includes the obligation of any citizen to communicate the danger of deterioration or destruction of property, as well as the obligation of the Administration to verify the truthfulness of the complaint. It cannot be allowed, and the law should lay down the obligation that any citizen should inform the Administration of the danger of deterioration or destruction of the property and the obligation of the Administration itself to act immediately in response to these complaints, because we believe that it is the only way to prevent the deterioration of the property. Amendment 53 to Articles 23, 55 and 56 to Articles 25 and 62 to Article 29 also requests that information on property ownership be made public when belonging to a company, foundation, organization or religious entity. We understand that some data is protected; data from owners who cannot be made public, but when this data is from societies, organizations or religious entities should be publicized. We also maintain Amendment No 71 to Article 34, which calls for the public exposure of all plans, programmes and projects that may affect cultural heritage, and which should be subject to a period of public information. Any action that may be carried out and may affect the assets should have a period of public exposure so that persons can pronounce themselves on that impact. We also keep amendments related to the Catholic Church. We can say that this law, as its text is contemplated, we could call it a confessional law. We therefore submit and maintain Amendment 5 to Article 6, which obliges the Union to draw up a relationship of cultural heritage on behalf of the Catholic Church and to claim the return – of the habeles – of the properties duly inscribed on its name. In Galicia there is no relation of the properties in the name of the Church, in which year they were dedicated to the Church, and whether that adjudication is legitimate or not. So it's about establishing that relationship and claiming those properties that are legitimately ascribed and registered in the name of the Catholic Church. We also maintain Amendment No 6 to Article 7, which eliminates the Joint Joint Committee as an advisory and advisory body in the field of cultural heritage, and Amendment No 14 to Article 9, which seeks to limit social, ritual, ceremonial or holiday uses as an asset. And we add that they don't have a confessional character. Ceremonies, rituals or religious acts cannot be part of the cultural heritage, but they are, in any case, the heritage of each religious confession. Amendments also related to advisory and advisory bodies, such as Amendment 11 to Article 7, to include the Technical Committee of Museums among the advisory bodies. We do not understand why they refuse to accept this amendment when, until now, it was part of this committee, the Technical Committee of Museums. Amendment 12 to Article 7 too, so that all the real schools and universities in Greece are part of the consultative bodies. One thing we don't understand is why, for example, the Royal Language Academy is not part of the consultative bodies, when the language is part of the unimportant heritage of Greek. Amendment 79 to Article 44, which claims that in order to eliminate some construction of past periods of good time, there must be a favourable report from the advisory bodies. Article 44 states that the administrative silence would allow for the destruction of assets, and we believe that, in any case, we can never, if there is no favourable report from the advisory bodies, eliminate or destroy assets. Amendment 91 to Article 52 also establishes the need for a good visa of the advisory bodies for the transfer of immovable property which are part of the cultural heritage. We speak not of furniture, but of immovable property; therefore, of destroying a construction and moving it from place to place, and for that we find it important that consultative bodies act, because in every law the consultative bodies are called but they are not given any role to those advisory bodies, and then they do not act on any of the decisions to be made, and most of them are settled by administrative silence. We also keep amendments related to the protection of heritage, since the bill is excessively deprotective. So, we keep Amendment 34 to Article 14 to correct the text of the bill, since it eliminates any duty to protect, maintain and preserve assets that form part of the Census of Galician Cultural Heritage. We understand that any asset that is part of the Census, although not part of the Catalogue, should – in principle and preventively – be subject to protection, maintenance and conservation. We also maintain Amendment 35 to Article 14, which provides as appropriate the authorization of the competent council in the field of heritage to act on any property included in the Census of Cultural Heritage, and Amendment 128 to Article 85, to prohibit, without exclusion, the destruction of the assets of the artistic heritage. It's incomprehensible that a law that, in theory, is born to protect heritage establishes the permit for its destruction; it's the first time. Laws are to protect, and here's a law that says that because they have no social interest, because they don't have certain very subjective issues – which also doesn't mark who has to define those issues; you don't know who would define them – if you can destroy heritage or goods that are included within the Cultural Heritage Census. We also keep amendments related to the administrative silence to change their meaning, since we understand that this is employed against the interest of safeguarding the heritage. So, we maintain Amendment 36 to Article 16, where the administrative silence dismisses the declaration of good. In any case, administrative silence can never deprotect good. If the administrative silence dismisses the declaration of good it is saying that that good can be destroyed, modified and abandoned. So it's a risk of destroying something that has value just because you don't act as long as you've established in your own law. Amendment 58 to article 26 and Amendment 60 to article 28, where administrative silence dismisses the inclusion of a property in the Catalogue of Galician Cultural Heritage. Once again, the administrative silence serves to deprotect and, therefore, to authorize the destruction of the heritage. We therefore believe that administrative silence should in any event, if not limited, prolong the conservation and protection of good. We maintain Amendment No 72 to Article 34, where administrative silence allows municipalities to operate in areas with cultural goods to be preserved without the binding report of the competent council, and of course without a report of the advisory and advisory bodies. In other words, it can be destroyed by works in the municipal heritage simply by leaving the Union itself. And Amendment 152 to Article 108, which allows the destruction of assets that are part of the scientific and technical heritage without the authorization of the competent councillor. We can therefore state that the administrative silence in this law is directed in all cases to deprotect the heritage and thus allow its destruction or modification. We also maintain amendments related to the actions of the Welsh Administration, such as Amendment 70 to Article 33, which adds the duty of protecting, preserving and enriching the Greek cultural heritage by the Administration. The incredible thing is that the board doesn't accept in a law that its function is to protect, preserve and enrich the heritage, I don't know if it's because the object of the board is another. We also maintain Amendment 74 to Article 35, which adds the signature of protocols between Union and municipalities to ensure the protection and conservation of cultural heritage. Nor do we understand why they refuse to establish these heritage conservation protocols. And Amendment No 77 to Article 43 on the assumption of political responsibilities for damage and loss of cultural heritage, because all of this administrative silence and all of the measures of deprotection since then include sanctions for people, but there is no sanction or assumption of political responsibilities for the abandonment of functions and abandonment of heritage. We also maintain Amendment 86 to Article 47, which adds a new article that regulates the obtaining of licenses to perform works in the heritage. And Amendment No 90 to Article 50, which states that the listed assets owned by the Autonomous Community are irrevocable, unbending and inalienable; something which has not been accepted by the Government, by the People's Party. We maintain the amendments in relation to immaterial heritage, such as Amendment No 107, which adds a new article defining immaterial cultural heritage, which is not defined in the law; Amendment No 108 to Article 168, which obliges the Union to ensure the use of toponyms in all areas, institutions and entities of the Administration – especially because it does not have to listen again to Rajoy who has been in "Sanjenjo" and has passed through Ghrove, those things that Mr. Rajoy tells us on television. Also Amendment 109 to Article 69, so that Galician Radio-Television broadcasts programs that value intangible cultural heritage. The People's Party is again denied using Galician Radio-Television as a cultural audiovisual medium that transmits the culture and values of our country. We also maintain amendments 118 and 119, which add two new articles in relation to the Greek language as an immaterial heritage and urgent measures with regard to it. And Amendment 158 to Article 122, to encourage in compulsory education the normalized use of Greek and knowledge of Galician heritage, history and culture. This is indeed a scandal, that the People's Party, the party that supports the Government, refuses to promote in teaching the normalized use of Greek and the knowledge of Galician heritage, history and culture. They'll explain why you refuse. Many amendments also aim to convert multiple non-definitions of actions that may or may not be brought to an end. These definitions appear in Amendments 43, 44, 82, 83, 85, 96, 110, 113, 114, 133 and 146. They all talk about things that can be done, but they don't establish when they can, under what conditions, who can... so what they say is they don't do things. We maintain the amendments related to the system of shortcomings and sanctions, which we consider to be excessively benevolent, and we maintain all the amendments to Articles 129 to 131 and 144, related to the qualification of shortcomings, which I consider to be scarce coercive. There are really very serious shortcomings that are classified as mild; serious, very serious faults there are few; and there are shortcomings that are regarded as light and which, however, destroy the heritage. So our amendments are intended to establish a greater gravity for the shortcomings; greater protection of the heritage and greater responsibility for those who are responsible for the destruction of the heritage and for the political responsibilities of those who allow these actions. Finally, we will vote against this bill because, rather than protect, protect cultural heritage and disregard immaterial cultural heritage, hampering the knowledge of our culture and our language by our youth and through school, and by not using this law to enhance and protect material and intangible cultural heritage and not protect the biodiversity and the Greek landscapes. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u7	Good morning to all and to all. This is the third time we have discussed this text and, as we have said when we proceed to defend the text of return to the whole, today we have to say that we continue to denounce the same cases, denounce the final process resulting from the decision-making process, because in substance nothing has changed, neither in the epistemic nor in the judicial-administrative, in taxonomy, from the point of view of ideology and from the point of view of the introduction of the free market; nothing has changed and everything remains the same. So we present 201 amendments, and the great generosity of the People's Party has accepted 14, and 2 transactions. So, as we see, it is clear that the will of dialogue was quite small, quite non-existent. We accept from the Gaga de Left Alternative that, logically, our ideological stance with respect to cultural heritage is totally different from what the People's Party defends on the right, which, as we said, wants to convert our heritage into a good of tourist interest, into a good of commercial interest, and we say that culture is not a commodity. So from the first amendment, from Amendments 1 and 2 to the title of Article 1, we propose to radically change the definition of the People's Party of Culture, of cultural heritage. We propose a broad definition, involving, social, inclusive, participatory, that deepens the maximum responsibility of the Galician Union as public administration in ensuring the protection, protection, restoration, conservation, safeguarding, research, dissemination and dissemination of our historical, cultural and natural heritage. And we also record from there and until the end of the 201 amendments the express recognition of the right of citizenship to participate in decision-making, in their accessibility, in the knowledge and enjoyment of the cultural and cultural heritage, incorporating the dimension of cultural heritage into the social and ecological good that we have to transmit. We often speak of a hidden and silent cultural wealth that requires – as the specialist in Theory of Cultural Heritage González Varas says – "of an act of will to be exhumed from the noises of forgetfulness". And you are, of course, very comfortable leaving it in forgetfulness, because so the market and those market laws can do what they want with our historical, cultural and natural heritage; at the bottom, with our history, with our memory. Heritage allows us to understand what we are, but we must not be confused, we cannot become synonymous with culture and cultural heritage. Cultural heritage is a critical selection of significant witnesses, both material and immaterial, cultural and natural, of our past; a critical selection that depends on social, ideological and intellectual valuations, which speaks of our relationship from now on with our past. So as a selection, this cannot be the result of an evading process of participation, as is the case today, it needs the broadest participation in its definition and conformation. This fact is fundamental to place cultural heritage in its context, in its community, overcoming its own approaches of the 19th century which revolved around monumentalism and the museum as dominant institutions and which send us to an elite, exclusive and made from above. It will not be necessary to remember that in 1954 the Hague Convention introduced the notion of cultural good to overcome precisely that decimononic approach, as it seeks to be more inclusive and covers more aspects that go beyond the materiality of monumentalism. The selection with the participation of the whole community in its broadest sense, that's what we defend in our amendments, because that's what will allow a cultural object to become cultural good. This selection can only reach a good port if there is a historical work, and this fact only makes sense in a society which has institutionalized historical knowledge in education and which is also present in the social media. Well, we can clearly say that education is not present, and through the exercise of amendments that you have refused, because it will not be present. And if he's not present in education, we can hardly raise awareness about the importance of our past; our past in this present, to explain precisely and not make the mistakes we're making. That's why the resulting text is directed and paternalist, at the same time as exclusive, and analogous to the 19th century is thought of from above. From that point on, our amending concern was aimed at incorporating participation at all times from Amendment 4 to Article 1, to guarantee the right of access to culture and to the participation of citizens and local communities. You refuse that. From Amendment 14 to Article 4, access and knowledge and enjoyment of Galicia's cultural heritage abroad through all appropriate means, including technology, to know from here what we have outside and that was created by our diaspora. They also deny that, it's very complicated. From Amendment 17 to Article 5, the right of citizenship to access and participation in decision-making, from below to above, in all organs. You also refuse. From Amendment 20 to Article 6, where we introduced the Catholic Church's obligation to promote the access and participation of the citizenship of local communities in decision-making. Nor do you follow the prerogative of the Catholic Church. Let's remember that there are more than 4,000 parish churches in Galicia, more than 4,000! And who's getting those churches out of the mud and forgetfulness? Is it the Catholic Church itself? Is that the Public Service? No, it's the local communities that try to keep them alive. And you even deny that participation and deny that right. In Amendments 22, 23 and 25 to Article 7, of institutional academic participation, we have made a broad commitment to incorporate all technical commissions that are appropriate from the point of view of academic disciplines and all bodies that are dedicated to studying, working and deepening our historical, cultural and natural heritage in all its dimensions. Amendment 77 to Article 36(1) defines access, and we ask once again for the legislator's firm will to have the competent public administration lay down the appropriate measures to allow such knowledge, access and enjoyment, because you refuse. And that is why I am going to say that one of the amendments that, of course, produces more annoyance to us than to accept it is Amendment 201, where we want to add a new provision and make us note and we ask that within two years of the entry into force of this law, in cooperation with the representative entities of functional diversity in Galicia, a map of the main goods of cultural interests and catalogued to be carried out in them the relevant actions of location, signalectics, pedestrian itineraries, manageability, information, understandable and friendly, to comply with universal accessibility rules and that no one is excluded from the knowledge and enjoyment of our historical, cultural and natural heritage. An amendment of difficult silence, of course, for you, that prefers that part of citizenship cannot access to the knowledge of our historical, cultural and natural heritage. That's discrimination for us. And you're still mostly stranded to do it. Amendment 106 to Article 43(3) speaks of intervention and final memory projects. We ask people to participate with knowledge of the scientific and professional disciplines involved in research, conservation, restoration or rehabilitation. You accepted only one. We don't understand why you don't accept this dialogue of two meetings; a dialogue that we're going to keep here to accept the full participation of professionals in the sector, so that they won't be aggravated by this famous tourism decree that obliges them to qualify. It's an absolute sense that you don't act that way. But also imperatively, a law has to do with our historical, cultural and natural heritage, it has to dialogue with science; this aspect, of course, that is absent in the Council of Galicia, because you have to remember that I am able to overcome the systematic and scientific differences to convert all cold mineral-medicine water into water waters by mere tourist and mercantil claim, as you are doing with the goods of cultural interest, about those that hang on this bill to conversion into goods of tourist and commercial interest. That's the purpose of this bill. There is also Article 38, so nothing can prevent free market initiatives. But in the free market against cultural heritage, it always loses the cultural heritage and loses our identity as a people. That's why we cannot defend this absolute lack of science, of a scientific nature, which you demonstrate in chapter I of Title I. It is true that there may be differences and nuances, but there are many aspects that are left out, which are seriously degraded from the scientific point of view and from the point of view of bureaucratic complexity. You make everything more bureaucratically complex. They turn safe aspects into legally insecure and maintain conceptual and epistemic confusions that are serious from a point of view, to our understanding, academic. That's why AGE offers a wide range of amendments, from 27 to 38, which try to give them a more appropriate form to articles 8 and 14, to incorporate a more scientific and academic taxonomy at the same time as the most secure and less complex from the point of view of bureaucracy, and other aspects that we have already stated. For example, in this regard, we want to highlight a few. It is impossible to speak of everything, but in the underwater archaeological heritage – amendments 163 to 166 to article 102, where this heritage is defined – we introduce a definition of what must be understood by Galicia's underwater archaeological charter and where we collect the obligations of the competent council in this regard in cooperation with the public universities of Greece for documental reconstruction, the comprehensive inventory of shipwrecks, carry out the database and actions of awareness-raising and recognition of the education system. You didn't accept anything, you just accepted the name, yes, of the underwater archaeological charter, because you didn't have it, but the Greek coast is important from the point of view of the underwater archeological heritage, and you have to work well, work it scientifically, and work it from the point of view of awareness so that it doesn't happen what you do with the Rande bridge, which have logically loaded what is on the feet of that bridge. For example, we could talk about the ethnoanthropological and intangible heritage, where we, through our Amendment 34, consider a much more accurate definition. You, in fact, don't define it here, you stay on the surface, like almost everything else. Of course, we understand that intangible cultural heritage is fundamental and therefore we also ask Amendment 126 to Article 69 to introduce in curricular designs and materials as the teacher's training the official title of degree and master. But that's why – it's ending this time, there are two minutes left, I'm going to skip – an aspect that we consider fundamental is the importance of the dimension of nature in defining cultural good. We defend it, not only by changing the title of the bill and improving the definitions of taxonomics, but also by amending Amendments 113 and 114 to Article 59, where we speak of specific instruments for the protection of cultural landscapes and historical territories. We call for the European Landscape Convention of the Year 2000 to be taken into account – it is essential – and we have introduced the need for the protection of cultural landscapes to safeguard the socio-cultural practices of space's own ethno-anthropological and intangible heritage, forms of cultivation, traditional construction, sustainable agriculture, of course, taking into account the dialectic between the society of that environment and the landscape. You – I repeat – present us with an evacuated text, a text that is less guaranteed even than the previous one; a text to a bill, the previous one, 8/1995, which they do not critically talk about, and so we have the status of heritage. We can't say that the present estate situation is fine. That inventory – here we discussed in the last plenary – the Catalogue of Goods of Cultural Interest, is a hijacked catalogue, is a silent catalogue, because so it was allowed that 30% of the goods listed in it were demolished, were razed, and that remain forever in the silence of destruction. And we, with our amendments, with that negative to this resulting text, what we mean is that we want to save our historical, cultural and natural heritage from the predatory intentions of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning. I would like, first of all, to begin with thanks: first of all, thanks to the people who follow this debate, who are interested in what we are debating in this Parliament about this Cultural Heritage Act; thanks also to all the people and all the entities who have contributed to us, because I want to stress that a good part of the amendments that we are presenting takes up the feeling of cultural professionals, of people who are working on the heritage and who see the great effects that this legislation has and the problems that it will create in the future; and thirdly also a thanks both to the Juridical Services of the House and to all the members of the presentation, because I have to recognise that they have facilitated, at least, the work in placement, although at the same time I clearly also say that their results are clearly unsatisfactory from the point of view of the Nationalist Galego. And why are these results unsatisfactory? Because really the People's Party is once again making a deaf ear policy, of wanting to blind us to reality, by alone approving a new rule that actually worsens legislation on heritage; a new standard that really collects is a fossilized conception of what our heritage is and which, in addition, represents, therefore, a missed opportunity for our country. We understand that the problem of deprotection that has the heritage in Galicia is not located in the legislation, that we even have a legislation that, if it had developed in a clear way, with resources, with technical support from the Administration, has very good things. We did not deny the possibility of adapting legislation to new times, we did not deny the possibility of having a new heritage law that really understood that heritage is a social value, that it is a cultural value and that it is also a value, therefore, of cohesion and development in our country. Unfortunately, we have a rule that is a step backwards in the deprotection of heritage and that is not born of consensus. I want to highlight this for one thing, because the legislation that Galicia had was a unanimous legislation passed in this House. And what we regret is that the PP, without making a critical analysis of what are the problems of deprotection of heritage, makes a new law that clearly is a step back in relation to our country. So, since the Galician Nationalist Block, we not only announced our vote against this law because it deprotects and discredits legislation in the field of heritage protection, but we also made a commitment, and it is necessary that in the next legislation we should repeal this law and we should bring about a new law of cultural heritage that is really a suitable law at times, to a modern conception of heritage management and that it is in line with the sector, that it is financially endowed, because you continue in the policy-fiction saying that you can protect the wealth without resources, and once again we denounce that this law is accompanied by a memory that is a shame, because it tells us that with 400,000 euros will apply this law annually. How are we going to apply a new law that means a step forward in protecting the heritage if it has no resources? Let's explain it because we really think it's an unsolved puzzle. And also, of course, we believe it is important to bet on the recovery of our country's heritage as an element of self-esteem, as an element of cohesion, as an element of development, and we believe that you have a blindness there that is not only causing the destruction of our country's heritage, but limiting the possibilities of economic development. We also regret that most of the amendments we tabled to this law were not accepted. They were partial amendments which, of course, cannot change what is a structure and a conception which, from our point of view, is not that which at this time needs the heritage of our country, but, in any case, we want to emphasize that the most relevant thing that has been approved of us is precisely in Article 14: that this scandalous reference is deleted to the fact that the fact that it is included in the Census of Cultural Heritage does not mean its physical preservation. Obviously, you realize it's an aberration that had appeared that the fact that a good person was in the Census did not imply its preservation. Removing that reference to us is something positive, although, as we say, it does not have enough substance to this matter, so that we can modify or there is a substantial change to this law. It's a law that, as we have already said, undermines legislation on heritage, which actually nullifies the powers of the Galician Union. You're always in that policy of wanting to be irresponsible and, therefore, there's an important step back in the protection of heritage, which is going to be greater discretionality and legal insecurity and even confusion. We believe it's a mistake to eliminate inventories, because the fact that there were three categories in the area of Greek culture responds to the fact that the reality of our heritage is not homologable to another. We have a very rich heritage, very extensive. We're talking here about harrows, washing machines, pockets of souls, many elements of our traditional heritage that need protection, but without the rigidity of a good of cultural interest or a good that is catalogued, and you in that area, as we say, what they do is take a step back. We continue to denounce that social participation in heritage management is not incorporated. We believe that we should eliminate the privileges that the Catholic Church continues to have in this legislation, and therefore a regime specifically envisaged for the protection of that heritage, which, on the other hand, seeing what is happening in this country, it is clear that it has failed, because it does not obtain better conservation, recovery and public access to the assets that are currently held by the Catholic Church, and also because we believe that there are problems, even from a technical point of view, in the concepts that are collected in this law that will generate many problems. One of them is to date heritage or consideration of heritage from a historical point of view rather than from its social value and cultural value. And even that step that you take in this law is deprotecting the heritage that today was already protected, or even in terms of, for example, underwater heritage, they are legislating against what the underwater heritage protection conventions just referred to as referendums say. I mean, this is a law that creates legal insecurity, that technically has a lot of inaccuracies and that, as we say, it's not useful to solve our country's problems. We are very surprised that some of the amendments we tabled were not collected, I say, because many are technical issues that happen to us from people who are working in the heritage field and who warn of problems by the inaccurate definitions that are put into the law, and others have to do with even aspects that were already collected in the legislation and that years ago they seemed to be important to us. We are surprised that the People's Party, which is so filled with the words of the internationalization of culture, does not accept an amendment in which we speak of the external projection of the Greek cultural heritage, even when that amendment was already collected in the current legislation and therefore marked an element in which we had agreed years ago. Today the People's Party is against collecting the external projection of the Greek cultural heritage. We also do not understand why the rights and duties of citizenship are being curtailed in this law, and in particular, we seem to be relevant to us, and we believe it is important that in the legislation it is recognized the duty that all people should participate in the protection of their heritage and in the de facto denunciation of aggressions to their cultural heritage, because we also know that, without that citizenship alert network, with the technical means of Union, it is impossible to detect the cases of destruction of our heritage. So why is the People's Party against the collection of an article – which was also in the Law on the Vigilant Cultural Heritage – in which it is said that when people observe the danger of destruction or deterioration of an integral property of the cultural heritage, they must put it in the knowledge of the Administration or of justice itself? Why is it being eliminated as a citizen duty and therefore as a common element to the protection and detection of such cases? You should explain this to us. We would also like to be explained why they continue to maintain privileges for the Catholic Church, establishing a specific regime in which even the Catholic Church does not demand the same from the rest of the owners and owners of cultural interests, property in our country. It would be important if we were told the cause. We think there's also one, as I said, need to recover the category of inventory. We don't understand why you're betting on a buffer zone, when what you're doing is limiting the protection that already exists and complicating the protection that already existed with the protective contours of cultural interests. We understood that this law was an opportunity to agitate and debureautize declarations of cultural interests in our country. To declare a good of cultural interest, the average processing of reports is very long. Why don't we use this law to make that processing more agile? Because, indeed, we have a very rich heritage, we have figures that the logic would be that it would not take an eternity to process them from a bureaucratic point of view. So we said: to speed up the statement, that it is only necessary for a report to be able to declare a good of cultural interest and that, in case it is not stated, we do not have to wait three years to start that file again; therefore, let us facilitate protection and discredit administrative procedures. But here you keep all this, that's right, with a question you haven't been able to explain to us yet, and we're very concerned about access, about the conditions for public visit to declared assets of cultural interest. An additional provision appears here that seems to have been three years of moratorium so that visits to goods of cultural interest are not mandatory. You make an additional provision in which you give three years to communicate to the board of directors the conditions and calendars of your public visit. I mean, right now, if you don't communicate, you're three years old when cultural interests won't be able to be visible. We'd like to know why they put this additional provision when we're really not legislating ex novo; that is, this figure does not appear in a new way in this law, but that was already part of the legal body of the previous Cultural Heritage Act. Let us explain why this additional provision appears which, of course, as we say, is a step back, and even gives the impression that for three years in all cultural interests, if it is not communicated to the Board what the conditions and the calendar are, there should not be any public visits. It seems very serious to us, and we ask that our Amendment 175 be adopted today, which, in any case, sets a more reasonable deadline than a three-year deadline. We would also like them to correct, as I said, some inaccuracies or questions that are very surprising from the point of view of lack of rigor or how we were pointing out that there are problems, because we are cataloging and misdefining what is our own heritage. For example, as far as defensive architecture is concerned, you only refer to castles, defensive towers and urban surrounding walls. We asked ourselves: And a chest, the walls of a castle, aren't they a defensive structure? Because if you make these kind of definitions that clearly soon create technical problems, because they set out definitions that have nothing to do with reality. And I didn't want to finish -- we could comment on many more amendments -- without referring to two that seem important to us. The first is that here is a very important deprotection of our archaeological heritage. We're making a proposal here to create archaeologists; that is, spaces where we can accumulate, study, conserve, preserve and investigate our archaeological heritage. They know there's a very serious problem because of the lack of space and the lack of places specifically designed for this. We don't know why we don't want to move forward in this field. And so we're also surprised that we don't want to give a solution to a problem that has been created in recent months and that they have all those people who are working on the heritage; those who are working because they're doing excavations in the archaeological heritage, but also all those people who want to do an activity related to putting into value of the archaeological heritage and also job creation, the professionals who are working in the field of dissemination, display and conservation of our cultural heritage. We have a legislation today that creates aberrations such as that a person who has been responsible for an archaeological excavation cannot make a guided visit to teach this good to anyone, has to take a technician who has a tourist guide skills. It seems very good to us that the figure of the tourist guide is regulated and that this therefore has a professionalization in the Italian field. Now, what's a mistake is to consider that all the heritage is tourism and it's a mistake to consider that culture professionals can't continue to develop the work they're doing. We have an amendment, which is our Amendment No 157, which collects the proposal they moved...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u10	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u11	...to all groups the leaders and the people involved in the heritage and culture collective, who are moving this problem to us. I am very sorry that although we made offers for transactions there is no will on the part of the board of Galicia to preserve its work through this law. I think it's the main show of willlessness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u12	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u13	...to wake up, at least, nothing with the opposition. I'm sorry about all this because you're putting a stone and you're putting a trap on the development of a job that should be preserved by the Administration, because those people are doing what doesn't work for the Galician Union. They can still adjust, we hope they do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Mr Vázquez Blanco has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u15	Thank you, President. From the Socialist Group we have from the very first moment that this law was an unnecessary law. In this group we are convinced that the main reason for the presentation of this bill is no other than to give fulfillment to an electoral promise that the People's Party had, and, as the end of the legislation is now approaching, they present the candy and dish as if this had arranged one of the most important eves of their management in cultural matters, and that this government's management in the field of culture is plagued with great destinies, not to say, in addition, abandonments, and I am referring precisely to the heritage. From the Socialist Group and from the other opposition groups, we have repeatedly insisted on the abandonment to which Galicia's heritage is subjected. You make deaf ears to which about 30% of BIC's declared assets no longer exist or are found in a situation of serious risk. The Group of the People's Party and the Government of the United Nations always endorses the initiatives put forward since the opposition in this field, as they did in the previous plenary session. And at the same time they announce this bill as if it had solved the problem of abandoning our cultural assets. The response of the Galician Union to this problem has always been the same: resource exhaustion, lack of initiative and projects, disillusionment and a politically targeted selection of the few objects of attention in recent years; years in which many associations and collectives in defense of artistic heritage and even people committed to it have denounced this dramatic situation without having done anything from the German Government to put an end to it. By not adding that the management of the heritage and the actions of protection, conservation, restoration, rehabilitation and worth it constitute an important niche of employment for our country. Among these associations we can cite several, such as Daniel's Smile or even Hispania Nostra, which is dedicated to the defense of Spanish artistic heritage, and which has included in his sadly famous red list nothing less than 22 Greek monuments at this precise moment. But to balance your management there is no way to get rid of objective data, as this cannot deny it. And, curiously, the departure devoted to the protection of artistic, historical and cultural heritage increased from 22,168,000 euros to 12,834,000, reducing each year in proportion to the abandonment of cultural goods. And we see how in the budgets of the Union for this year – those that are supposed to be expansive – still decrease by 6% with respect to 2015 the game devoted to the protection and promotion of historical, artistic and cultural heritage. In addition to the scarce budget allocated to this matter, the Board practically only invests in the preservation of the heritage goods of the Catholic Church, clearly leaving other civic works of relevance. And it must also be said that the owners of BIC-declared goods are not being demanded, in many cases restored with public subsidies, which enable the days and hours of visit, as the legislation determines. That is why the Socialist Group maintains that the problem of heritage in Galicia is not a normative problem. We believe that the problem is in politics, and if this doesn't change, it will do nothing to pass a new law. Moreover, we maintain that the applicable law is a perfectly valid law, no consensus, an important fact, because this law is not. And what we need is for normative development to cover the deficiencies and that some of the issues that are going to fail, but of course what we have to do is that it was unnecessary to make a new law; and we maintain that the problem of heritage in Galicia is not a legal problem, but it is a political problem, and what we need is political will and commitment. And let me remind you once again: for this government culture is not a priority, and this is clear by the level of investment, because since 2009 the budget in culture has been reduced by 56%. But in addition, the percentage allocated to culture over the total in 2009 was 1.29% and now is 0.6% – less than half – and these are also objective data. As I said, this law was not necessary because the previous law was made with a broad consensus, which we think is very important for a law like the one that regulates our heritage. And, of course, despite the insistence on the participative nature itself that he intended to give to this law, it is obvious that he does not count on the participation and the search for consensus that has been achieved in the previous law; it is enough to point out as an example that the pre-project claim period was nothing less than in the past summer, from then on the worst possible date when he has an interest in involving the interested and affected groups; not to mention the summons he has made to the different opposition groups by presenting us with a power-point of the pre-project law when days before the Board of Directors had already approved the bill we are debating here today. From the Socialist Group we presented a series of amendments that they were looking for to correct different aspects of the law that concern us and that we also believe that they constitute a clear setback in the field of heritage. It seems to this group that this law opens serious questions as to the protection of heritage. And unfortunately, after the work done in the paper and after the debate in committee, we found that precisely the amendments that sought to correct the most serious aspects of this bill were not accepted. They only accepted those amendments that improved certain aspects of the law, but did not involve significant changes to the text, and especially those parts that mark heritage protection more significantly. Unfortunately, some amendments to Article 122 have been accepted, although not all, and at least some have been corrected, in order to expand the participation of wealth-related professionals, although we are waiting, as the BNG spokesman said, for a final transaction. Although we regret, in addition, that many of the amendments tabled by our group have fallen into a broken bag, because at least they would serve to avoid many of the evases that we understand has this bill and that they have to do with areas of deprotection for our heritage. As for the relationship with the Catholic Church, we have already stated that, in our view, a privileged relationship is established by maintaining a joint commission between the Council of Galicia and the Catholic Church in article 6, for which we present an amendment of suppression, since we believe this relationship of privilege to be unjustified, which also leaves for subsequent regulation of its functions. In addition, article 7 of the law establishes which are the advisory bodies in the field of cultural heritage, and it already includes the Catholic Church among others, so we do not agree with this privilege, since the actions in the properties of the Church are reported through a special commission while the rest of the people and administrations share the same organ. And another one of the evidences that we seem to be hard to understand in this bill is participation, because this law, in our opinion, also reduces participation in society. And in particular, the advisory and advisory bodies collected in article 7 with regard to the current law are reduced, assuming a fall in this sense in managing the heritage. That is why we introduced amendments that corrected this setback and, although the references to the recovery of the Technical Committee on Archaeology and Ethnography were accepted, we do not understand why we did not recover from the Museums too, as it was already collected in the current law, nor do we understand why we did not accept the amendments concerning the recovery of the Galician Culture Council, which this bill excludes as a consultative body; nor did they accept the recovery of the other real academies of Galicia linked to the Heritage Law and which are contained in the applicable law. One of the latest news announced by the council was to recast into a single law the existing legislation on the Ways of Santiago, which means simplification and staffing of it, something that this group seems to be positive. Here, too, we have to point out that, although one of the only two amendments of the People's Party to this law is the one that calls for the inclusion of the Portuguese Way along the coast – with which we agree – we must regret that the amendment concerning the state of abandonment and the failure to signal the Winter Way was not accepted, in which a concrete commitment was requested in an additional willingness to do so in six months, something that they have made deaf ears once again. And I take the opportunity to greet the members of the Association Friends of the Way of Santiago by Valdeorras, who are in the Chamber and who, unfortunately, find themselves in the lack of commitment by the Board to something so necessary and also as simple as to signal this path and take measures that put an end to the state of abandonment in which they are found; one shows more of the work that many people develop in an unselfish manner and which often eases the work of the Government of the Union to ensure the preservation of their heritage. If we have to celebrate that it seems that we can finally reach an agreement on an amendment tabled by the Socialist Group to include recognition as the Road of the Road of Translation, the Route of the Arousal Sea and the Ulla River, which, incomprehensiblely, was removed from the bill, when it was in the preliminary draft and also in the present law, as well as in the Plan Director of the Galician Board on the Ways of Santiago last year. Thanks to the pressure of the councils involved, I think we can get some support, because leaving this path out means something as surrealistic as not to grant Compostolá to the Apostle James himself. One of the main news presented by this bill is determined by legal authorization so that municipalities can authorize interventions in certain catalogued goods. It is important to note that it refers only to the goods that are included in the Catalog of Heritage, and that this group, which believes in municipalism as the way of management closest to the citizen, seems good to you that progress is being made in the involvement and autonomy of the municipalities to develop their policies, as is now the case in the historical assemblies with the approved special plans, in which they are already competent. However, we need to be critical of this paragraph in the sense that reality makes it very difficult to meet the objectives that mark this bill on this subject, since, as it is well known, most of the municipalities do not have enough resources or economic or human resources to be able to cope with these new functions and competences which since June are intended to give them, something which is curious coming from the People's Party, which, after this legislation, after the rules of Montoro, has reduced the local autonomy of the municipalities, which I have assumed the greatest backwardness of municipalism since democracy. So in this matter announced by law, it seems to us insufficient, because in order to make this effective, first of all, it is necessary to believe in local autonomy, which inevitably has to be accompanied by financial and human resources. The Board must allow technicians to be incorporated into the local administration, thus facilitating the management of this law to the municipalities. To this end it is necessary that, in addition to announcing this novelty, the Council of Galicia should assist the municipalities in hiring heritage management technicians and help financially, in order to develop this competition, as pointed out in Article 3 of this project, if not, everything remains in good intentions without any effectiveness or practical sense. Another of the main novelties that this bill establishes is the change in the categories of cultural heritage goods, from three to two categories. So the inventory disappears, leaving only the goods catalogued and the goods of cultural interest. And for this, the so-called Census of Cultural Heritage was created, defined not as a category of goods but as an instrument of disclosure of those goods that were not declared culturally or catalogued. And here's one of the points where the council clearly contradicted what it so much begged during the announcement of this bill, when it stated that this law did not entail any setbacks in the protection of Galician cultural heritage, because clearly this bill states that the goods included in the Census do not necessarily have to be physically preserved, when there is a cause of public interest. And even more so when it is claimed that the inclusion of a property in the Census will not determine the need for prior administrative authorization for interventions on the said good. For the Socialist Group this means an unfortunate step, with which we cannot agree at all, and it makes it clear that this bill opens a path to the deprotection of certain property assets, setting empty so that with discretion one can act on his own assets. The Socialist Group does not agree that property may be destroyed under any concept and that is why we are presenting amendments that substantially change this aspect and that we are concerned that they are not accepted. We propose that when there are causes of relevant public and social interest that make their conservation on-site incompatible, alternatives are established, such as the transfer of certain goods or their prior documentation, in the case of archaeological heritage, but legal insecurity, and even the door open to the disappearance of certain goods, we find it extremely worrying in a heritage law. And we also find it essential that the inclusion of a good in the Census of Cultural Heritage determine a protection based on the responsibility of the municipalities and the Council of Culture, and that you have to authorize any intervention affecting it. Another amendment that you didn't want to accept and that we can only regret. And in this sense, we've done fincapé in the protection of the goods included in the Census, also asking for its inclusion in article 35, which speaks of the protection of cultural heritage in urban planning. In view of their refusal to accept our proposals, we must state that they are categorically opening themselves up to the deprotection of certain cultural and heritage goods. And it should also be noted that this bill leaves open some issues that affect the protection of the heritage, because it is not well known what happens with the goods that are not included in the Census, for example, how it can be a mill, an alvarice, in the ethnographic field, or an archaeological deposit, which it is not known to be, by its very character, hidden, buried and hence unprotected. How are protection and conservation mechanisms established if the fact of being or not at the Census has no administrative and legal implications? These are issues that we believe were fundamental to solving for the effective protection of our heritage. Nor can we agree at all with the chronological criteria and dates that establish the law in several articles, such as the requirements for identifying certain elements as members of the protected heritage; a criterion that we cannot share because we believe that it can leave out of the protection multiple elements that must be part of our country's cultural heritage. And in this regard we also present several amendments, which were also rejected, which sought to establish other criteria other than chronological ones and which affected the importance and relevance of certain goods by matters more diverse than chronological ones. So, for all this, the Socialist Group cannot support this bill, because we consider, first, that it is unnecessary and, secondly, because in our view it constitutes a step backwards in the protection of our heritage. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Mr Baamnde Díaz has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Greetings to your lordships; greeting also to all the people and representatives of associations who follow this debate. A debate on a heritage law which, as has already been said here, brings together the previous legislation on this subject: the 1995 Law of the Ways of Santiago, 1996 and also the 1992 Act of Artistic Staffing. Faced with the criticisms of the parliamentary opposition groups, from the People's Party, we defend the text of the paper, we defend the bill with energy and with consistency, because we understand, firstly, that it is a good law, a law that gives rise to the demands of wealth at the moment and a law that rests on three fundamental aspirations: simplification at three levels, at the legislative level, at the administrative level and at the level of organization; the incorporation of the best regulations and laws established both in the general legal framework and in the comparative right; and also the news of the right of international conventions. Even so, it is also intended to incorporate the planning tool to speed up management, give people greater security and the heritage and simplify administrative procedures. We also believe that, in view of what has been stated here, it is an absolutely necessary law. And it is a necessary law because the law must always be an expression of the social reality of the moment it must be applied, and in this sense it is true that the Law of 1995 deserves a positive assessment, but it is also true that the experience achieved in its application has allowed us to express itself in that application and in those circumstances of processing such as a great bureaucracy or slowness of processing or prejudice to citizenship, and many of these cases have been made manifest by the professionals and technicians of the Council of Culture, who have actively participated in the elaboration of the project and to whom I believe it should also be grateful for its work, as we have also extended this thanks to all those persons and associations to whom Mrs. Pontón referred to in her speech. But this new legislation is also necessary to bring it into line with the regulatory framework, the general framework, the changing international legislation on the subject, and also because it is obvious that there was a clear social demand for this legislative amendment, as the opinions expressed even in this Parliamentary House by numerous associations, entities and persons related to heritage and also the massive participation of social representation in the process of public claiming this Heritage Act. Obviously, the guiding principles of the law, its structure, have already been discussed in the debate of the whole, and the content, in the debate of the motion; therefore, allow me now to refer to the fundamental aspects of the law and to cause greater controversy in relation to the views expressed by the groups of the parliamentary opposition. First of all, we must stress that the law incorporates the new trends in the concept of heritage. Both in the exhibition of motives and in the articulate include the criterion of cultural identity of the Greek people, social cohesion and sustainable development. It develops the law the value of heritage in emotional, historical and territorial aspects and incorporates the evolutionary concept of heritage, its integrative character and the special typologies recognized internationally, specifically the international heritage. It collects the law the social concept of property, but a clarification to this expression: the law does not put the heritage under the market economy. The reference to the market economy is considered necessary to bring the constitutional requirements relating to that market economy into line with the law itself, and very especially to underline the increase in value that the safeguard of the heritage implies for economic operators, taking advantage of the value that has also the heritage, which also has the culture in general, as an element of economic and social dynamisation and also as a creator of wealth. Secondly, and as I said before, one of the objectives of the law is the establishment of instruments necessary to give more security to property and citizenship, as well as to speed up management. In particular, first of all, in order to manage assets, a reduction in the categories or types of assets is established, going from the three types before two, i.e. the BICs, to the catalogued goods. I make the clarification – so I will say – that, within this concept of catalogued goods, all those goods that were included at the entry into force of the heritage were included in the General Inventory of the Cultural Heritage of Galicia, except those that are declared BIC. Secondly, the catalogues ope legis, the catalogues individually and also those determined individually in the urban catalogues. As a result of this reduction, the design of the planning instrument is regulated, specifically the Galician Cultural Interest Goods Register and the Galician Cultural Heritage Catalogue. But especially it has to be mentioned that one of the important novelties of the law is the creation of the figure of the Census of Cultural Goods; a census that includes all those goods of the Greek cultural heritage in which it is appreciated that can compete with a cultural value but which is not yet declared or catalogued. Well, on this issue, I want to make reference to the fact that, by the parliamentary opposition, first of all, and with regard to the reduction of categories, criticism is made by claiming a deprotection and delagging of the heritage, precisely by the suppression of the Inventory. The rest of our respect must be expressed in our inconsistencies with that statement because it does not correspond to reality; firstly, because the Inventory does not disappear, the goods that have the consideration of BIC remain such that, and the rest of the goods become part of the Catalogue with the same level of protection. And secondly, the reduction of categories of goods does not imply any deprotection, but, quite the contrary, what it represents is simplicity and clarification. As far as the Census is concerned, there are also allegations, in the sense that it involves deprotection on the basis of two considerations: one, on the physical conservation of property, and another on the non-relationship, on the need for prior administrative authorization for interventions. I mean, we don't share this criterion either. It is not shared because Census is not a new category of goods, it is configured as an instrument of dissemination and promotion of heritage. Census is an additional tool for safeguarding the heritage, and its essential function is to recognize the existence of goods that have no protection, but that they may have consideration of heritage assets. But there is no de-protection, and there is no de-protection, first of all, because all those goods that must necessarily be preserved or those that are in danger or risk of disappearance must necessarily be declared or catalogued, and the other goods enjoy the protection provided for in Article 100 or in the additional first tenth provision. In this sense, I would like to stress that the Heritage Act which is subject to approval in no way represents a level of protection lower than the 1995 Act, on the contrary, increases this protection, moving forward in the identification of goods, in the classification of intervention typologies, establishing three levels of protection – integral protection, structural protection and environmental protection – and also defining the types of intervention. And even so, from the point of view of sustainable protection, this level of protection is enhanced by the establishment of protective contours and, in particular, of the buffer zone, which is another of the novelties that collects the law and does not generate deprotection, but exactly the opposite, is to strengthen that protection and ensure the display of the goods. It is not mandatory because it is not possible, and only in cases where it is expressed in a certain way. In any case, it meets international requirements in relation to the subject matter. Another important point of the law and also object of discussion is the fact that there is an administrative reorganization based on the increase in the participation and involvement of local administrations, municipalities. That's why legal empowerment is introduced as one of the main novelties so that municipalities can authorize interventions in certain cases and in certain types of goods, ensuring greater administrative agility and closer proximity to citizenship. He is pleased that this may involve a problem of competence and an honorable burden on the municipalities, if it is not accompanied by economic transfers. In this sense, we do not share that statement either, because we have to say, first of all, that there is no question of the competences of the Council of Galicia, because we are not talking about a problem of transfers, but about a problem and a question of collaboration. The project derives, not from functions and competences towards the municipalities, but from participation in procedures and processing, thus ensuring the homogeneity of criteria and administrative tools. Nor does it suppose an honorable burden for the municipalities, because the derivation of functions is not carried out ope lei for all the municipalities of Galicia. The subscription to this criterion of legal authorization, first of all, is voluntary, but secondly, it is guaranteed, because the municipalities that want to do so must meet special requirements, which are those that are determined in the additional fourth provision of the bill, and so even Junta also reserves in certain cases the granting of these authorizations and interventions in certain types of goods. Other positive aspects in relation to the law – which I quickly enumerate – are the new heritage typologies, intangible, industrial, underwater and scientific heritage. And by the way, Mr Ron, Article 9 incorporates definition and criteria of agreements for the safeguarding of UNESCO's intangible cultural heritage. Santiago's Paths are also regulated, which have been referred to here. The novelties in this project basically refer to aspects such as the BIC declaration of declared human heritage paths. The rest of the main routes are catalogued goods, the possibility of BIC's declaration at the request of the municipalities or the recognition of the Winter Road – and in this regard I want to underline the transcendence of that recognition. As to the criticism by the Socialist Parliamentary Group regarding delimitation, signaling or cleaning, it must be pointed out that logically delimitation and signaling must respond to the general criteria that apply to other paths, and regarding cleaning, ultimately, it is a particular issue that can be debated and that in some cases may be better or worse, but any provision must also be met in accordance with the general criteria. And I also want to underline – I was referring to Mr Vázquez – the transaction agreement to incorporate the Ways of Santiago the Route of Translation, by the Arousa Sea and the Ulla River, which leads not to a transitional provision, but to the additional provision tenth, and thus gives satisfaction to the demands made by an important part of people affected by that route. As for the sanctioning regime, I mean it's established under the highest security criterion, with more sanctionable conduct, but also with greater legal guarantees as well as avoiding defence. With regard to resources, it must be said that the law has sufficient financial resources for its implementation, and, in any case, regular budget allocation for the defence and conservation of property is not a matter of specific regulation in the law. With regard to the explanation of other amendments posed by opposition groups, we will give it in the second round. And it has to be said that we will ultimately support the text of the presentation, because it gives rise to a new legislative framework that responds to the current problems of heritage, but also to a need from a theoretical and conceptual point of view. From that point of view, we believe that we have advanced, because we protect a greater number of elements than in previous legislation, and establish a higher level of security for all operators, both with the formula of the two years of adaptation of special protection plans and with the publication of the Cultural Census of Heritage. And it's especially important to underline that you make sure...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u19	...the dissemination of the cultural importance of the heritage through the timely public campaigns, and, Mrs. Martínez, also through the implementation of the knowledge of the heritage in the ESO itself. And at the same time, within the legal project, conceptual definitions are improved and uncertainty is avoided. Finally, I want to say that we are convinced that this law, which today is subject to debate and which is likely to be approved, constitutes a fundamental axis of all conservation, awareness-raising, heritage-relevant policy, with a regulation more adapted to current requirements and international requirements and to the experience accumulated in these years. That's why we're going to express our support for the text of the presentation. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u20	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. The role of the parliamentary groups in defining the amendments maintained by the other groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u21	Thank you, President. We shall vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the opposition, because in many of them we agree, and in others, which we do not present, we agree with the text. I think they improve the text presented in the project. We agree, for example, that all the definitions that exist are very much improved; even some that should not be, like cultural heritage, what is intangible heritage or what is bibliographical heritage. We also agreed to eliminate the privileges of the Catholic Church in relation to heritage and to clarify what is the heritage of the Catholic Church; hence to normalize relations with a more heritage of the Greeks and the Greeks. We also agreed in relation to advisory and advisory bodies, both in those advisory and advisory bodies, as well as in the Technical Committee of Museums, the real academies or universities. We all agree, as well as in the functions of those consulting bodies and advisory bodies, because they are not given functions throughout the law. You talk about them, but then when you think about the destruction of a property that is included in the Census, about the transfer of goods, about changes in goods or works to act on heritage, you don't take into account, there's no single reference to these advisory and advisory bodies. We also agree that as much as the People's Party insists that there is a commitment to transmit Galician cultural heritage in ESO, I do not look at it either in the ESO or in primary or anywhere else; in fact, they refuse to collect in this law that commitment of heritage of Galician material and intangible cultural heritage, as well as they refuse to use Galician Radio-Television precisely to promote that heritage. They don't take into account instruments that are already there and that you just despise and therefore show very little interest in really giving value to that heritage. We also agree with the amendments that seek to protect the cultural heritage from the destruction of the Census, because if the Census is born to protect, of course, what it does is not protect or fulfill that function. It cannot be put into a law that can be destroyed without authorization of property goods collected in the Census. That's incomprehensible under any prism, that's an attack on the Greek cultural heritage that you place in the law. That's why they're unable to reach any agreement. We also agreed on the underwater heritage. There's no protection from this heritage, a cataloguing of the heritage. It's rather an activity seen as a tourist approach to increasing diving tourism in relation to access to boats' fish. Also in the protection of cultural landscapes, which are not collected or protected in any special way, as well as in something as important as not giving value to it and eliminating the need for citizen collaboration in the protection of the heritage and the obligation of the Administration to act as soon as they receive a citizen complaint, since it is not only because it is due to that obligation of complaint but because when something is protected and told to the citizenry: this protection is up to us all, and we are all responsible for this being maintained; it is giving value to the good and it is involving its own population in the protection of its culture and heritage, something that does not seem to interest the People's Party. We also agreed in all the amendments to the administrative silence in which the property is deprotected, in the right of participation and information of the citizenry, in the right to visit the assets of the citizenry and in the need to establish a protocol for collaboration with the municipalities for the protection of the heritage. We do not oppose the fact that the municipalities, of course, participate, we are in favour of their participation in the protection of their heritage, but we believe that this requires a protocol of collaboration, of reaching out to the media, from the Galician Union, because, of course, most of the municipalities in our country are municipalities that do not have enough entities to have a commission of heritage with trained technicians. So there would be that need for protocols. –It's over, it's over. We also agree that this law comes to deprotect the heritage and rights of citizenship while protecting the privileges of the Catholic Church; a law that did not seek consensus, because of some 700 amendments that were more or less presented by the opposition, I believe that no more than 30 have been accepted or traded. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u23	From AGE we will support the amendments tabled by the opposition groups because we agree on the bulk and, if we were to govern, we would certainly agree on the nuances, but with you we certainly do not agree. It's impossible to match your rhetoric of emptyness because even in the text itself they keep a certain rhetoric, ampulsive and grandiose in the exhibition that then in the part of the articulate, which is what matters, because it disappears completely, because that's the game of the word you handle. You've spoken of the creator of wealth, they always use that mantra. But when the necropolis of Coses appears, what was the wealth? was the cultural wealth that was discovered or was more important that supposed economic wealth that made the bus pass there? Well, it's clear that our perspective of wealth doesn't match. For us cultural heritage is, above all, cultural wealth; wealth, because it shows the silent memory of a people, their identity, what we are and what we have been and what we need to study to be able to preserve; to know to be able to preserve. If it crawls under the asphalt, for it is clear that it is not preserved, and therefore if it shows that market wealth, but that it destroys the wealth of cultural heritage. And that's what this bill offers. We can remember, for example, the chest of Noia, which was on the other side of the shore. What happened to him? He was disassembled piece by piece, and you don't know very well how but a piar went up. Bye-bye! Good-bye, guys! You're uprooting everything, but they come here and say they create wealth. That's why we say we can't share a bill that is mer-can-ti-li-ta, and so say because the good of cultural interest is not an asset of commercial tourist interest, which is what it becomes with the People's Party absolutely everything, everything!, we've already said it, and even you say it, they make cold mineral-medicine waters 17 degrees become thermals by magic art, by tourist claim, and with a very large poster –600,000 euros paid to a company, which surely has been profited, scattered across the entire Greek map – lying, because they're lies, but it doesn't matter. You with this bill what you're going to continue to do is lie, conceal your real intentions, because with budgets presented to us year after year from 2012 until now it's impossible for you to pay attention to your responsibility, which is to guarantee the protection of cultural assets and preserve them, cooperating with other administrations, but not leaving them the responsibility, as it is passed with the deputies or with the municipalities. The responsibility is yours, especially with the goods that are the most sovereign and that are there at the expense of our identity, of our history as a Greek people. You run away from your responsibility. That's why we agree with the amendments that have been tabled since the opposition in that sense, and that's why we also agree that you make everything more complex from a bureaucratic point of view. We don't agree with you either, and if we agree with each other on the protection measures you're designing for the goods. They create confusion: buffer zones, protection zones... they define themselves and be clear, powerful. And that's why, for that condensation, what it can't be is that the sanctioning device is above Livian. There are things that deserve to be classified as very serious. And that's why we present in that sense a number of amendments, so that they are classified as very serious, so that the one who makes a heritage storm is not saved. Legal guarantees. You don't guarantee anything, you're the kings of legal insecurity. We insist, also since the opposition, we have made several amendments to rescue the participation and role of citizenship in local communities. You love us, but you love us for their own good, and then they pass absolutely from them; they love us for the gallery photos, for that, yes, that they take photos and don't hesitate to face them, but they happen at the time of truth, which is to work elbowed with elbows and keep them in mind in making decisions. You have to keep them in mind, because it's how participatory work is to be done, from the bottom up, and not with a paternalist and elite vision that tries to impose. And then, of course, we accept because if we don't, we're out of play. That's their policy of participation: here you have, and if you don't accept, you stay out of play, there's no money. So you're absolutely telling the whole associative tissue in Galicia and so they decide to participate, in the end, in what is a tax farce. You're the way they're ruling: imposing and practicing the farce as a political system. So from that point of view, we reaffirm ourselves: we will support the amendments to the opposition and we will say no to this bill.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. From the BNG we will support all the initiatives that remain alive, both from the Joint Group and the Group of the AGE and the Socialist Group, because even though we can always have nuances, there is a common fund on what we are defending. And if I'd like to do a couple of killings to the thread of the spokesperson of the People's Group. You justified this law in which there was a citizen demand. No, you should be realistic: there was, in any case, a Government initiative, a People's Party initiative. It is not an initiative that is born of society by a demand from the cultural sector, but, in any case, it is something that the People's Party decides; legitimate, but it does not justify it in the field where it is not. Second question. You justified the great support and interest of this law in the large number of allegations. I believe that rather the reading of the important number of allegations is of the judgements so serious that it has this law and the social concern that exists about the meaning of it. And I'm going to read you an argument; I imagine you'd read it too and you'll also worry about what you say. It's an allegation from the Institute of Heritage Sciences, the CSIC, which, as you know, is based in Santiago de Compostela and specialized in research of cultural heritage. The conclusion nothing but his claim says: "The enactment of a new law is a unique opportunity to coax the development of a sector very affected by the economic crisis. Several scientific studies have demonstrated the ability of legal instruments to induce innovation, the consolidation of an economic sector and the empowerment of entrepreneurship. However, the measures set out in the Preview of the Law of Cultural Heritage seem not to walk in that direction but to reflect a dangerous trend, by disbursing the responsibilities of the self-government for a supposed citizen participation. In a geopolitical and cultural context like Galicia's, the development of cultural industries and other heritage-related activities is undoubtedly an opportunity to generate development frameworks that are alternative to traditional ones that can overcome the crisis." In the allegations that this institute is making, they are warning you of the great cases that it has this law and they are pointing to a problem I was referring to in the last part of my intervention, which is that you are hampering the activity and development of many professionals in the field of culture right now. That is, instead of helping to preserve heritage, generate employment and develop activity, they're doing just the opposite. And instead of wanting to give you a solution in this law, they're putting their heads in the hole, just like the ostrich does, and collaborating with a policy that goes against the general interest. We have told them on many occasions that laws need budgeting, that heritage budgets are insufficient, that it is not to be received that this year 2016, when they pass this law, they lower what is devoted to the conservation of heritage. And much less is this shameful economic memory that accompanies the law, in which we are told that in 2016 the development of the law will be EUR 370,000, which in 2017 will be 400,000 and in 2018, 320,000. How are they going to develop a law with these kinds of figures that are absolutely ridiculous and that they don't change anything in such negative trends that our heritage has? We also told them how you are not increasing or improving any of the protection of heritage; even from a legal point of view this will create a lot of problems. We've already told you, they're creating two records of cultural goods: one, that's the catalogued goods, and another, that's the cultural goods. Then they create a third, which is a census, which they don't give any kind of legal protection category, and they don't tell us what the relationship between all these instruments is. They're deprotecting wealth at the time they delete inventories, because the fact that there were inventories was a way of having a protection figure that does not exist in state legislation, because it was understood that the Greek heritage needed that kind of figure. And, I've told you before, there's a kind of heritage property that has to have a protection and a lower requirement than that of a BIC or a well-categorized one, and what you're doing, therefore, is protecting a lot of the heritage. Of course, they have no will or will to listen to or to attend to the amendments mostly made by this group or those of the professionals. I regret that the People's Party also always comes to debates and doesn't tell us any reason or any argument why amendments are not accepted. And I would ask them to make a correction in relation to Amendment No. 157 and to collect that "the Galician Union will promote the assistance and participation of technicians specialized in the dissemination of Galician cultural heritage assets." It's the least you can ask to safeguard professional activity and not make it difficult for those who are not doing the work that Galician Union does. I really ask them to reconsider because many people in Galicia are making it difficult. It is not understood that a government considers that heritage is not an activity where people can work and much less put on the ground the effort that many people have made to contribute to the value of heritage. I'm sorry those are his conceptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Vázquez Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u27	Thank you, President. After listening to the People's Party, we can see once again that we live in different realities, although it's already difficult to keep the story they build for a longer time. Of course, in cultural matters, this government is not meant to breast-feed, and neither can you be proud in the area of heritage protection, since, as I said before, they have reduced by 46% the budget allocated to this game. And, of course, the result is there. As much as they want to keep denying reality the outcome of their policy has the consequences we're seeing. Developing a new heritage law will not change the worrying situation in which much of our country's cultural heritage is found. You continue to confuse the path needed to put an end to this situation. The problem is not going to be solved without politics, it's not the law that's going to fix Galician heritage problem, and much less this law that you want to pass. In order to address this problem, it is sufficient to enforce legislation, which also provides more legal certainty than this bill that we are discussing. The path is in the development of policy, the provision of resources, the involvement, the impulse of initiatives such as those that were rejected in the previous plenary session, and also, why not, in a little sensitivity. It's not the whim of opposition groups to oppose everything this government proposes, we do it when things don't work out, and in this case, it's obvious that they're not doing the right way, and the problem is that when we talk about cultural goods, the consequences are irreversible. It is no coincidence that opposition groups coincide in highlighting those aspects of the law that we do not agree with. Although with different shades, as you can see, there is generally a great coincidence in the aspects that cause our disagreement, so we will support the amendments tabled by the entire opposition. And I say that, at least, I should have you reflect on the fact that among the different political forces, in a law as important as that of heritage, we agree in the aspects that, in our understanding, suppose a retreat that can cause irreparable consequences. That is why since the Socialist Group we have tabled amendments that sought to change those aspects that we believe open legal uncertainties in the protection of heritage and which, unfortunately, have not been accepted by the majority group of this House, we regret that at least many of our amendments would have served to achieve greater protection of many heritage goods, which, with the final text, does not happen in cases such as goods, whether included or not, in the Census, by setting an example. We welcome the inclusion of the recognition of the Portuguese Way by the coast, as well as finally acceptance in extremes of the recognition of the Route by the Arousa Sea and the Ulla River, which the People's Party has refused to accept until the last moment. Only because of the pressure and insistence of the Socialist Group, which we did not give our arm to twist during the presentation and commission process, and the pressure of the mayors and mayors involved, did we manage to recognize this route as a road, after the PP had voted against even last week in the commission. Even though we have to regret the fear of the People's Party that we do not recognize it in article 73, which is where it should be, and that they finally strive to keep it as an additional provision. We don't understand why not give the arm to twist, even if we approve this transaction for the sake of the Way, but it's a half-satisfaction. As I pointed out earlier too, we regret that the references to the Winter Road were not accepted, which is in a precarious state of signaling and conservation, without offering any alternative. And I also use it to greet the friends of the Monforte Winter Road, who are also in the Chamber and who had no knowledge of their presence before, from which Mr. Docasar warned me. We also have to regret that I did not rectify things that this group and all the others seem to us to put many cultural assets at risk of protection. We think it's a mistake to open up the possibility that some property may not be conserved, as is the case in article 14. Goods bring knowledge, they must be documented or, in the worst case, transferred, but a law that opens the way to which they can be destroyed, as is said in this bill, seems unacceptable to us. And, Mr. Baamonde, it does offer deprotection, since it recognizes its existence, and does not guarantee protection, since it states that the inclusion of a good in the Census does not determine the need for prior administrative authorization for intervention on the said good. Just as it seems essential to us that the inclusion of a good in the Census of Cultural Heritage determines a protection based on the responsibility of the municipalities and the Council of Culture, which has to authorize any intervention that affects them, which does not happen. This was the star proposal of this bill, or so announced by the counsellor, and, as we see, a step in an absolutely wrong direction and opens up a legal insecurity that we cannot share. So, finally, from the Socialist Group we cannot agree with this bill, first, because it is unnecessary; second, because it is no better than the current law; third, because it does not solve the problem and the situation in which much of our cultural heritage is found; fourth, because it opens up ways towards the deprotection of many of the heritage goods and therefore entails a reversal in this sense, in addition to the legal insecurity it poses; and fifth, because it breaks with consensus that it had the current Heritage Law. So we cannot support this bill because we believe it offers greater deprotection than the current law, and, since it is such an important law, they should take into account that the current law counts with a consensus that it does not have, so it seems to us to be a mistake that is approved. This isn't a minor fact, we're talking about a very important law, so, for the sake of the Greek heritage, don't support this bill. From the Socialist Group if we hold them to work to defend and protect their heritage with politics, with normative development and with will. But if they pass this bill today, they will be taking a step back and breaking with the existing legislative consensus so far. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, Mr Ron, to clarify that the criteria for defending wealth and the element of creating wealth are perfectly valid elements. We agree that heritage must be protected; we also agree that road building cannot be avoided and that progress cannot be avoided. What we have to do is set out these concepts from the point of view of collaboration, compensation, balance and not confrontation. That's what we defend ourselves. Well, Your Honor, as far as amendments to the opposition groups are concerned – Mrs. Pontón, I in the presentation made the references I could logically make to these amendments; it is impossible to cover them all – I want to point out, of course, that we support those incorporated into the text of the presentation, as well as the transactions reached, and also the transaction reached in relation to the Route of Translation, which improves the regulation of the Winter Way. I also use it to greet specifically my countrymen of Lugo from the Santiago de Monforte Road Association, to whom I thank, as well as other organizations, the work done in connection with the recognition and preservation of the Ways. The rest of the amendments, logically, we have to reject them. I very much allow myself to underline, for example, those which refer to participation, that participation is indeed collected both in the general criteria of the law and in all proceedings along it. The visit is specifically collected in Article 48; accessibility, No. 49 and Article 90; and it is also collected through the development of dissemination tools by means of technology. As for the allegations of deprotection, I will insist that the level of protection set out in the 1995 Act is maintained, and you cannot, in any way, set an example of a good that is more unprotected by the current regulation than by the previous one. [[Applause]] We regret, Mrs Pontón, that we cannot reach agreement on the amendment concerning technical expertise in disclosure, despite the attempts made and despite the fact that we fully recognize the situation of these professionals, first of all, because it is estimated that the definition should be carried out on a regular basis and not by law; secondly, because we would also need a more specific determination as to which concepts such as communication, design or execution of educational proposals are considered to be unqualified by themselves. With regard to the date, Mr Vázquez, it must be pointed out that it is opted for this criterion because it is estimated to be more appropriate and more secure than that of reference to a period of time, for example a hundred years, which would force constantly modifying references. And on the other hand, there is no deprotection because elements can be incorporated regardless of the date on which the value is believed. Regarding silence, I would like to stress that it is not the general criterion of law; the general criterion is the express resolution, and silence is set alternatively as a guarantee of rights. As far as the Church is concerned, I will stress that the joint commission is maintained by the essence of the agreement, and we must also take into account the social reality that the Church is the holder of a large part of the cultural heritage. As for the sanctioning procedure, I would like to insist, Mr Ron, that we introduce more punishable conduct, but also a more secure sanctioning procedure, which ensures better the defence of citizenship. Reference is made to the consensus mentioned here. It is true that the 1995 Law was adopted unanimously, but it is also true that it was a law again and that it responded to a different political time. Opposition groups have agreed to reject this bill, but it gives the impression by the protest that it is more a political position match than a critique based on technical values or the content of the law. This is evidence of two basic data: firstly, many of the amendments to the law are ideological in nature, and Mr. Ron has noted them very specifically, and most of the criticisms made must be acknowledged that they are not really critical of the Heritage Law, of the Heritage Bill, but that they are actually critical of the cultural action of the Galician Union, which, logically, are concepts that must be put in different spheres. Unless the presentation of three amendments to the whole and the presentation of 600 or more than 600 amendments to the articulate, it indicates that more than a desire for consensus strikes opposition groups with an intention to develop a law with criteria more peculiar to each of them than a general law. In spite of this, we are faced with a law debated with the sectors involved through the numerous conversations held with representatives of institutions such as the Fegamp, the Council of Culture, the Academy of Fine Arts, universities, the Colleges of Architects or the Prosecutor's Office, with a very broad participation of citizenship. Obviously, participation, Mrs. Pontón, through allegations is to express the criticisms of the law and to improve it, but in any case, it manifests social participation and therefore concern, and almost none of these allegations questioned the drafting of a new bill. Of these 470 claims, by the way, more than 50% have been admitted. And it's also a law in which in the presentation process – I have to manifest my...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u31	...thank you to all the rapporteurs – 66 amendments were accepted from the political groups and other 16 were negotiated. I end by stressing that we have expressed the approval of the bill, a project that has more technical than ideological character, and therefore, as I said when we discussed the whole process, ended with that quote by Voltaire: "Aless ideology, less discussion; less discussion, less misfortunes." Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u32	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde. Debates and votes by the Ditame, drawn up by the Committee on Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law on the social economy of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u33	Amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group, to the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, to the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia and to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia remain for the plenary. The president of Commission 5th, Ms Marta Rodríguez-Vispo, has the floor for the presentation of the commission's dictation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to the people who accompany us today in this Chamber. As chairman of the 5th Committee on Health, Social Policy and Employment, I am presenting to this plenary the draft law of the social economy of Galicia, which was entered into the Parliamentary Register on 20 January 2016. The Bureau of Parliament, at its meeting on 25 January, issued its publication in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia and the opening of the deadline for the submission of amendments, which ended on 12 February for amendments to the whole and 1 March for those of the articulated. Even so, at the February 4th meeting, heard the Speaker's Meeting, he agreed to the 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment Commission's proceedings. At the plenary meeting on 23 February, the four amendments were rejected to the full set of returns submitted by the Joint Parliamentary Groups, the Alternative Glaga de Left, the Galego Nationalist Block and the Galician Socialists. The amendments to the articulate formulated add up to a total of 141: 57 of the Joint Group, 39 of the Group of the Alternative Left Glaga, 20 of the Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, 19 of the Group of the Socialists of Galicia and 6 of the People's Group of Galicia. For its part, the Ponency designated at the 5th session of the Commission, Health, Social Policy and Employment, of 10 March, is composed of the following rapporteurs: Ms. Maria Teresa Cancelo Marquez, of the People's Group of Galicia; Ms. María Remedios Quintas Álvarez, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia; Ms. María do Carme Adán Villamarín, of the Group of the Nationalist Block Galego; Ms. Eva Solla Fernández, of the Group of the Alternative Glaga of Left; and Ms. María Consuelo Martínez García, of the Mixed Group. Following the constitutive meeting on 14 March and the following four meetings, the report was concluded on 6 April. Subsequently, Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, at its meeting on 15 April, adopted by the majority the dictatorship, incorporating a total of 32 amendments, 18 of which were negotiated, in addition to the corresponding techniques. Finally, the text of the Opinion is based on the explanatory statement; of 17 articles grouped into 4 chapters relating to the general provisions of the Galician social economy, to entities which integrate the participation of the sector and the creation of the Galician Social Economy Council, as well as to the promotion; of 5 additional provisions relating to coordination with the Galician Cooperative Council, with institutional participation, with the computerization of registers and electronic administration, with no increase in the budget allocations and with the establishment of the Welsh Plan for the encouragement of the activities of the social economy; of 2 transitional arrangements, the transitional regime applicable to the development of the Galician Social Services Act on consultative and participation bodies and the adaptation of administrative intervention to the market unit; of 1 single derogation provision and of three final amendments to the laws of cooperatives and social services, as well as to the authorisation for the recasting of the cooperatives, the provision of the right to enter into force of the title of the title of the title of the title of the title to be published in force of the Official Journal It is therefore necessary to complete the processing of this legislative procedure with the debate and vote on the amendments maintained and the Commission's ruling on the draft law on the social economy of Galicia which I have just tabled. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. The turn of parliamentary groups to set their position on the dictatorship and, if so, to defend the amendments maintained. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u36	Well, after the debate in motion and in committee of this bill, we must reaffirm what we have said in the amendment to the whole. This social economy bill doesn't respond to the expectations its title promises, limiting its content to the creation of the Galician Social Economy Council and marking general goals. Although the debate was open, it was impossible to reach an agreement, as the text continues to present great problems, so we keep the amendments that I am going to defend as a whole. The first problem appears already in the first article, which sets as the only object recognized by this law to regulate the entities that integrate Galicia's social economy. Our Amendment No. 1 adds the role of providing you with mechanisms to facilitate its constitution and expansion, recognizing its contribution to Galicia's social and economic development and the equitable distribution of wealth and the generation of social heritage. This amendment was not accepted; therefore, the law remains nothing but an objective, which is to regulate the entities that integrate Galician social economy. We maintain all the amendments that include, within the social economy, those that are dedicated to non-entrepreneurship social activities. It is already recognised at European level that there are social economy entities that are engaged in truly economic activities, and others that provide services to society and that are not really business or economic activity, but services to citizenship. We maintain Amendments Nos 9 to 13 on those entities that are part of the social economy. Among them we find it important that trade unions be part of. Trade unions are service providers. Despite the provisions of article 9.3 of the State Law 5/2011, of social economy, this bill excludes from the entities of the social economy of Galicia trade union and business organizations, so the catalogue of social economy entities will not count on the representation of the working class, although, in addition, trade unions also have among their members and between their membership workers and workers of social economy entities and, therefore, with a very important role in the working conditions of these entities. Law 17/2008, of institutional participation of Galicia's most representative trade union and business organizations, recognizes to these organizations its involvement in economic and social life. However, this social economy bill envisages its participation in the Galician Social Economy Council with a collective representation that eliminates the right of each business and trade union organization to have one member per organization. It doesn't make sense, since in Galicia there are three trade union organizations that are the most representative and have different criteria, that have different visions and that have different affiliations. And, therefore, the three positions that do not match in their entirety and in their conception of the social economy itself should be represented. We also bet on the participation of feminist organizations, because they are entities that watch for gender equality in all areas of society, included in the field of economics. And here's something very important, because we've been denounced and it's recognized – not even the People's Party denies this reality – that women are discriminated against in access to the world of work, in working conditions and wages that apply to us, and we're even discriminated against when we try to start a social economy activity. Therefore, the representation of feminist organizations is important. It is also incomprehensible that it is not included in the Galician Social Economy Council of representation by feminist organizations when the need for participation by the Directorate-General for Equality is admitted. So if there's that important recognition of women's rights, and for that, there's the Directorate-General for Equality, but not the organizations that represent women, social organizations. We also demand the participation of fair trade organizations, social credit institutions and NGOs, all with great influence on the economy. They all work for a fairer distribution of wealth, so they all have a fundamental role in the social economy. In particular, NGOs have a great deal of experience in the field of the social economy, and today they are responding to the actions that governments throughout the world should take on this matter. We maintain Amendment No 16, which adds a new chapter for the creation of the Galego Social Economy Institute, the executive body responsible for instrumenting public policies to promote the social economy. To the Council of the Social Economy of Galicia, whose creation seems to be the object of this bill, only optional and non-binding functions are granted, although its reports would represent the conclusions of all entities of the social economy of Galicia. So we keep Amendment Nos 17 and 18 so that their reports are binding. It doesn't make any sense to have a body where all the entities of the social economy are and that later their conclusions don't go anywhere, they have no binding character and they don't force the government to make any decision. But it is also more absurd that, as this council, a merely consultative council, without more functions, there is no executive instrument that leads forward, coordinates and acts to encourage the social economy. The draft law, as set out in Article 15, adds that the Eusumo Network is the instrument for promoting cooperativeism and the social economy, but we can see that its role is reduced to the area of cooperative work and labour societies. Such is the limitation of this bill and its lack of content which in its additional fourth provision states that this law will have no economic endowment for its development, which represents an irrefutable declaration of intent. There can be no law that can operate without financial resources. This is pure propaganda, that is, as it is usually said, a pamphlet by the People's Party, it's nothing more, it's nothing more than a pamphlet. Now, that's right, a pamphlet with very bad intentions, and I'll explain later why. But in principle it does not establish anything, no instrument, that really does give it as much as to worry about the maintenance of the social economy's activity. We therefore maintain Amendment No 34, which calls for the budgetary appropriations necessary to ensure at least the compensation of representation costs to social economy entities. Otherwise, the cost of establishing and operating the Council is transferred to non-profit entities, which, precisely because they are non-profit entities, should not have to bear more costs, the costs of operating a council that is created from the administration itself, but those who want to participate will have to have an budget to work, because it will not help in any way. So let's go back to that propaganda law. Let's keep Amendments 36 and 37 to the second transitional provision to ensure that all social services are subject to the prior authorisation regime. And here comes the really important thing of this law, which really matters to the People's Party, which is to put social services into the free market. Prior authorisation is terminated, entity control is terminated. This is going to be the big deal, and we're going to look at it now that we're starting to get into the debate of the Proposal for a Law amending the Social Services Act. You want to turn social services into the big business of private companies. A great risk we're going to run with all this. I have the only hope that they will have months of government left and that all these laws will have to change them, that they will have to be repealed and recast other laws that defend the interests of the Greek social majority, both in the Heritage Act, which we have just discussed, as in this Law of the Social Economy, and how we will very likely do with the Bill that amends the Law of Social Services. We keep the amendments to the last one, to 38, to limit the number of people involved in cooperatives in relation to the number of partners. It can't be that a cooperative can have more collaborators than partners; therefore, we want a limitation on the number of collaborators. And Amendment 39 is to establish that partner persons will not be able to develop economic activities that compete with the cooperative. Something that seems logical is not needed or explained that one cannot be economically supporting a cooperative and, on the other hand, having a business with economic interests to compete with this cooperative itself. And we keep Amendment 40 because we can't discriminate against the trial period of the people depending on the type of program they are hosting. There can't be six months for new people in a kind of social economy organization and initiatives and being more than six months away. However, we consider that six months of trial period is sufficient in any case for any worker, whether in the social economy or any worker who works for a non-profit company. We maintain all amendments to the last third provision amending Law 13/2008, which seeks to liberalize and lower the control of the Administration in social services. Moreover, the amendments to the Proposition of Law, as it said, of amendment to the Law on Social Services, are in time, so it makes no sense that we are prosecuting the amendment of a law that is at the same time being amended by another law, which in popular language is known as "a tangled one." What you're doing is a real mess with social services. What you're doing is you're turning them into a business and putting them into the hands of profit-oriented private companies precisely the most unprotected people, the most vulnerable people, the people who would need more support from the administration. So we will vote against this bill, because it does not only improve the social economy at all, it does not encourage social economy entities, it does not care about its consolidation within the productive fabric, it does not value its contribution to the country's economy, it does not value its contribution to a much more equitable distribution of wealth and, of course, it does not take into account any kind of women's difficulties in accessing jobs and creating their own social economy initiatives. But also because it doesn't recognize many social entities, such as fair trading entities or as trade unions, and changes important aspects of the Social Services Act to promote the provision of services by private entities with and without a profit. So, of course, what we're looking for in that modification -- and we'll see it with the modification of the Social Services Act -- is to convert rights into a big business, to charity rights. We will therefore vote against this bill. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u38	Thank you, President. As a first question, and as I did during the committee, I would like to thank you for your tone during the presentation and the debate on a number of issues contained in this bill, although we finally failed to reach agreement on the substantial parts that were asked of us, which were considered by the groups as the most important. We moved at the time, in the full debate of the bill, the concept and the importance that the social economy had for this group, and from what point of view we understood the social economy. First – and we have already said it at the time –, in the context of unemployment and precariousness generated by the cyclical measures of the last governments, generated by labour reforms, generated by a sort of regulations that led to poverty for most of the Greeks and Greeks – we also said at the time –, 17.2% of the population, but which is especially worrying because the mass of workers and workers, 13% of these workers are poor right now in Galicia. And in that framework of poverty, then, we need to analyze the role and precarious work, the low wages and therefore the role of the private initiative and the regulations that allow us to continue to increase profits especially from large companies while the progressive disposing of the working class is taking place. In that framework – we said in the consideration, in that debate to the whole – it was of particular relevance to the role that the social economy could play, and we moved that this group understood it as an agent of change, of social and economic transformation or as a tool for the distribution of wealth and hence of economic and social democratization. We moved back then that it was necessary to leave it shaped in the text. This is reflected in Amendment 32 of the AGE, to the explanatory statement, which was not accepted – obviously we have maintained all the amendments that have not been accepted during the process – and proposes to highlight the collective nature of the means of production of the social economy and the participatory and solidarity character of its management, as well as the community interest of its existence. Amendment 33, which calls for the abolition of paragraph 1.3, concerning the Lisbon objectives, was not accepted either. We had already commented on the liberal spirit hosted in that strategy and antithetic for us with the spirit that the social economy must have. They did not accept the proposal in their own commission either, we did not accept – sorry, we ourselves – the transaction concerning Amendment 34, which not only eliminates the concept of sharing wealth, but also had to do with the acceptance of an amendment from the People's Party, which we have already moved at the time, with which we were not in agreement. Nor have amendments 36, 37, 38 and 39 been accepted, which are in the same sense, and related to the amendment of the Social Services Act, to which I shall next refer. In the articulate, our proposal to include autonomy, self-management, as the primary criteria of social economy entities, both in Article 2 and in Article 5, and also in relation to cooperation, was accepted. However, those amendments that, for the sake of inclusive language, were not accepted, were intended to replace the concept of disability with diversity, debate which this parliamentary group has already established or has already tried to open in the debate of the Accessibility Act in this House and that we understand that it is necessary to address it seriously, with the seriousness it deserves. Article 11 on the composition of the Council for the Social Economy of Galicia shifted the need for the presence of an agent or agent of the Secretariat for Equality. This has been negotiated and it's contained, because the truth is we don't understand, although it's positive that it's included now, as a law -- that's also for reflection, we comment on it in our own presentation -- can pass the gender impact report, it can go through the different councils and get out like this, without any kind of equal agent. There is a presence, or there was a presence contained in almost all the councils; however, in relation to the Secretariat of Equality there was no presence, when, besides – we commented on it in the presentation and commission itself – some of the entities, especially those that have to do with cooperatives, for example, have a majority female presence. Our amendment 11 was not accepted, nor those of the other parliamentary groups, concerning the union presence in the Social Economy Council. It was a central debate within the presentation and we explained, as we warned at the time and as the unions and the ESC themselves warned, that a single union representative was frankly scarce, taking into account that social entities also have employees and workers, that we must also remember that they are a source of labour conflict and that some of these conflicts have also been a source of debate in this House. And we therefore understood that at least those three presences of the majority unions needed to be considered. If amendments 12 and 13 were accepted, which limited the mandates of Council members in Article 12, but Article 14 did not accept Amendment 18, on the introduction of training content in educational curricula. In our view, the text is more oriented than the economic aspect and not so much the cooperation, the associationism of the social economy. No agreement was reached on Amendment 21. The People's Party does not contemplate the aid, the follow-up, beyond the creation of entities. We also had a debate on this aspect during the presentation. We believe that it is necessary, when there is some kind of public aid or impulse, to follow up over the lives of social entities, to see if that measure is useful; if not, if it needs to be improved or what to do, whenever we know that many – we have discussed it here in relation to cooperatives and other types of entities – fail one year, two years or three after its put into operation. Nor is Amendment No 22, on aid for the creation of cooperatives or entities that are not purely economic, those aids – I have transferred it here – materials. For example, let us set an example – and so we reflect on it in the amendment – locations, meeting units or other facilities, especially when these initiatives are being implemented. If we have accepted the creation of an impulse plan, but in Article 17, fundamental economic amendments were rejected, concerning the launch of new social economy initiatives, which should also be reflected in that incentive plan. We had a debate on the usefulness of venture capital entities, of social economy, during the presentation, and after ensuring themselves during the same time that public financial tools were being discussed, however, the amendment 26 of the Alternative Glaga de Left was not accepted, which needed to clarify or clarify that public character of those risk capital entities and other financial work tools with regard to the social economy. Similarly, Amendment 27, which called for the encouragement of access to microcredit and other types of public aid, was not accepted either Amendment 28, which asked to promote the relationship of projects with credit cooperatives, micromechanism or certain ethical banking entities. It seems a bit paradigmatic that, on the one hand, we do not want to ensure the public character of the financial instruments that will be available to social entities and at the same time do not want to accept credit cooperatives, because we are told that they are private entities, and we do not really understand what is the intention beyond which it is to facilitate – we understand – the private bank, the ordinary bank. Even so, it has not been accepted, even though we have already said that we have accepted the introduction of a plan to boost the social economy, Amendment 29, which called for the plan to be promoted to have an economic plan. We are therefore practically as we were, because we can risk that if we make a plan that will not be put in place and that it has not ensured its economic viability, because there is no budget linked to this plan. In addition, Amendment No 30 on the increase in expenditure for the establishment of the Social Economy Council is not accepted. It didn't mean an excessive increase, but we understood that it was necessary at least to pay off the diets of those people who were going to be part of that Social Economic Council. And, above all, they didn't withdraw, as they have already moved, the one concerning the modification of the TS/2008, social services, in the last provisions, and as they were asked – I think in general – from all opposition groups. I had the opportunity in the speech, as well as in the committee, to explain what this group supports or understands about this process. It begins to be customary on the part of this government – and also in the case of the Central Government – the use of bills, legislative initiatives and even decrees to modify laws that have nothing to do with the matter being dealt with or which have little to do with the matter being dealt with, and this is precisely the case with this amendment. It uses the processing of the Social Economy Bill to amend the Social Services Act, but, above all, it happens that, with only a few weeks of difference, and as it moved in the commission itself and in the presentation itself, a proposal for a People's Party bill enters into this House to amend the same Social Services Act. I mean, in question or with the difference of two weeks, we're going to debate on two different occasions -- and I suppose it's going to be approved with a month and a little difference -- two amendments to the same law. The truth is that we have already said, at least as far as the legislative technique is concerned, that leaves much to be desired and of course serves to set patches instead of having a deep debate about the reality of social services. We ask that these aspects contained in the law be removed, if considered by the People's Party, be moved to the debate that we are going to have – it is now without constituting the presentation of the amendment of the Social Services Act, or even there has been debate on this aspect – and therefore we are left with such changes that we were, in addition to substantially changing the bureaucratic or administrative procedure, so that social entities can now access social services management in this case. And, therefore, we do not agree with this aspect. There was no debate on this subject and we asked that you withdraw to at least consider supporting this legal text. And so we have a legal text that we have listened to, as we have already moved into the debate in the plenary, without economic memory, which is practically only useful to put into operation a Social Economy Council that we don't know how useful it will be, with a plan that in addition doesn't have that economic memory, we don't know what characteristics it will count on, or whether it will actually be used to put those entities into operation, because, in addition – I repeat – not only the follow-up, but the follow-up, of them. And we understand that the improvement that can mean for the social economy is frankly little or very limited and far from what we considered necessary for that social and economic transformation and a distribution of democracy and wealth that, once again, is distant because of the prevailing model, of the liberal and wild model that today makes almost utopian think that a law of these characteristics can serve, precisely, to encourage that distribution of wealth or to make it change into something because the characteristics or tonic in general that is taking up the economy in our country. If you come in, and unless you change your consideration of amendments that have not been accepted throughout this procedure, this parliamentary group will vote against this law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u40	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, Counselor. I want to get started too, as Mrs. Solla has already done, thanking us for the work we've had in the presentation process. Indeed, there are already many of the laws in which I have the honour to have participated in your presentation, and I must say that in this context we have had an environment of work, collaboration and debate that, although we will not finish as we wish, that is, by reaching a consensus, it is true that we have discussed each and every one of the articles with depth, and it is also true that we have discussed each and every one of the amendments, which is not always like this. I therefore believe that we should put that work into force and the effort made by the People's Party's Party's own, because it is obliged and we want to say so. In fact, some of the transactions we consider important, even though this parliamentary group that I represent has been accepted by very few amendments and fewer transactions, but we do believe that it is positive that the General Secretariat of Equality or the body on which equality policies depend are present at the Galician Council of the Social Economy. It was an absolutely incomprehensible forgetfulness on the part of the text emanating from the Council of Unity. The truth is that we do not understand that there are representatives of almost all the departments of the Greek Government and that it was not the equality body itself, especially when we know that in the social economy and cooperatives the presence of women is a majority. In fact, it is a pity that the proposal that the unions are not taken up, or even as proposed by the Joint Group, the feminist organizations, or perhaps even the Gale Council of Women, is not even proposed. By entering into the amendments that keep this parliamentary group alive, indeed, in its process of taking into account, we have made it clear that we do not understand that this law was in depth what the social economy means, that it had really changed the framework of the economy to an alternative economy, or, let's say, to an alternative economic model. And we also strongly criticise that there is a change to the Social Services Act, and then I'll stop at the amendments, in which we call for the removal of that amendment. We are dealing with another law, in addition, which comes to this House by the hand of the Group of the People's Party, which amends the Social Services Act in respect of social initiative entities, and this law also amends that regulatory framework. In fact, as a legislative technique, it is incomprehensible, but it is also at the bottom of how social services should be regulated, it is not in this law where debate should be given regarding authorization or simply prior communication. We believe that the Government introduces this law a bit into despair, and now we're here, debating, while we have a law waiting to set up the presentation to debate about social entities. We keep keeping the amendments, and I'm going to make a simple summary of them and an argument why we keep them. In Amendment No 8 with regard to the budgets necessary for the functioning of the Galego Social Economy Council, I advise that we also debate in depth in the presentation procedure itself, as the Members who accompanied me well know, I have a certain scepticism that it is an advice that is going to work, that in fact it will not at times have a functioning that distorts the functioning of the ESC. And now that there is a transaction to one of your orders, that the development of that plan of impulse to the social economy does not have an endowment that will allow it to function, as you will understand, it is at least strange, because the elaboration of a plan of impulse to the social economy needs people or agents who develop that plan; a plan, of course, that continues to run without budget at this time, as the text is today. In Amendment No 12 we have maintained the need for social clauses. We know that the introduction of this amendment has its sides with regard to the Contract Law, but what we are asking for was a transaction by the People's Party that would allow it to be defined and quantified that within that contract law there is an orientation that allows social clauses, both here and in the very law that we are currently discussing with regard to social initiative entities. Amendment No. 13 we keep it because it seems to us to be an important amendment. It is an amendment that reaches this parliamentary group by the hand of cooperativeism, essentially by agricultural cooperativeism, but which could extend to all kinds of cooperatives. I'll read to it. And we also understand, after having a debate in the Commission on innovative financial instruments last week – as the Director of the Igape defined them – that could be an innovative financial instrument – to continue with this semantic creation of a new gerga – the creation of a cooperative venture capital. Amendment No 13 says: "A cooperative venture capital entity will be created which will foster a management framework, agreed with Xesgalia, which will drive the launch of highly impacted cooperative business projects, directed both to the Greek and state markets and to foreign markets. A professional monitoring of project management will be developed, and it will aim to participate in the social capital of new entities for an initial period of time of the project, in order to progressively withdraw, until it is out of the project, once consolidated." This amendment, as I said, is part of the Galaga Association of Agricultural Cooperatives, although its framework would not simply remain in agricultural cooperatives, as it prays in the wording we made for the amendment, since contextualizing the amendment is simple. In fact, the financial problems are clear on the part of all the Italian productive tissue, resulting from both the financial reform and the loss of the old boxes, but these financial problems are greater in the field of cooperativeism and in the field of the social economy. Therefore, in this amendment your argument is clear. We believe that this funding must be clearly financed by the administration or by public authorities; the management society seems to us that it should, of course, be Xesgalia and that this business development should be fostered by temporary and minority participation in the company's social capital. It was argued by the People's Party that it is impossible to accept this amendment. We understand that for us it is an amendment – I say – of silence, because it comes in addition to the hands of people who are trying to carry out cooperative projects every day, in this case in the field of agricultural cooperation. Amendment No 14 also refers to an important aspect, such as the creation of a new article, Article 17a, the impulse of equality and conciliation in the entities of the Greek social economy. As this amendment states, the Council of Galicia or the Government will promote the effective implementation of equality and conciliation plans in social economy entities by means of a programme to promote them, with their appropriate budget allocation. Obviously, there is a standard that regulates equality plans, not so much conciliation plans, for companies. We understand that in those social economy entities too, it is likely that this equality and conciliation plan will be regulated. But it can't be a cut and paste, which is a matter that often occurs in the business's own equality plans, and they need that budget allocation in order to be able to complete. I think it goes further than it might be that it simply appears collected in the law, but that the cooperatives themselves, the social economy entities themselves, where mostly women work, can see these equality plans realized; and the measures, necessarily, must have a budget allocation. We know that the will of the People's Party – because it has offered us a transaction during the presentation process – is to partially accept this amendment. If we do not change the position of the People's Party, in order for at least the importance of equality plans and conciliation plans in cooperatives and social economy entities to be collected in the text of the law, we would be prepared to see the possibility of reaching with all the Members and with all the groups a final text. Amendment No 15 refers in particular to agricultural cooperatives. In particular, I will read this amendment which would add a new article, Article 17b, of participation of agricultural cooperatives in rural development programmes: "The participation of agricultural cooperatives in rural development programmes and in the Galician rural development network itself will be promoted in order to value the services it provides, boosting the diversification of its activity and the development of other services aimed at increasing the well-being and quality of life of the rural environment." Of course, on the importance of agricultural cooperatives, I do not think that I have to argue too much about that, for all of us, it is obvious. With the latest published data, possibly decreased in the last year, there are 351 agricultural cooperatives. This amendment arises from the cooperatives themselves, from an analysis prepared by the Greek agricultural cooperativeism about the situation and its future strategies. And this amendment would be framed in those future strategies. It refers to the need to put in place mechanisms that improve different aspects of cooperativeism, such as modernization or resizing them; aspects that should not only go to spend in a way... as happened in the 1990s with rural development, that funds were often dedicated to the abandonment of agricultural activity or even to the massive deforestation of our territory. That is why we understand that cooperatives must be and participate in the development of the future strategies of these funds they receive. And that's why we also ask the People's Party to reconsider this amendment, absolutely reasonable and assumed, which I think simply improves the text. We know that it refers to agricultural cooperatives, and there are others, such as sea co-operatives, for example, that they could have been collected, but their problems are different, and it is also different how they come to European funds, so we would ask the honourable Member to explain to us why this amendment is not accepted. Amendment 16 is an amendment that we're going to call a testimonial. We continue to introduce, in all those texts of laws that include aspects that change the economy, the creation of a credit and financing institute – we know that its presence in this text is witness – to note that, when the Igape is giving debate on the need to modify financial instruments, we consider that it would have been braver and risked by the Government a complete modification of the Igape and the creation of an institute – the name is the same, as it had been considered by the Government – of credit; an institute that provided other mechanisms than only those of the Igape. And another day we can see how to make an effort to try to create new instruments. Amendment No. 17 is a necessary amendment, budget allocation. We are faced with another text without budgetary allocation, without a minimum reference to it, although it is said, as it has actually reached a transaction in the additional fourth provision, with regard to the creation of a plan of impulse of the social economy. We don't know whether or not you'll have budgets, which you don't have, of course, is the law. Amendment No 18 refers to the necessary relationship and coordination with the ESC. Finally, Amendments Nos 19 and 20 refer to deleting all articles with regard to the Social Services Act. We clearly believe that social services cannot be subject to prior communication, because, even if social services involving public health benefits are collected, it is very difficult – not impossible — to distinguish between what has a clear reference to public health and what is not. I'm going to set an example. Women's information centres, currently being modified through the development of a new decree, do they have to do with public health or not? What is the assessment we make about it? I consider it to be yes, for example, because they have to do with everything that has to do with gender-based violence, with direct attention to people, and with regard to health. But the juvenile centers -- I mean, we'd go in and try to put up a completely blurry, difficult frontier, and that often should have at least rather complex considerations. On the other hand, assuming that all social services, because they refer to the area of well-being or the well-being of people, have to do with public health and need authorization, it's much more rigorous, and really prevents companies that have nothing to do with the area of well-being...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u41	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u42	...nothing to do with the scope of social services, they end up being introduced – between quotes – "in the social services market", looking for new niches of benefit. That's why we're clearly holding Amendment No. 19 and Amendment No. 20, and we're radically against being authorized, prior communication, only for social services. We believe that they are a way of understanding the tourism market, for example, or the market of other types of establishments that have nothing to do with social services. That's why we keep these amendments alive. I repeat the congratulations I said in the scope of the commission work, and also, because I forgot at first, I want to extend them to the House's legal services, and essentially to the lawyer who accompanied us in all this procedure, because it really made it very easy to work. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. To thank the adviser for his presence in the debate of the law. And to say that the Socialist Group will keep alive all the amendments that we could not agree on in the debate in the Commission. We understand, in relation to the concept of the social economy – which is an ancient concept, is a concept that dates back to the 19th century – which is called by this term a series of companies that are born to respond to the social problems of an incipient capitalist society. And that right now, because of the policies – and we regret also – of the People's Party, we are again in that situation where we need to solve a number of socio-economic problems that are established in our society. But, on the other hand, we understand that this Social Economy Act will not respond to this series of problems we have in Galicia in both economic and employment. The first premise that it would have that definition of the social economy and the solidarity economy, in our understanding, is that the People's Party is failing in its political decisions, nor is it addressing itself in the introduction of this law. It is a sufficiently important law, since only cooperativeism and mutualism companies represent almost 10% of the state's gross domestic product. We found ourselves in a scenario where the Greek economy -- after times of the People's Party's governments, the People's Party's laws -- is one of the state's communities where economic growth and employment evolves worse. And beyond all the justifications and beyond all the makeup that you want to put on by the labor measures taken by the People's Party governments, austerity measures stop the consumption of families, stop the investment in the small cooperative company and what they do is that the socio-economic results for our country are worse. We understand that this law has no solution to those problems that are above the table in our country. And if we consider that Galicia is below the state in most of the socio-economic parameters, we expect laws that can be passed in the Greek Parliament that will come to solve people's problems, not just to give solutions to other things. And I mean, the honourable Member of the People's Party already knows, our red line of the Socialist Group in this bill was located in social services. And we understand that the introduction of the whole articulation with regard to social services that is being done in this social economy bill that comes to us is to give free rein to some companies that should not have it. In the view of the Socialists, in times of crisis, entrepreneurial initiatives should be placed in two aspects: on the one hand, the creation of viable enterprises in emerging and job-generating sectors, and on the other hand, the consolidation, impulse and vertebration of traditional sectors. Nothing makes us think that this law will contribute to these solutions. The Social Economy Act presented by the Government of Galicia does not design indispensable instruments to address these measures to promote the social economy, nor does it globally address a competitive policy for the economy in Galicia. Many of these proposals are made on the subject of proposals which are in the law itself, and they do not even count on the sectoral reports of the relevant councils. For us this law shows a significant lack of funds, it does not include new financing measures for companies, it abounds in various utterances without real content and business effectiveness, requiring no real action measures in any of the areas which it intends to regulate the law. In substance, the legal text is reduced to the regulation and creation of the Social Economy Council, which is limited in other respects to setting out mere programmatic principles. So we understand that they do not give real solutions to the problems that I have just mentioned at the beginning of my intervention. The fact that the Social Economy Council does not have an budget makes it even more difficult to carry out another of its functions, which is the preparation of studies and proposals. On the other hand, one aspect which we consider, along with the other opposition groups and which we believe to be relevant, is the lack of representation of trade union centres. I think if we take as reference other laws of the social economy, and even those of the state, we have to know that we are in Galicia, where there are three reference trade unions and that they have to be present; they should be present, we would lack a foot in that respect. But again, I would like to point out that for the socialists the main problem is what is intended to be done: a reform of social services regulations. The law particularly affects providers of this type of service, and it really approves a reform of social services regulations and not with additional provisions. We therefore believe that the groups affected by the provision of services must have a share in this regard, because the groups directed at child care, the elderly, persons with disabilities, those involved in the fight against unemployment, training, vocational reintegration, the inclusion of persons, those targeted at social housing, among others, constitute a value far greater than the interest they intend to defend themselves in this text, which is the removal of requirements or obstacles to the development of activity. We do not agree on this, we say so at the meetings prior to the transaction agreements, we say so in the Commission itself. And we understand that these kinds of services should be subject to prior authorization. In our view, the reform of the social services legislation envisaged should have been carried out after the appropriate debate with the entities participating in the Galego de Wellness Council. Since, as I said before, these types of services are affected, in particular, by entities providing such services; therefore, a reform of social services regulations is being addressed, and, as I said, it cannot be done as it is presented in this law. We believe that those groups affected by the provision of services to very sensitive people cannot be removed from the requirements or obstacles to the development of the activity. Because it is a value that requires the relevant administrative check from the very first moment. From the very first moment, you have to be skilled workers, suitable facilities, etc.; therefore – I repeat – we understand that prior authorization should be subject to. We understand that in parallel with an initiative with regard to the social services that are being dealt with in Parliament, the Law of the Social Economy, which from the back aims to put the Greek social services at the height – with all due respect – of the opening of a hairdresser or a coffee shop, I believe that we are not acting in a responsible way and, above all, in a way that positively values our social services, and that we do not liberalize. I mean, this law that puts above the table is a reform by the back door of social services, a reprivatization of social services. So the socialists in this respect, I said, is the red line and we're not going through. And it is not worth, Mrs People's Party - which I said in the Commission - when it comes to Community directives, the Community directives are a part of this. They already make a difference for the treatment of social services and it's a much more demanding treatment than for the opening up of any other type of company or facility. The Socialists therefore announce the vote against. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Cancel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u46	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, I would also like to thank the other rapporteurs from the other groups for the good treatment we had at the various meetings of the Phoenician Parliament. Also to the Chamber's Juridical Services, to its lawyer, for their support in the work developed at the various meetings. From this group we made an effort to try to consensualize amendments by accepting some and trading others. I think the effort has been positive and the initial text has been improved among all of them. Nevertheless, we could not accept all the amendments tabled by the other groups, because some of them are directly related to the concept of the social economy. I am talking about those who call for the abolition of the term business economy or competitiveness, and those who ask for the inclusion in the catalogue of the social economy of entities that do not engage in business or do not have the appropriate legal formula – feminist associations, NGOs, trade unions, social credit institutions or fair trade –. Because it's not the social end that defines what is an entity of social economy, because in that case there would be still many more entities that perform the activity with a social purpose: associations of the sick, the Caritas and a long et cetera. That's why I'm going back to my intervention of the plenary when we discuss amendments to the whole of this law, don't worry, I won't talk again about those Catholic circles that in the 19th century sought to humanize the economy, understanding that it was overly focused on capital, but I'm going to talk about which were the first economists looking for a reorientation of the economy in which the real object is man and woman, and not wealth. I'm referring to the great influence of liberal economists John Stuart Mill and Leon Walras, who pointed out that the solution to the social problems of the time was not the suppression of capital, but to make the world less capitalist and more moral. They were looking for greater democracy in production processes, they were looking for regular hours of work for employees, who were suffering from abusive days. And pay particular attention to business associations among workers, advocating the promotion of cooperatives for their economic and moral advantages. This model will be developed in the next century in Western Europe, since in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, linked to the Soviet system and with centralized planning economies, the State was the only economic actor, so there was no room for social economy agents. Because whether we stick to those early ideas of these 19th-century thinkers or if we look for the definitions that researchers make and institutions use in the 21st century, we're talking about companies in a different way to develop their economic activity. An activity based on people, internal democracy, solidarity, social cohesion, the inclusion of people at risk or social exclusion and even with different capacities. And all this, and more, is reflected in the guiding principles of this bill, because we are talking about a sector that does business economic activity, some for social purposes, but that they understand that social purposes are not contrary to these terms. In fact, the Galaga Business Association itself of Special Employment Centres without a spirit of Work uses these terms, uses the term entrepreneurship, the term competitiveness; which is not related to its object, which is the insertion of people with disabilities or with problems of job insertion. Because this is the spirit of the law: to value the entities of the social economy, to make their approaches to society, territory, especially in areas like that of the sea – we speak of fishermen's confrereries – the land – agricultural cooperatives, agricultural processing societies, or communities and communities of neighboring mountains – or work – labor societies, insertion companies or special employment centres. Nor can we support those amendments that remove entities from the catalogue because they are already recognised in the state law – speaking of mutualities or associations that carry out business activities – or changing their names by changing their meaning – leaving only confirmations and not specifying that they are fishermen. Because we cannot share the assessment that from the opposition groups is made to the bill, because it complies with the objectives that mark European institutions, the most advanced countries and the main researchers of the social economy, and that is the differentiated treatment that this sector deserves and that collects the law, contributing to the visibility and knowledge of it, providing it with a common legal framework that leaves it safe – as it cannot be otherwise, and therefore we cannot accept any other part of the amendments tabled – the peculiarities of the regulation of each of the categories of entities that compose it. In addition, it lays the foundations and principles on which future activity should be sustained. We also do not share those amendments concerning the reform of certain articles of the Portuguese Cooperatives Act, since they are improvements demanded by the sector, in line with the sector, and in which one of the great news of this law is gathered: the creation of the co-operative society of young people. Cooperatives that require minimum social capital for their constitution, which simplifies and undermines administrative procedures and that will be an important tool for promoting economic activities among young people, and therefore for improving their employability. Equal opportunities between men and women are also properly collected in the law. That's why we won't allow it to be said that this law does not collect equality. I will not allow it to be said that the Members of the People's Party of Galicia do not believe in equality. Furthermore, this law complies with all the recommendations of the preceptive gender impact report. In fact, the principle of equality between men and women is present throughout the text of the standard, in different articles, both in the guiding principles and in the composition of the Council of the Social Economy of Galicia or in the promotion and dissemination of the social economy. However, this group maintains the proposed transaction to Amendment No. 14 of the BNG, since we think it improves the text presented in this chamber. Another issue discussed in the Commission was the subject of specific financial instruments or budgetary allocation. We believe that a law must be a text that lasts over time, so to establish excessively concretely what financial instruments must be sealed to support social economy initiatives could leave out many opportunities, for example, the use of new European funds. The important thing is to collect in the text the need to establish that specific financial instruments are necessary depending on the type of entity. It's not the same as an internationalized cooperative, a project with a strong technological component, or the development of a small job insertion company or a special employment centre. The law takes these differences by establishing as possibilities, though open, the establishment of venture capital funds and specific microcredits for these companies. Because the important thing, as always, is how the collection is developed in the law and, therefore, this parliamentary group has presented itself in the amendment, which has already been incorporated into the motion, which establishes the obligation that the Government of Greece, within a maximum of six months, will approve an incentive plan for these entities, a plan which will be discussed in the Galego Council of the Social Economy and which will therefore be agreed and spoken directly to the sector; they are those who know what their needs are. This plan, or any plans that can be developed in the future, will, as it is logical, have a budget for its implementation, even if the law does not collect it. We also do not share the need for new structures in the Galician Union. I'm talking about amendments that propose the creation of a Galego Institute of Social Economy or the duplication of Igape, with the creation of the Galego Institute of Credit and Investment. It seems incredible that many of those who have always been questioning the existence of many autonomous bodies within the administration propose the creation of new, unnecessary structures, at economic cost to the Administration, rather than using the resources available for what are really necessary: to support the initiatives taking place in this sector on our land. Another criticism is the alleged lack of content or the role of the Galician Council of Social Economy. This Council will have a broad representation of the different sectors of society, but above all of the entities that make up the social economy. There is union representation, which we believe should not be extended because the characteristics of these entities, in which the worker participates in decision-making, should not be sufficiently given. It would also not be right for the proposal that is being tabled through the amendment that would give rise to the incorporation of many more representatives, which would lead to the disenchantment of the Council. In addition, this Council incorporates the municipal representation and the Greek universities, which is not collected in state law; therefore, it improves. This body, which many opposition groups minimize, is of vital importance, since it is the only organ in which it is recognised and voiced to the entire diversity of social economy entities in Galicia, increases the possibilities of non-institutional collaboration and will have an important role in the design of policies that have been established since the German Government. Because this law is a very relevant law, since we're talking about entities that provide stable and quality jobs. We are talking about visibility, encouragement, financial support of these types of entities. Because this law also incorporates as a novelty the inclusion of social clauses that favour the participation of these entities in public procurement. What we cannot vote for is an amendment which is contrary to the rules of free competition. We can't accept amendments that don't fit into the law's objectives, either. For example, the provision of premises for private entities to carry out their activities or to introduce an asset for a very specific type of such entities, agricultural cooperatives, as it is not the appropriate framework for their debate. Finally, I shall refer to the red lines which all opposition groups have expressed to me in the Commission, or at the various meetings, concerning transitional and final provisions relating to the reform of the Social Services Act. Red line that is set as an excuse not to support this law, since one cannot appreciate a law of these characteristics only by transitional provisions that gather something to do. We are talking about adapting the autonomous legislation on the authorisation of social services to the basic state legislation, which has already been adapted to Community legislation. But all of the above is done by collecting the specifics. Yes, it eliminates unnecessary regulations, it does not in all cases require the prior authorisation regime, but if it collects the specificities of social services, it collects the protection of people's rights and the guarantee of quality services. In the explanatory statement of the Social Economy Act that is being dealt with, the need to amend this law is clearly justified. In addition, it has been thought to be effective and effective, from a point of view of national policy processing, to take advantage of the processing of this Law of the social economy. In this project, the modification of the authorisation scheme collects the provision of state legislation and the interpretation given in the bilateral committees of the Autonomous Community and if prior authorisation is required for the start of the activity for reasons of public health and directly linked to the guarantee of adequate care and protection of users of social services. In conclusion, the requirement of the authorisation regime subject to the principles of necessity, but also proportionality, is sufficiently motivated legally and specified in its competition, being confined to the applicable legislation and which is to be complied with. Finally, this group will vote against the amendments that the other parliamentary groups hold. Let us maintain the offer of the transaction of Amendment No 14 from BNG, which we would vote for, and of course we will vote in favour of the dictation drawn up by the Commission. Because this law is based on the adoption in Spain in 2011 and follows the European recommendations established from the report of the European Social Council, which points out that despite the importance of the social economy in Europe, 10% of all businesses and 6% of total employment, there is high institutional invisibility, so recognition of its concept, legislation and policies is needed. For this is exactly what the law we're discussing does: to visualize entities, to create a council where the sector will have a direct voice with the Administration and where they can influence public policies designed by the Government of Greece. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Cancel. Round of parliamentary groups to define themselves on the amendments held by others. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u48	We are going to support the amendments tabled by the Joint Group, because we agree with many of them and, above all, because the opposition moves a more general view, more common on how we understand the social economy that this bill transfers. Now, listening to the speech of the spokesperson of the People's Party, it gives the impression that the People's Party confuses the Law of the Social Economy with the Law of Cooperatives, it seems that everything that is the social economy is cooperativeism, and the rest is left out. We were just talking about cooperativeism, against the savage exploitation of capitalism, the People's Party, which we welcome. We're at a time of wild exploitation and, therefore, of course, we have to jump through cooperativeism, but the law should go much further, because the social economy embraces much more. We agreed, in the opposition, on the need for funding through various means that have been rejected, as well as the ethical bank, credit cooperatives or Amendment No 13 of the BNG, which presents a proposal – which I think is really interesting – of the creation of a cooperative venture capital entity, and which has been rejected. It is not, as the People's Party's spokesman now said, to specify mechanisms in a law, no, but it must be specified that there are mechanisms, which they are, which can be resorted to and, in any case, left open to others who might appear. We also agreed on the need to budget the Social Economy Council and grant it binding functions. It creates a council that can think of, then opinions can be taken into account or not, that is, it's a job without much connection to the administration itself, without commitment, but, on the other hand, we're talking about a council made up of entities – as I said before – without a profit-free attitude and that they're not going to have any compensation for that work. So we understand that what is really meant is to create a non-functioning council that simply justifies that in law social organizations are given a role within an organism that will have no more role than, in any case, a mere adviser without more. As we also agree to extend the entities that are part of the Social Economy Council, we fundamentally agree, among other things, with the most representative trade union organizations, because this is fundamental. I believe that simply this rejection of union participation would justify the vote against this law. Because there's a real threat from the People's Party to trade union organizations, there's a real anti-union concept of what the world of work is. And I was saying that there was already a recognition of this activity in the social economy, which is not productive, but of services. In particular, CIRIEC – International Centre for Research and Information on the Public, Social and Cooperative Economy – recognizes two subgroups within the social economy: a subgroup of markets, a market subsector, and a non-market subsector, where entities such as trade unions would enter. So we understand that it is discrimination that makes the Free People's Party, in an anti-union conduct reflected in its relations with the workers themselves and the public workers, but also shaped in all the performances – or rather lack of action – the support of the demands of the working class against the interests of the employer. So we don't understand why the amendment of the AGE is not accepted as regards how to define "people with functional and cognitive diversity," instead of "people with disabilities", which is much more acceptable and is the one that people themselves ask for, and we don't understand why it was rejected in this law when it was accepted in many other laws. And, of course, we agree that there is a use. I don't want to use such a strong term, but, of course, an inappropriate or inappropriate use to modify the Social Services Act, which is, in addition to, in process, no?, a modification by the back door, as if it had nothing to do with it, but that ultimately are changes that are going to prevent the application of the authorization regime and therefore totally liberalize social services so that they can be privatized freely. For my part, that's all. I support the amendments to the opposition and rejection of this bill. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u50	Thank you, President. Briefly. We are going to support the remaining amendments to the opposition that have remained alive for this debate and of course we will not bother that if we vote on that possible transaction, if so, with that amendment that was pending from the Galician Nationalist Block. I have to say that, if the intention is to promote the visibility of the sector, a law you know perfectly well that – we all know not only the speakers, the rapporteurs, but all the Members and Members – do not serve that. Let me say that a law contributes to visibility, so, the truth is, with the heaviness of legislation that we take in this legislation and in the previous one we would have seen in most sectors of the country and solve all the economic problems of the country. And we know it's not like that. A law is not useful for visibility, for visibility, or for encouraging work done by the executive in that case. And yet, as I said in the intervention, it is not assured – although if that amendment was included, that transaction, for the creation of the impulse plan – that nothing will be done on the part of the Government. In addition, there is no budget item that can secure it. You said we shouldn't have put in place the financial instruments to keep them from closing them, that's the same argument that was also used in the commission. But, of course, it is quite compelling that amendments to different laws — we spoke before the theme of the Social Services Act — should be allowed or promoted for any sort of thing, for very varied aspects, and now in this particular the argument not to introduce or say concretely the type of financial instruments is precisely that we cannot be changing the laws. He knows perfectly well that they could be modified to introduce them, or even do it in a decree. And I also do not understand, as I said in the previous speech, why, despite the fact that the nature of the financial instruments of those who speak the law is said to be public, we do not want to take on the amendment which demands precisely to clarify that aspect. So we are left as we were; financial instruments suppose that even private, we don't know, and we don't even take care of those who have the most connection to what social economy could be -- I said in the previous intervention -- by setting an example, credit cooperatives. But, moreover, I repeat the same arguments concerning the union presence – I will not repeat them – the follow-up that is needed by the entities, because, when some kind of social assistance is involved, the responsible is to follow up on the usefulness of that social aid – we know that cooperatives close around two years, three years, of their openness – non-material aid, not only economic aid; and, of course, that introduction of this amendment to the Social Services Act, which we have already said to us legitimately a very unfortunate technique and that we are also not in agreement with the absence of debate on this aspect that substantially alters the procedures or access that some entities have to manage according to which social services. Many aspects of the possible liberalisation of that market have already been said here, which we will also discuss in the next presentation of the amendment of the Social Services Act, which also tends to open up the market to private companies instead of encouraging social services to be managed again from public services. The truth is that you also said that it was not necessary to specify some aspects, as I said before, of financial instruments, and that there was no need to increase the resources – referred to in this case to the Social Economy Council – and neither are the resources, as I said, defined in general for that plan. And so I'd like to know, if you say what you have to do is use the current or available resources, that's what these resources are going to be and what will be available to social entities to put this plan in place. And finally, and to finish with, I think we reiterated ourselves a little in the arguments given in the debate of the first plenary, too, when we said that competitiveness was not, could not be, the basis of the social economy. Obviously, social economy entities have to be useful and have to have continuity, they have to be, let's say, able to be on the market. But that can't be the basis, I don't believe in that human face capitalism that you came to define here. I believe in another kind of society. And we understand precisely that social economy entities must be a tool for that path that is socialist society, not for a supposed human face capitalism. We have reiterated that this human face is not possible, and less when we have the rest of the economic measures that accompany the economy in general in our country, including those that have already referred to; for example, how the labour market is. This will not solve anything in this respect concerning the labour market, and obviously it will not cause the economy to be democratized and the decision-making process. So, understanding that none of the amendments that this group has kept alive have been accepted, we are going to vote against.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u52	Yes, thank you, President. I'm going to start by picking up Mrs Cancel's words, because we actually have two different perspectives, to the great features of this law. You were talking here, to start your exhibition of Stuart Mill, and it was in the 19th century to talk about the fact that the advocates of certain equality in the creation of liberalism were already defending cooperatives. Of course, but it's not a moral issue, from our perspective, it's not a matter of putting patches or patches, it's a social issue, that's the difference. Authors of the 19th century also criticized not goodwill, or, if we are more rigorous, the utilitarianism that Mr. Stuart Mill advocated, but the need to change structures. Because, in fact, there can be people with moral capacity who seek to minimize inequality and not maximize it, they can be people who create companies, who create wealth... we know that speech. But these are the structures, indeed, in which social injustice is given, those that create inequality. So it's not possible to humanize that capitalism, because in itself it's a structure that generates that inequality. They're two different analysis frameworks and, therefore, from those two different analysis frameworks the positions are different. Hence, by appreciating what works and considerations can be done from the point of view of Stuart Mill's utilitarianism, we believe that inequalities are perpetuated by schematics and social injustices that create those own inequalities. And what's needed is to modify those structures and not simply humanize at some point or provide equality or provide ethical values for some of those parts. We still understand the importance of the social economy and cooperatives. We understand that it's defended that this is social economy, but it's not an alternative economy, or it's not changing the sources of the inequalities that are generated, that we're seeing them every day when we see the inequalities going up globally in the world, but also in Europe and, of course, in Galicia. So we accept the amendment, the deal with Amendment No 14, which would mean removing "the proper budget allocation"; that is, the text will go without any reference to the budget, but we will also use that spirit of equality of Stuart Mill, because we are going to have at least collected the scope of the creation of equality and conciliation plans. We keep the rest of these amendments, and we will vote in favour of the amendments from the rest of the opposition groups. We understand that there are important aspects in them, those that have already been referred to, such as the theme of trade unions, the theme of social services, the theme of the incorporation of developments that are not present in this text. And, above all, I want to refer to two questions. It seems to us a pity that Amendment No 13, which is an amendment which, I say, basically comes from cooperativeism – about all agricultural cooperativeism but which would serve another framework – is not introduced, and that, in addition, we believe that an innovative financial instrument such as cooperative venture capital is there remains anyway, although it does not appear collected in the law, so that an investment plan can be collected and traded or talked to the cooperatives themselves. And finally, for us, it is clearly a mistake this law introduces the amendment of the Social Services Act. I am not going to criticise the law in general as regards that it remains short, that in whole chapter IV, measures are indeed small for cooperativeism, for the social economy, but that amendment of the Social Services Act in this law distorts the law itself. It is incomprehensible that he appears here collected. It was far more coherent than the Government had done that amendment, even in an alternative text, if that will existed; because it distorts the Law of the Social Economy when what is intended is that social services contain simply – I said it before and I think all the vocabularies explain it, because it is a repeated criticism – with nothing but eliminating prior authorization by the Social Services Administration. Its danger is clear, i.e. the danger of commercialization, of seeking benefits in the field of social services. We've expressed it on numerous occasions. But it's just that, in addition, it's going to be at the expense of its own social services, which already have a lot of themselves, these years of crisis have had a lot of problems to develop in a way that enables us to reach the needs of society. I think, and so we will also let you know when we discuss the Social Services Act that is in process, which would have been much more coherent, by regulatory technique, to have discussed in particular all the changes that were intended to be made from the social services. Although, indeed, we are against, we believe that here distorts the law itself. It's a shame that, although efforts have been made, no more transactions have been made and that it does not actually deepen in terms of cooperativeism, the social economy as an attempt to modify a system that is not a moral problem, but that it is a structural problem of how relationships are understood in society, in which inequalities are increasingly accentuated, and that there is growing emphasis on that gap that exists between what was formerly called "capital" and now they are called "financial" and people who in times have been called, already for taking the reference...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u53	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u54	..."proletariat" and today it's called "preservation." There's a series of increasingly widespread concepts, but if there's something that we can draw from the XIX and bring here, it's that, in fact, the gap between those who have and those who don't have, the impoverishment of people, is getting bigger and bigger. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. We also want from the Socialist Group to thank the House's services lawyer for providing us with absolutely everything we do, and Mrs Cancel the positive feeling that we have held the meetings, but not exactly a negotiator. Because it is true that some amendments we have managed to compromise, but, well, just the fundamental of the law, the fundamental that half of the House understands because we have not, unfortunately, achieved it. We understand that Mr. Feijóo's Government has played in this Law of the Social Economy for propaganda and for double speech. Why? Because, on the one hand, you tried to satisfy the associative fabric of cooperativeism and the social economy and, on the other hand, to eliminate what the People's Party considers to be bureaucratic obstacles in public social services, which for us are not bureaucratic obstacles but a guarantee of better public service. This law actually comes to be a brutal liberalisation of services provided by private entities in the field of social services. That's the essence of this law. In parallel with the processing of this Government Bill by Mr Feijóo, there is debate in this Parliament, as I said in my first speech, a bill by the People's Group that regulates the social concert. The social concert is the tool which the Community directives promote so that social services do not have to meet the same economic and market criteria as the activities liberalising Community directives. So make a saving for public social services. It is therefore a matter of giving precedence to non-profit entities against the private enterprise as a provider of these services, this premise which is intended to save by changing the People's Party's Bill proposal, amending the Galician Social Services Act 13/2008, to grant this preference to non-profit entities. That's exactly what keeps the current drafting of the Law of Social Economy in its first, second and third transitional provisions. Therefore, from the Socialist Group, unless the People's Group accepts in this process the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group to these provisions, it cannot vote favourably on this draft law of the social economy, since this bill sets exactly the same height as it has to do with the requirements for its implementation of the residences of older persons or persons with disabilities or dependent persons or centres of minors or children's schools etc., etc., puts it at the same height – I say – with all due respect, as a mechanical workshop, a hairdresser or a coffee shop. And we understand that the Greek public social services have to have another treatment. And that's just where, beyond Mrs Cancel's good chair, we couldn't positively get opposition groups to agree. The Galician social services registration, authorization, accreditation and inspection scheme should not be contemplated, since activities are public object, and therefore are activities that are considered to be of a value greater than market values, which can be authorised in an uncontrolled manner. These services must have prior authorization from the administrations, because it is the public administrations responsible for ensuring the quality and provision of an essential public service. A private entity, whether a company or a social initiative entity that is going to develop a new activity, is not the one that has to believe in itself, which is actually what prior authorization means. It must be the public administration to visit, inspect and follow up at any time that the characteristics of public service are met. So to pass this Law of Social Economy is to leave empty of content what for us is a red line in this respect. It seems that the People's Party wants with a law to satisfy those who want to do business with disability, age or dependency; on the contrary, another People's Party law tries to appease the discomfort of third sector entities by creating social concert. So, and for that reason, the Socialist Party will vote 'no' to this law if it does not agree to suppress this liberalizing attempt at social services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u57	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Quintas. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Cancel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u58	Good morning. At both the presentations and the committee meetings, I have pointed out to the other speakers that it is not understood that their groups cannot support a law of these characteristics, which is a positive law, a law that will strengthen the creation and consolidation of entities that are working in our community by doing business, yes, but one based on the principles that I think we can all share. A law that starts, as it cannot be otherwise, from the law that already exists in Spain, but that improves it on many points, Spanish law which, on the other hand, was unanimously adopted in the Congress of Deputies. Although it was a year of election in 2011, the Group of the People's Party voted favourably for the text presented by the Government of the Socialist Party, as did the Nationalist Block of Wales and the United Left. We are going to support the committee's dictates and vote against the amendments that remain, because it is a law that has been analysed by experts on the subject, economists and lawyers, who, if they have made comments and suggestions, are all very far from the amendments that we are discussing today. Because in order to develop the law, the most dynamic sectors of the social economy were consulted in Galicia, represented by cooperative associations in particular, by those represented in the Galician Council of Cooperatives, of which suggestions were also given that were also incorporated into the text. Because it is a law that comes from the will of the economic and social agents of the community and of the Union itself, because it is a law that incorporates important newities, such as the extension of entities in the catalogue – speaking from communities and communities of neighboring mountains in common – including the incorporation into the Social Economy Council of representatives of entities already working in the promotion of them – and speaking from municipalities, speaking from universities; because it incorporates the inclusion of the social economy in the regulated study plans; because it makes these entities think about their active policies, active employment policies and plans that will dynamize the sector; because it creates the figure of the youth cooperative with lower capital requirements for their constitution and lower administrative procedures; and because it also simplifies the procedures for the formation of any cooperative through the implementation of the telematic reporting; because it incorporates something as important as the inclusion of social clauses in the public procurement and – which it seems as important to them to be the voice but the administration is also visible. In the commission we were accused of making electoralism with this law, when I really think that electoralism is being done by you, who, in front of your gallery, thinking about the next elections, cannot reach consensus with the People's Party of Galicia. Because if we can't accept or deal with more amendments, it's not because of a question of electoralism, but because of the reasons, all of them motivated, that I have already explained in my speech in summary and broader terms at the meetings of the panel and the committee and that they fully justify the positioning of this group. Because if we are the first autonomous community to adopt a Law of the Social Economy, it is not because of an electoralist question, but because we have a stable government that meets its commitments and works to improve our society, and does not make empty speeches of content, as is done in the new policy, where we speak of spaces of understanding, lines of consensus, when what we find in this Parliament is red lines and no real commitment to reaching agreements. To conclude, this parliamentary group will vote in favour of the dictates of the committee and of the transaction presented to Amendment No 14 of the Galician Nationalist Block and against the other amendments that are being maintained by the opposition groups, because this law we believe is a very useful law, which will help to improve our economy, to create jobs and also to society in general, because there is a law that has been improved in this Parliament at the meetings of the motion and commission, and because we understand that the amendments that are not accepted do not improve the text, some do not agree with other legislative texts or compliance. Nothing else, thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of legislative texts
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Cancel. We therefore turn to the vote on the legislative texts. We begin with the vote by Ditame, drawn up by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, of the Galician Cultural Heritage Bill. Two compromise proposals came to me. One is in Amendment No 22 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia, which adds the additional provision for the twelfth; and another transaction is with Amendments No 47 of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, 180 of the Parliamentary Group of Alternative Glaga of the Left and 157, namely points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia, by reference to Article 122. We therefore vote for these two transactions. We vote. Can we vote all of them...? Do you want to be separate? Perfect. First of all, we are voting on Amendment No 22 to the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia, adding the additional provision of the twelfth. We vote. Vote of the transaction on amendment 22 to the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, drawn up by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, of the draft law of the cultural heritage of Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 64; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. This transaction is therefore approved.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u60	We are now voting on the second transaction which I have read, in particular with Amendment No 47 from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, 180 from the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, 157 from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block of Galicia in the points I have read, 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, in relation to Article 122. We vote. Vote of the transaction on Amendments No. 47 to the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, 180 G.P. of the Galga de Left alternative and 157 of the G.P. of the Nationalist Block Galego, points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, in relation to Article 122, to Ditame, drawn up by Commission 4a, Education and Culture, of the draft law on the cultural heritage of Galicia The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 72. This transaction is therefore approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u61	We now vote on the amendments. We begin with the vote on amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint Ditame, drawn up by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, of the Galician Cultural Heritage Bill. (Doc. # 49625) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u62	We are now voting on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Galician Left to Ditame, prepared by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, of the draft law of the cultural heritage of Galicia. (Doc. # 49632) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u63	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Nationalist Block Galego au Ditame, prepared by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, of the Bill of the Cultural Heritage of Galicia. (Doc. # 49626) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u64	We are now voting on amendments to the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, drawn up by Commission 4a, Education and Culture, of the draft law of the cultural heritage of Galicia. (Doc. # 49629) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u65	And now we are voting on the Commission's ruling on the incorporated amendments. We vote. Voting of the compromise text of Ditame, drawn up by Commission 4th, Education and Culture, of the Galician Cultural Heritage Bill The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. The Commission's ruling is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u66	We are now voting on Ditame, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, of the draft law on the social economy of Galicia. They made me come up with a compromise proposal, which is, in particular, number 14 of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, adding a new article, 17a, and the resulting technical amendment in the explanatory statement. We therefore vote for this transaction. Vote of the transaction on Amendment No 14, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, to Ditame, prepared by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law of the social economy of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 70. This transaction is therefore approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u67	We now vote on the amendments. We support the vote on amendments to the Joint Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. Joint Ditame, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law of the social economy of Galicia. # 49667) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u68	We are now voting on amendments to the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Alternative Galician Left to Ditam, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law of the social economy of Galicia. # 49669) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u69	We are now voting for amendments to the Parliamentary Group on the Nationalist Block of Wales. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Nationalist Block Galego au Ditame, prepared by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law of the social economy of Galicia. # 49672) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u70	We voted for the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Voting G.P. amendments. of the Socialists of Galicia to Ditame, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law of the social economy of Galicia. # 49668) The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 34; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. These amendments are therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u71	Finally, we voted for the Commission's ruling on the incorporated compromise. We vote. Voting of the compromise text of Ditame, drawn up by Commission 5th, Health, Social Policy and Employment, on the draft law of the social economy of Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 34. The voting is positive. The Commission's ruling is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u72	We are now debating the motions. G.P. motion. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Paz Franco, on the constitution by the Government of Galicia of a commission to follow up the situation of the dairy sector in Galicia and the tasks it must have
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u73	To formulate the motion, you have the floor to Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Whenever we discuss the milk sector, the spokesmen in this area often describe the size of our initiatives. I shall begin by saying that this motion which we are presenting today I describe as very modest, since the requests we make to the Council of Galicia through this initiative do not cover either great economic costs or even great political efforts, but simply what they want is to enforce, on the one hand, initiatives adopted earlier in this House and, on the other hand, to ensure compliance with commitments made in other areas by different governments, so I believe – I suppose – that will be adopted unanimously, I hope. I believe that it is necessary to start by saying once again that the situation in the dairy sector in Galicia is becoming more critical and increasingly unsustainable for most of the farms that continue to be kept in agricultural activity. There are countless symptoms, the problem is that the government doesn't want to see these symptoms. It's more, when symptoms occur, the Government does what it does is to try to minimize the symptoms and even attribute them to other issues that have nothing to do with reality. We've just seen recently how there are farms that are forced to let their cattle die. Those we know at least the idiosyncrasy of this country, we know that it is the last thing a farmer could do, let his animals die, and not only because of the issues of linkage that exist with what he gives you to eat, but especially because they are the livelihood of his exploits. Faced with that, the rural councillor, instead of looking at what's happening on our country's farms, simply saying that nothing has to do with the crisis situation in the sector. Just as we are beginning to produce quite notoriously what we could call the rejections of the rural environment of Galicia, the rejections of the dairy sector, because there are farms that are indebted not to the limit, but to the next. Someone can really explain to me how it's possible for you to survive an exploitation with an indebtedness of more than half a million euros, which exist in this country, because they've modernized themselves, because they've bought quota, because they've assumed expenses to make a viable exploitation. With more than half a million euros of indebtedness and income that each one of them decreases more because the prices haven't just recalculated. And before that, the Galician Union offers no alternative but to look elsewhere. Of course, I'll make a statement roundly. In any country in the world, normal, after the 22nd day of this month was known the second report of the follow-up to the dairy agreement, seeing the data that the ministry itself and the signatories of that agreement put, black on white, in that fifty-second peak report, all the people who said in this country that the agreement was historic and that would give results to the sector, should immediately resign when they saw that data. And if you don't resign, allow me to speak, you'd have to run them to the hats of your office. Because the report, endorsed by the ministry, tells us terrible things. The great solution, which were the contracts published by order four months ago, is currently 500 contracts signed throughout Spain, they do not reach the 500 contracts, and no one makes any self-criticism about the situation. The report says that the collection by industries, including by subscribers, has been abandoned. The report says that it is true that for consumers in supermarkets milk has risen, and that today there is only 22% of milk sold at less than 60 cents, but at the same time, the report says that in February the price lowers the average price for livestock 0.6%. It is therefore the theme of the stamp: the crisis in the dairy sector was taken advantage of and the September 23rd agreement to raise milk to consumers but to continue to bring it down to the livestock. A real timo da stampita! And I also say that agreement, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no vision that consumption will be recovered or that prices can be recovered in the medium term, and the People's Party and the Government of Galicia continue without charging receipt of the situation in the dairy sector. But in Galicia we have a particularly serious situation, ladies and gentlemen, not only linked to prices, as we have already discussed in the interpellation, but that 30% of the milk sold in this country is less than 25 cents. And there's a terrible news coming out: 80 gainers of Sarria's cheesery charge 45% of their milk at 14.7 cents, 14.7 cents, ladies and gentlemen! This, if we move it to work, where the minimum wage is EUR 650, is as if we assume with total normality that 40% of the employees of a company are paid EUR 300, less than half of the minimum wage! For here we are paying them with total normality less than half of what it costs to produce a liter of milk, much less than half of what it costs to produce a litre of milk!, and nothing happens, and the Rural Council continues without charging receipt that in the milk sector we have serious problems. But it's just that there's an even more serious problem in terms of the future, which is that we're contracting our sector, we're losing weight. The whole of Europe is increasing milk production, and we are comparatively increasing much less, which means that we are no longer taking up a milk market. And it's very difficult, when you lose a space and others occupy it, one day occupy that space again. We are therefore faced with a terrible phenomenon for the future of the dairy sector in this country, which is, on the one hand, the relocation of milk production. Interestingly, where it grows most is where less natural conditions and less objective conditions have to produce milk, such as Andalusia or Extreme, apart from other clearly surplus European regions. So we have a relocation problem and a low milk cost production problem in Galicia. Finally, the Ministry and the Galician Union – but the most worrying thing is the Galician Union – fifteen days after the European Union's regulation that allows voluntary milk production to be reduced, has not yet said anything in that regard. And, of course, for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, milk reduction should, in any case, be compulsory and at the level of the whole European Union, and, of course, be accompanied by economic incentives. Because, if it is voluntary, what will motivate it is that, if in the Spanish State the production of milk will be reduced voluntarily for six months, it will be the Germans and the Germans, the Germans, who will have to reduce even more milk on their holdings, when, for example, surplus states in the milk production, such as Ireland and Germany, they have already said that they do not intend to reduce even one milligram of milk production; and that will mean that, while we once again sacrifice the Greek holdings and the Greek livestock to cover more those of Germany, Ireland and France, consumers will continue to be those who have to consume the milk surpluses that are produced in Ireland, Germany or France. I mean, once again we're going to be the sinking of milk that remains to the great producing powers of Europe, while forcing our farmers to reduce their production. And I insist, once someone takes your place, your place, your space, in the market, it's very hard to get back. So what we're asking for with this initiative is that there are things that have already been approved here. Here we have already tried a follow-up commission on the situation in the dairy sector, and what we say is that it consists and works, and that it has nothing to do with – because it has nothing to do with – the process of negotiating the Dairy Sector Strengthening Plan, which is a different thing than dealing with the momentary crisis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u75	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u76	And that in the context of that commission we analyze everything, but above all that a round position of Galicia is set in relation to that we can't stop producing milk for others to produce it and that we have to finish eating the milk that others produce while they close our farms. I hope that this initiative – as I said – is very modest, very simple, is approved unanimously. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. I have to make a correction. This motion has not tabled any amendments. It is now the turn of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u78	Good morning. Thank you, President. The German dairy sector is in a terminal situation, agonized, is the chronicle of an announced death. The despair of the glovers, the fatigue of meetings, the unmet promises and the wet paper agreements, we were able to visualize it with the dantesque images of the abandoned farms, the agonizing or dead echoes that have been collected in recent days by the media of three cases in Galicia. Tired of unfulfilled promises, wet paper measures, package agreements, desperate for debts, victims of policies that mistreat them. In spite of being the ninth European producer and the first in the kingdom, Galicia recorded the lowest prices, unable to cover the costs of production, and did not object to the end of the tragedy. And they assist in their helplessness in the importation of milk from other eurozone regions by industries located here: outrages, white ridicule and total contempt of their rulers. It is so clear that Galicia suffers discrimination in this sense that it is impossible to believe. The images that we were able to look at in the newspapers a few days ago are the hallmarks of the future of the sector. Isolated cases, in the mouth of the counsellor, in this linguistic strategy of the People's Party so well known by all; isolated cases, the metastasis of corruption that occupy the PP; isolated cases, the deaths of hepatitis C patients due to lack of medication; isolated cases, suicides by evictions. The dairy sector agonizes the victim of economic programmes against this sector fundamental to the economy of our country. And you look elsewhere, you actan and you justify, you betray, you lie and you don't do it. As this proves, six months after signing the large dairy agreement last September is not yet applied. Nor is the decree adopted that would enable us to know the so-called transfer prices, and this is a very important step in favour of transparency in the sector, because it would allow us to know what industry lends to the producer and the distribution to the packaging company. And yes, if prices rose, but for consumers and not for producers. And now that the government of the state in function and that of the Union ending the legislation speak of a plan to strengthen the milk sector, another ton of hair. Five concrete measures contain this BNG motion which the Joint Group will support with its vote, five measures which would strengthen the sector and which would also support their recovery. Five measures you could take with your approval by the Government party, making this House a place for the debate of ideas and for the debate of proposals for citizenship rather than for partisan confrontation. The Joint Group will support this motion. Nothing else, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u79	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u80	Good morning. We are going to support this initiative, although we believe that in this case the only possible initiative for this country to have a future is to put the People's Party of Government down and stop institutional violence against people. It is the only solution to cynicism, the dehumanization of total politics practiced by the People's Party on a daily basis. The advisor unties the cases previously explained here from the crisis in the sector. The counsellor talks about isolated cases, what does this sound to us about isolated cases, also isolated cases of corruption in the People's Party, because it's very good simile. These isolated cases are as isolated cases as the isolated cases of the corruption of the People's Party, i.e. structural corruption in the People's Party. And what's happening is just the tip of the iceberg of a structural issue and the death caused by a sector because of the inhuman, dehumanized policies of the People's Party. Applying rationality in politics is very important, but that must not be confused with dehumanizing it; it is essential to always put oneself in people's skin when politics are made. The statements of the advisor – and as we shall see further before the Health Counsellor and Mr Feijóo – are totally the opposite of putting themselves on the skin of these people. This is the tip of the iceberg of a very serious situation. To put yourself in the skin and ask yourself, what can lead these people to a situation for this to happen? If we're honest, honest, and if we think about people, that's the first thing we have to do. What can happen in a situation when three cases are given in very little time of ginning that have always lived in this activity, taking care of the cows, and not killing them, so that they are left so much that despair is as much as to let more than a hundred cows die, as if they were left to die these days? We have to ask ourselves that. And we have to ask ourselves whether this is because of the economic situation that systematically leads in this country to the price of milk paid by farmers under the cost of production. One cannot reduce, as you always do, in the individual sphere, one must look for the root causes and one must look for the root causes in the policies that lead to this situation. And besides – I've got it checked – the dairy sector had a moment of outrage and rebellion in the face of policies that crushed it. Now, all you can see is hopelessness, they don't expect anything, they don't have the strength to mobilize because they're desperate; that is, you don't expect anything, no solution. And, of course, a government has legitimacy at the beginning of its activity, but it completely loses legitimacy when it ceases to play the role for what it is there, which is to seek the common good, the common interest of these people. When you see figures and you don't see people, when you know the limit situation of these people and they don't do anything, you're disgruntled to rule and you exercise institutional violence against these people. You just need to put yourself in a person's skin like the one we saw recently in the media. I just sent a message to a brother-in-law, a newly incorporated young gangster, who says to me, "These kinds of situations are giving more than you think, no one is so" – and I'm sorry – "goat like to let their hungry cows die. I'm a gangster and for some help I've asked for to build a facility, I have a commitment to the European Union to keep a minimum of 60 animals over 24 months for 5 years, and if I wouldn't have to return the help I received from the ones I paid for the stable, something that I could not do. If my economic situation becomes as serious as these losers, what could I do?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Well, this is happening now and you look somewhere else, and it's more, you blame your own gain. No shame, absolute lack of dignity, absolute!; you, who have not done any of the duties that they had to do as Government; you, who have been a disaster in land management policies and increased territorial base; you, who have been a disaster in the management of industrial projects that are so necessary for this country of milk transformation, who have done what they have done in dairy foods, and who have done what they have done, lately, in the September agreement, that they have not been able to push a decree...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u81	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u82	...of price transfer in six months; you, still above, blame the victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u83	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u84	Thank you very much, President. We will also support – as we have always seen – all initiatives with regard to the milk sector. The situation in which the sector is located has only one responsibility for us, which is the German Government, and Mr Feijóo, as President of the Galician Union, is the only true culprit of this situation in our farm. Without any sort of palliatives, I say so of course, Mrs. Pacín, I say it by the replica or by following her terminology, Mrs. Popular; that is, without any kind of palliatives, the only culprit of this situation is Mr. Feijóo. If the crisis is at European level, you are responsible and complicit, since you agree and vote in favour, and you are a buyer of the policies that your ideological brothers carry out. That the elimination of the quota system and the liberalisation of the market was a decision that was made long ago – and in those three or four years there were things like the subject of the Russian method, such as the change of the international stage and the elimination of consumption – because they are also accomplices. And that there is no political reaction on the part of the State Government, and on the part of Mr. Rajoy, who has had to spend these four more years hiding his corruption, with the matter of milk, is also guilty. But that in Galicia, being the first producer of the state and being the ninth European, we have the cheapest milk in all of Europe, is only the fault of the President of the Union, Mr Feijóo. That in Galicia, where less money is paid for milk, wherever we have the daily threat of collection of all the amount, that where milk is cheaper is where it is confined scandalously – as Mrs. Paz said – and that it is the industries themselves that are deciding where there have to be livestock and they are deciding that in Galicia they do not want the owners, but rather they want them elsewhere in the state and elsewhere in Europe, it is only and exclusively the fault of Mr. Feijóo. You're guilty when the ministry itself clearly recognizes that in the next luxury there will be a thousand dairy farms a year, of which one thousand every year half will be Welsh. And you don't lie or contradict, you don't even make reference, you don't even do a different analysis of that situation. You are therefore guilty with your actions, you knew it, or you had to know it – and we told you many times what was going to happen –; you knew it and you had to know that when you signed that agreement – and you knew it perfectly – it was only a way to discourage mobilizations and get rid of mobilizations, but that you weren't going to assume any sort of advance towards what was ultimately the problem, that it was to pay more milk to the producers. You are guilty when today, despite having sold an advance of the CAP aid, you are charged in the last seven years to the CAP; you are guilty when today there are still enormous problems to apply for the CAP this year; you are guilty of a disaster that will ruin the development of rural areas; you are guilty of leaving thousands of farms located in rural areas under the amendment of the Land Law, and you are guilty of introducing fiscal measures that are prejudicial to, for example, improvement plans. That the dairy sector lacks an industry placed on the market, with products manufactured, it's only their fault. That the dairy sector today doesn't have a territorial dimension that can compete and that can reduce its production costs is entirely their fault. For the thirty years of what they've done with the partial mergers, during those thirty years, and for nothing they've done in the last seven years of the Feijóo Government. Let a French company say last week that within two months it will pay the milk out of quota, which is the quota it has now set up the industry, i.e., that it will go bigger than the produced last year to 11 cents, when the intervention is at 18, and that Galicia has no ability to send that milk even to 18 is its own fault, only and exclusively its own fault. Let the counselor say one day and another that it is the fault of the greedy people that political indecency – not to be too rude – is not only guilty, but rather that it casts the indecency. And, look – read – in France, charging 35 cents, a study of the National Institute of Health itself, where it says that every two days a farmer commits suicide. And most of those farmers who killed themselves in the last few years, every two days, one is a milk farmer, charging 35 cents. So if still in Galicia - and I note that "yet" - we are not in that situation, although we are experiencing very worrying and very regrettable symptoms, it is neither by the action of this government nor by its responsibility nor even by its prudence and measure in its statements that the President of the Union and the Counsellor of the Rural Environment have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u85	Thank you, Mr. García. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs García Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u86	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. Mrs. Peace, you run them into squeals... really, after listening to the interventions, I knew that opposition groups would not let the subject go without making statements and conclusions based on the publication during these days by means, but without questioning the facts, gentlemen, when the only reality is that judicial proceedings are opened in several exceptional cases, which in no way can we link to a single cause. At least, it should be prudent, and I appeal to the responsibility of the groups, especially for the serious damage they can do with their comments, with their accusations directly, not in the greedy products, but, above all, in the professional work carried out by the Greek holdings supervised at all times by the rigorous and efficient administration. Let us wait, ladies and gentlemen, for the conclusions of the investigations to base opinions on truths rather than on assumptions. But we hear again today that the Counsellor blames the dairy sector not in Galicia anymore but in Spain or Europe. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the real culprit is a market with a deep imbalance between supply and demand, and to correct that balance, finding and achieving better prices at the beginning is working from the beginning, from the beginning of a situation that parliamentary groups in the opposition never wanted to solve. The only thing they used was the situation to attack in a way – I won't use any more of those words that raise awareness of some voices – always directly against the management of the Council. But what really matters, ladies and gentlemen, is that the owners know that the Government of Galicia, that the Ministry is putting all the tools, all the forums, all the meetings, tables, commissions to reach among all, except the opposition groups, solutions, proposals and concretions. Ladies and gentlemen, the nationalist spokesperson always states that the plan for strengthening the dairy sector in Galicia is a plan, but she comes to bring an initiative... didn't she say that? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Again and again, I repeat myself. What you do is you bring to this plenary an initiative that says it's complementary to a plan where all the agents in the sector are represented. Ladies and gentlemen, producer organisations representing producers themselves, we're talking about Agricultural Unions, the Labour and Youth Union; there's also Agaca, the cooperatives; there's also the distribution; there's also the industry; there's also the university and experts; there's also the control bodies of the Greek dairy sector; there's also the administration itself, because some group even allowed initiatives where the Administration was missing, but they agreed on technicians. All the people in the sector are firmly inflated by all the issues you raise. Because, ladies and gentlemen, if we go to the bottom of the initiative, we see that the first point and the last point really – as the Mrs of the Joint Group said – are concrete measures and measures, specific measures that will solve the milk problems in Galicia and elsewhere. And I literally read to you – Mrs Peace – "To analyse the evolution of the situation in the sector, as well as to formulate concrete proposals and measures to deal with the increasingly critical situation of dairy farms." Mrs Peace, proposals and concrete measures. At the fifth point: "Set specific actions in collaboration with the string set to ensure the construction of the value string from the source to its final frame, so that there is a balanced participation of the value string." More concrete actions. But, ladies and gentlemen, today, and after multiple debates, I don't know, I don't understand, I don't see these concrete actions from the ideology you represent. Please explain here to resolve a topic among all of us, to put a debate in a positive light. Because you remember to say negative news that comes out in the media; alongside it there are positive news and you don't see them, you really don't see them. The only thing they do, yes, is to want to participate in the follow-up committees of agreements that have always failed, because they are agreements that, if not historical, are historical agreements, with voluntary commitments by both sides, of which a quarterly follow-up is being made, of which...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u87	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u88	...is translated into society, but above all to the owners and producers, all the measures, actions and concretions that both governments, autonomous and state, are doing, and with forums of dialogue and consensus, where all voices are represented, Mrs Peace. Because both agricultural organizations and cooperatives are part of the Platform, they are part of all agents who have something to propose, and all those proposals are transferred.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u89	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u90	And really, the other issues you're raising are talking about, they're negotiating, and there's the forums...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u91	Thank you, Mrs. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u92	...as is the ILAG. Actually, there are always forums, but you, the opposition, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u93	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. Motion author group. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. To me these debates in the dairy sector, if it were not for the dramatic situation of the sector and of the people who try to live in the sector, who try to continue a productive activity in our rural environment, of course, Mrs Pacín's interventions were almost laughable, because she repeatedly expresses that on the part of the opposition we did not formulate initiatives, which we made no proposals, but, of course, they never voted in favour of any one. Look, Mrs. Garcia Pacín, you and I probably know what the proposal means, point 5 of our initiative, but you and I also know that there are things that can't be put much more explicit in writing, and I don't think you need to explain more, or yes? Do you need me to explain, do you want us to write that the Board feels all the links in the chain on a table and forces everyone to accept that the benefits of the chain must be shared in an equal way? By the way, what you say is always a word, but then at the time of truth they don't. And, of course, we all know that these have to be sectoral agreements, but why is it a Government if it's not to use all the instruments that you have at your disposal to force these agreements on the part of private operators?, what, Mrs. García Pacín? Here, I don't know if anyone in the opposition ever said that the plan for strengthening the dairy sector was a plan; I, of course, don't remember, you repeat it... Oh, it was you. Well, guilty, guilty, Mr. Garcia. In any case, what we always agree with all opposition groups is that a plan for strengthening the dairy sector which has long or medium-term measures, by encrypting that medium term in four, five or six years, is absolutely useless if we do not rescue farms before, which may have to close in two or three months at the very best of cases, Mrs García Pacín. That is why we have to complement this follow-up commission. Look, here we put out very specific proposals: Why does the Galician Union not decide, instead of having to lower milk production, to remove two or three million litres of milk for humanitarian aid, which remains in places in the world to send humanitarian aid to? why? Don't you want to help the sector so much? So do that, something very specific, put it here at point 2. Why don't you do what point number 3 says to everyone, to the minister and to whoever you want to hear that the Greeks and the Greeks aren't willing to reduce the production of a milligram of milk in our country until it's reduced equally throughout the European Union? Or are you willing to tell the friars or the gainees of any other place that have to stop producing milk...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u95	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u96	...and that we have to keep eating the milk that remains for the French, German or Irish? Is that the model you want for this country, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u97	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u98	If they really want that, they vote rather than on the People's Party initiative, but if they want there to be a future for the dairy sector, it will be time for them to start voting in favour of the sector at some point. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández, on the new rules that should promote the Union of Galicia in the field of transport
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u100	No amendments have been made. Mr. Fernández has the floor for the defence of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. We are dealing with this motion on the initiative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to endorse the Interpellation, which was discussed at the plenary meeting on 12 and 13 April last, on the decision of the Supreme Court to annul the extension of the public transport concessions of passengers by road from Galicia. Once again, the opposition groups representing this chamber, this time the Socialist Group, have taken the initiative to address the serious problems affecting citizens and our country's business fabric because of the incomprehension of the People's Party Government. The Counsellor, in the face of such a serious fact as we are concerned with, did not appear voluntarily in this chamber on her own request as she demanded the situation that had been created, did not bring together the political groups, even the voices, to explain to them what the situation was at that time. Nor did he come to the request of the Socialist Group. He did not appear, he did not show his face, he did not show the protocol regarding this chamber, the parliamentary groups and – what is even more serious – neither the Greek and the Greek users and users of the road passenger transport, nor did he have any respect for the companies in the sector itself. He manifested a worrying desire and passivity and even an alarming incompetence. He actively refused to exercise his responsibilities as counsellor with Mr. Feijóo's passive convolence. He did not appear voluntarily to account for the position of the German Government regarding the complicated, even complex situation in which the permanent public transport of persons of general use by road in Galicia is found, as a result of the Supreme Court's ruling. Nor to offer rigor and a certain amount of tranquility to a sector in uncertainty. He wasn't brave or consistent with his responsibility as Transport Counsellor. He came to this chamber, but he was forced, brushing his teeth, obliged by the interpellation presented by the Socialist Group. And of course he was perceived uncomfortable and with an absolutely disappointing speech. He didn't feel like knowing where he came from, where he was and where he wanted to go. Locked on in the past, away from the present and insecure towards future solutions. Astrincheed in a past based on the Fearful Resolution of the Directorate-General for Mobility of 26 February 2010, for which transport concessions were extended for ten years; it was also bound by the judgement of the High Court of Justice of Galicia, which gave its Government the reason to justify that Mr. Feijóo's Government was acting legally, and cut to excusing Mr. President and blaming the two-party Government. Little original, of course, and nothing credible in view of the facts and the Supreme's judgment. This misdiagnosis of the situation in the past does not allow you – you have neither allowed you nor allowed you – to view the gravity of the present situation nor to clarify a successful exit from the future. Because the real situation, the present situation, as a result of the decisions of its government, is very different: 147 concessions, 100 percent of the unlawfully extended concessions and the concessionary undertakings attached to the plan for the modernisation of the permanent public transport concessions of persons of general use by road in Galicia. Today 129 concessions, 89% of the total, circulate through Galicia providing this public service in precarious, allegedly, as a result of the fearful resolutions of the People's Party's governments. There are no more excuses, no more parapets or trenches. You don't want to be confused, gentlemen of the People's Party. They do not intend to charge the Supreme with the current situation as a result of their unilateral decisions. Judgment 585/2016 of the Supreme Court discovers its plots with force and clarity, does not give rise to interpretations. It is fundamental that Mr Feijóo's government has violated European Regulation 1370/2007 of 23 October 2007 on public rail and road passenger transport services, through the Resolution of the Directorate-General for the Mobility of the Environment Council, of the Council of Galicia, of 26 February 2010, in which the granting of transport of passengers by road in Galicia has been unduly extended for ten years. He also annulled the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia in which you stood. There are no more trenches or parapets, the Supreme Court has brought us all down by placing the Government in a situation of no credibility. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context, and in the light of the fact that the Government of Greece is passive in the field of transport in general and in this particular case, we have tabled a motion for a resolution with two points which summarize the present and future needs of the carriage of passengers by road from Galicia. Thus, in the first point, in point 1, we address the needs present asking the Government of Greece to draw up an urgent transitional rule to avoid the prejudices caused by the judgment declaring the extensions of transport concessions null and void. It's a known fact that the cancellation of extensions is generating a legal limbo in the provision of services. In this sense, the objective of this proposal is to avoid, or solve, a legal vacuum situation with possible immediate undesirable consequences. One of them is the abandonment of services with the consequent loss of supply of transport on non-responsible routes that materialize in rural areas and in less-income areas. On the other hand, to avoid instability in business viability, especially small and medium-sized enterprises located in rural areas. We therefore propose in point 1 to draw up an urgent rule guaranteeing services, reconciles the general interest and that of the concessionaires in respect of the Supreme's judgment and in the framework of Community Regulation 1370/2007. At the second point, we intend to invite the group of parliamentary groups that make up this House to address the future of mobility in Galicia. We all know that this is a long process where we should already be working on the proposal and start this path parallel to the present transitional standard. It's about defining the sustainable mobility model to drive in our country. It is therefore a fundamental task to overcome our peripheral nature with regard to the European Union, the Spanish State and even our cities. We believe that the mobility model, along with the territorial model, turns out to be key in the development of Galicia, and as such we must address them. I am sure that we can share objectives and contents in future law, such as the development of a new transport map, environmentally friendly mobility, the efficiency of transport networks, new modes of transport, the coordination of these new modes of transport, the full use of intermodality, ensuring mobility and the presence of the rural business fabric, ensuring the viability of services, achieving territorial balance and solidarity between rural and urban spaces, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u103	In any case, with this proposal we do not intend to offer a detailed model in our vision of the sustainable mobility scheme, that corresponds to the whole of society. We just want to open up the debate and add support to start the work without further delay. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u105	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The Supreme Administrative Dispute Chamber cancelled last March the Board's decision approving the Grants Modernization Plan. The judgment found an appeal brought by the National Competition Commission against the decision of the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia which considered this resolution to be law-adjusted. In its appeal, the National Competition Commission argued that the plan involved the automatic extension of all concessions and that it was contrary to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council setting the duration of public service contracts, which could not exceed 10 years for bus services. The decision assesses that the extension of concessions is unconditional and gives 10 more years to all existing concessions, irrespective of their initial period, of the period already elapsed or any other circumstance, which violates European legislation; and all these extensions, in exchange for new technological and environmental investments. The adoption in 2010 of the express extension now annulled by the Constitutional was surrounded by controversy in the face of the imminent entry into force of the European regulation of the sector. This law was adopted by the Council and the Galego Transport Committee and the Economic and Social Council for the extension of the deadline without delay. Nor did he refer it to the other councils, as it was mandatory for all draft laws, but especially in this one, which affected the competences of education, such as school transport. The Supreme Court does not question the German law of the year 2009 but questions the resolution of the year 2010. This will bring serious consequences to the road passenger and road passenger transport sector and leaves a critical situation of allegiance to most concessions in Galicia. Here the Government of Galicia is obliged to correct the regulations and apply for contracts that have been illegally extended through the extension system. The famous extension restricted competition because it involved the absolute closure of the market, with disproportionate deadlines, a way of perpetuating traditional operators. This creates long-term oligopolies that are closing other operators the door to entry into the Greek market, which contravened the Community regulation of the year 2007, where it was established that extensions could only be allowed in very specific cases and with a maximum limit of five years. And before that, the PP government quickly promoted the legislative change to circumvent this fact. And three days before this change came into force, the DOG published the law as a matter of urgency, which extended the validity of the concessions for another ten years counted since the due date. The urgent law extended the 143 existing authorizations at that time, in most cases the same company would continue to serve beyond 2020, and the latter will expire by 2029; 44 of these extensions go beyond 2023 – including those that join the cities of Greece with their metropolitan areas –. And besides, a good number of large groups, such as Monbus and Arriva Northwest were the great beneficiaries. Social and qualitative criteria must be established to maintain and increase quality standards for public service obligations with regard to minimum operating conditions, travel and travel rights, the needs of persons with reduced mobility, environmental protection, safety of persons and obligations arising from collective agreements and other rules and agreements relating to workplaces and social protection at the place where the service is provided. In order to ensure transparency and comparable terms of competition between operators, or as a warning of the risk of social dumping, the competent authorities must impose specific quality standards in social and service matters. We must preserve and improve public transport as an element of territorial, social and economic cohesion, for its accessibility in the localities, taking into account our dispersed population model, with the possibility of offering a better price to users and users, and environmental advantages, and offering the redistribution of different means of transport. In these moments of economic crisis, there was no concern for the community service, nor was it taking into account the increasing ageing of the population, which is very alarming on this land, making mobility easier for our geography. We are going to support this motion because we believe that there must be a very, very urgent solution to this problem, because it is within a legal vacuum, to ensure the mobility of the country as a whole and also to give optimal conditions for transport operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-wing Galician Alternative, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u107	Well, this is another of the great heritage that leaves the Government Feijóo for the future, a stream of great management by this efficient and effective government: wind, the milk sector, aquaculture and now the transport sector. But he has a special ability for the People's Government and the People's Party to receive with a smile the opposing judgments of the courts. It's all right, the sentence cancels 144 routes, but everything was fine here. It's obviously an inheritance that also refuses to face the People's Party, kicks it forward and performs an operation similar to what was done on its day with the wind competition. Article 241 of the Organic Law of the Judiciary, point 1: "Integral incidents of nullity of proceedings shall not be admitted. However, exceptionally, those who are legitimate parties or were due to be entitled to request in writing that the nullity of the proceedings be declared..."—that was the incident of nullity of the proceedings submitted by the Board of Trustees. "You will be competent to acknowledge this incident the same trial or court that ruled out the resolution that acquires firmness..." "The court or tribunal shall refuse the proceedings, by means of a briefly motivated provision, of any incident in which it is intended to raise other matters." And point 2 tells us that, "Admitted to processing the written request for nullity based on vices referred to in the preceding paragraph of that article, the execution and effectiveness of the inadmissible judgment or resolution will not be suspended." I mean, the presentation of the nullity incident does not affect the firmness of the judgment, unless the Supreme resolves the suspension of the execution of the sentence when he decides on the admission of the incident procedure. I mean, kicked forward and left others the petate. They'll do as in the wind, they'll put the extension into a law as they did with the wind, with which it could only be annulled by the Constitutional Court, but not by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia or the Supreme; a play of more trilerism. It means that after seven years they have not done that work that is now called upon in this initiative, which was to work in coordination with society and the sector to make a new sustainable transport model in the country, which had taken into account the current reality of 2015-2016 of this country, which changed a lot since the 1990s, when the extended concessions came, failing the European regulation, which was flagrantly breached by passing a law one week before the entry into force of this regulation, but instead the resolution of the modernisation plan adopted on 26 February 2010. It is clear that the People's Party has done this and has stopped doing the rest of the work that was to be done, which is to work on a thorough reform that solves the problems that bus routes can have by road, for example in rural areas, routes that can not be sustainable if you don't study the way they are. And that's what I think is the philosophy of this proposal: to start doing a job that has to be done from now on, no matter how soon there will be elections and they'll have to come to re-make many of the poisoned inheritances that leaves us a government that has promised to be a good manager but which, in fact, proved to be quite the opposite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u108	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u109	Good afternoon. From the BNG Parliamentary Group we will support this motion, which essentially demands two things. First, that the Union assumes reality, and the reality is that it has a judgment that questions its transport policy and that it also leaves in a legal limbo most of the road transport routes in our country. And the second is that I have at least the intention to listen to what the sector means and above all to guarantee the right to public transport in our country and also to offer a solution to the deficiencies in public road transport. We have very clear that we are at the end of a great lie, that justice has just revealed, that the great lie that the People's Party told is that with its law of modernization of transport, with that modification that has been made, really what was being deceived both the Greeks and the Greeks as well as by misleading the transport sector itself. We have already denounced it when this law was dealt with in the Galician Parliament, and in fact at that time we warned that this was a mistake, that it was a false solution and that it was also the Union that knew it. So if I didn't know that in that law the Board had already tried to shield itself by saying that if there were any kind of derogation from this regulation, it would have no kind of responsibility from the heritage point of view; that is, the board of Galicia knew that it was making a false solution, it continued forward with the processing of this law, but the grave thing is that we lost a chance. Because this so-called transportation modernization plan was really an automatic extension of existing concessions, some concessions designed for a 20-year-old Galician who has nothing to do with the mobility needs of the Greeks and the Greeks today. And, therefore, the opportunity to modernise public transport has been lost, it has been allowed to maintain outdated concessions, because we know that there are unmet needs and routes that actually didn't make sense at the moment, and now what we have is an poisoned problem and inheritance for those who come after. It seems to us that this is a debate that is not going to be able to face the Government in the time of the discount that is left to it and that practically because this situation is going to have to confront the Government that comes after, that we hope that it will have as priority – at least as far as it depends on the BNG so we are going to do – that we have to give an alternative public transport that guarantees mobility in our country; a country that has a dispersion population that also makes the public transport model have to be thought of in relation to that reality, with a very important part that is out of stock, aged, but also needs an alternative from the public domain, because there are many people isolated in this country that depends on whether they have resources to pay a taxi, whether they can move or not. The Union has failed in these years in public transport. It's just enough to see that your big bet on transport in the metropolitan areas isn't even implemented throughout the country, which is a policy of minimums, which doesn't have a collective vision, and that, therefore, what we need is to overcome this situation. A new law is needed, and above all a transport plan and a mobility plan that is really an alternative to modernise public transport in this country. Because the fact is that what leaves us together is a legal limbo and a gross failure in transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u110	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Goldar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning, very late, now, all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the motion put forward by the Socialist Parliamentary Group which brings about the substance of the appeal during the plenary session 15 days ago. Mr. Fernández, I'm going to try to focus on the matter, because if I had to answer the amount of inaccuracies and judgments of value that you've done in this rostrum here, because I wouldn't get 15 minutes, and the truth is, I don't have them. Besides, for those of us who had the opportunity to see their press conference last day 21 because you said exactly what you said today to this rostrum. Mr Fernández, in his present representation, wants this Legislative Chamber to urge the Government of Galicia, in short, to draw up an urgent transitional regulation to avoid the prejudices caused by the recent Supreme Court judgment and to present, in collaboration and dialogue with the transport sector and with the municipalities, a new mobility law that incorporates a new transport map to ensure the viability of services and transport companies, as you have explained here. We must point out, ladies and gentlemen, in order to focus on the debate, that the Judicial Services of the Galician Union, which defend the general interest of the administration and as a result of all the Greeks and all the Greeks, have made it clear that the ruling referred to by the Socialist Group may undermine the legislative autonomy of our community. And they'll know something, Mr. Sánchez, by procedural and administrative law, the Galician Juridical Services. Furthermore, this judgment, which contradicted the ruling by the High Court of Justice of Galicia, could violate the rights and guarantees granted by the Constitution, and therefore has already been challenged by the imposition of an incident of nullity of proceedings, as the Counsellor had advanced in response to her inquiry conducted during the past full, and that today that incident has not yet been resolved by the highest court. In any case, Mr Fernández, ladies and gentlemen, whatever the final solution is given to this issue by the courts, the Council of Galicia plans to move, with the utmost consensus with the sector, on a line of action which, on the one hand, gives the highest legal certainty to the public transport service providers, on which they directly depend – not to forget – more than 5,000 people and to their own users, and on the other hand, defines the actions that will be carried out to achieve a definitive solution to this problem. In this sense, the Government of Greece plans to move forward in the design of a new public transport planning, which had already been planned for the development of the Feder 2014-2020 operational programme through the planning of the public passenger transport system in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, based on the integration of transport on demand. But, Mr Fernández, by agreeing here with you and your parliamentary group, it is necessary to set up a transport system planning according to the evolution of our society, of the settlements of population and of the economic activity itself, but that while ensuring the viability of the transport services it will promote and guarantee the mobility of people and the maintenance of the productive fabric in rural areas, thus contributing to the fixing of the population in it and avoiding the depopulation of the territory. In this action, the participation of local authorities and the transport sector itself, as you point out, but also other interested groups will be particularly relevant. The interest of the social partners in setting the basic lines for the evolution of the transport services system, as well as for the representation of users, is evident. Similarly, in today's society, the specific needs of groups of persons with disabilities should be addressed, contributing to ensuring universal access to the public transport system. The People's Parliamentary Group therefore believes that if the proposal made in this motion presents elements of coincidence with the lines of work being developed by the Government of Galicia, it does not cover all the elements to be taken into account or properly accompanies the time needed to carry it out. So, it doesn't agree with a minimal rationalization of public authorities' actions to pretend to legally influence through two successive phases as you propose in the resolution part of this motion, i.e., first a transitional rule of character for the maintenance of the current system, delaying to a later legal norm of a general and global nature the planning work of the new service system. Mr Voicer, this complex solution that you ask us to support doesn't look like our most efficient trial to ensure the proper execution of the judicial failure to be finally enforceable. Therefore, and in the light of what we have just explained to you, Mr. Fernández, this group will not support your motion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u112	Thank you, Mr. Goldar. Motion author group. Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u113	Thank you. Thank you for the support of the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Left Galician Alternative Group and, logically, also of the Galician Nationalist Block. The truth is, I'm not surprised at Mr. Goldar's intervention, as it didn't surprise me in past days that of the Counsellor's. Of course, speaking of surprises when the Supreme's judgment is provoked by the illegalities of the People's Party, man!, it seems a bit frivolous, at least to call it that, doesn't it? You're telling me about the incidence of nullity that the Counsellor has already announced in the previous plenary. Look, the incidence of nullity will last what lasts the forum that corresponds to taking the papers, and you know perfectly that it will last that time, it will last less than a candy at the door of a school; as soon as they put your hand and read it, it's all gone, there's no incidence of nullity anymore. In any case, you also speak of a new law, of a new impulse... they've been ruling the People's Party for seven years, two successive legislatures; it's been twenty-four of the twenty-eight last years ruling in this country; it's been thirty-six years of self-government, and now are you in a hurry? Are they credible, when, in addition, in the previous plenary session, all the guilt of this sentence was from the two-party government? By the way, the Supreme Court at no time questioned what the Bipartite said in transport; what questioned is what the People's Party did. Look, the Supreme Court's sentence is to put him in his seat and leave Mr. Feijóo's government defenseless. And it seems incredible that he had left it defenseless after seven years of government – without defenses, I mean without a plan B – because they knew perfectly well that that resolution violated the Community rule. They have deceived the sector, and they know perfectly well that they have deceived the sector. They also wanted to deceive the European Union. I even think you've been tricked. The sentence was only a matter of time, and you knew it perfectly. And if it has served the sentence – which it certainly has served – it is to be able to set out what is the real situation of this council – before macro and now micro –, a board located in the interim – three general directors in three years, three general directors of Mobility in three years, a chaotic level of execution and management.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u115	You consented to the disappearance of itineraries and stops of traditional rail transport, allowed the change of schedules and routes of road transport, airport coordination continues in the limbo of the just...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u116	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u117	...there is no progress in the light subway, no progress in the transport of neighborhoods, no progress at all, nothing at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u118	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u119	Seven years absolutely lost.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u120	Mr. Fernández, it's been a long time. If you can finish, please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u121	And if anything is missing, this sentence is over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u122	Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u123	With which, look, to this day, the situation is really chaotic.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u124	Thanks, you got it, you got it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u125	Look, no extensions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u126	You understand, you understand, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u127	...real, no modernization of the fleet, no improvement of the interurban services...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u128	Thank you. It's just that it's been a long time, it's been a minute over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u129	...no new law, nothing at all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u130	Thank you, we get it. Thank you, Mr. Fernández, thank you very much. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u131	We resume the session with the Motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Mr. José Ramón Val Alonso, on the actions to be taken by the Galician Union in relation to the labelling of the Galician mexillon, the financing of the functioning of the Regulatory Council of the Galician Mexillon Denomination of Origin and the increase in the number of existing producers under its certification. G.P. motion. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. José Ramón Val Alonso, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the labelling of the Greek mexillon, the financing of the operation of the Regulating Council of the Mexican DOP of Galicia and the increase in the number of existing producers under its certification
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u132	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u133	To formulate the motion you have the word Mr. Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Today we speak again in the Greek Parliament of the Mexillon sector in Galicia and its difficult situation; of the difficult situation that is living because of the lack of momentum of the Greek Government in strengthening a fundamental tool for achieving cohesion of the sector as is the Mexican DOP in Galicia. Today I will try in my intervention to change the approach put forward in the interpellation of the full past to let the representatives of the People's Party see where the responsibilities of the current situation lie. And it is true that since the publication of the decision of the Pontevedra Provincial Court, a campaign of despicableness and burden has begun against the Regulatory Council initiated by a part of Anfaco, represented justly by its secretary general and the president of the same association. But this is not the serious one, but this campaign of contempt against the Regulatory Council was fully assumed by the Greek administration, and more specifically by the Quintana advisor, using for this biased truths and data and even directly falsehoods. And I'll try to prove with data why this is so. The latest data available, that is, the year 2014, indicate that the production of mexillon in Galicia was 235,000 tons, of which 139,000 were devoted to fresh consumption and 96,000 for transformation. The German Government has only been spreading that the product certified under the PDO represents 14% of the total. But what hides the German Government is the real figures. The supply controlled under the PDO corresponds to 31% of the total; that is, the amount of mussel coming out of the bats under the support of the Galician Mexillon DOP is 31% of the total, but only 14% is certified, because there is a serious demand problem. The industry is not claiming this certified product. Therefore, the problem is not in the Regulatory Council or in its direction. The responsibility lies, not with the Galician Mexican Regulatory Council, but with a government that defends a part of the processing industry that prefers to work with an uncertified DOP product. That's right, you'd rather work on an uncertified DOP product, but you want to make mention and allusions on the label to a product that is clearly not certified by the protected designation of source. Producers registered by PDO therefore produce 16% of total production devoted to fresh consumption and 54% of total processing. It is clear then that the figures that represent the Mexican DOP in Galicia are quite different from those that tend to be spreading from the German Government. In addition, another of the arguments coming from the Council and the Government is this famous 2003 dictatorship that unties it from the protected designation of origin. A false argument, a loudly false argument, first, because that report is four years earlier to the register of Galician DOP itself in Brussels, which, as you all know, was in 2007, and the adviser and the councillor adhere to a 2003 report. And second, this is roundly false because reality tells us that there's a mexillon in the market that's being protected by the DOP. Specifically, in the year 2014 – I repeat: the last year of what there is data – it was more than 30 million kilograms of megallon certified by the PDO that were devoted to the preservation of a total of 96 million kilograms, which represents 30%. And we could be talking about 51 million kilograms and 54% of the total if there really existed that demand from the processing industry, because the producers under DOP produced 51 million kilograms of the 96 million conservers in 2014. So what is needed is that the Government no longer understands this as a problem in one part of the sector against another. This must be over by now. Because if we want the whole mussel to guarantee its origin, we have the tool to do so; that's the protected designation of origin. What we should do among all, and above all the Government of Greece, is to strengthen it and not to shoot at it, as they have made different representatives of the Government of Greece in recent times, more specifically the Director General of Fisheries and Aquaculture, Mr Maneiro, as in Commission 8a a few days ago in this Parliament of Galicia said this was a war in the sector. Well, today, with the current production of the battered under the protected designation of origin, we could be certifying 54% of the total mexillone devoted to transformation -- that is, what capacity there is. What is not a commitment from any part of the industry, which is exactly what you are defending, to ensure the origin of a certified product with a protected designation of origin. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they can't be saying, on the one hand, that they can't enter the protected designation of origin, standing in that 2003 report, and at the same time saying that what you're doing is trying to get a PDO that integrates all the interests of the productive chain: producers, processors and conservatories. This is something contradictory in itself. They can't say that the preserve can't enter the PDO and at the same time be saying that what they're doing is working for you to integrate all sectors of the productive chain into the PDO. This is impossible, Mr. Balsairo. Either it's one thing or another, both at the same time it's impossible, unless, of course, there's a trap. Unless you're thinking about ending up with the protected designation of source and setting up a protected geographical indication. If that's your way, you should say so; if that's your roadmap for the Greek mussel, you should say so. But what you have to say is that the level of protection of PDO is to ensure that all three processes, both cultivation and processing, are linked to the territory, and with the geographical indication protected only one of these processes has to be linked to the territory. I mean, they probably won't say it, but what you're doing is leaving the door open so you can make sure that what you're not. If that's your roadmap, you must say it publicly and not deceive people. Because this is the battle, gentlemen of the People's Party; this is the battle of the Cantera, which is very skillfully using a part of the producer sector to confront using – as I said before – half-truths and fully biased data. I repeat that today, with an industry more committed to the Greek products and without making any further effort, we could be certifying 31% of the total production of the Greek mussel, and if they want it otherwise, 54% of the total production dedicated to the conservation and 16% of the devoted to fresh. So today's no excuse. There is a tremendously clear judgment which interprets the law and acknowledges that there is a violation of the rules of protection of PDOs, Regulation 1151/2012 of the European Union, and that it also recognises that even the allusions to Galicia, although the product is German, goes against the law. This is logical, because otherwise protected designations of origin would no longer have meaning. We therefore believe that you have more than enough legal basis to strengthen the position of the Greek mussel and the designation of protected origin, legal basis to inspect the labelling and what is being done in Galicia. You yourself, in your Decree 124/2010, which speaks of the references concerning the origin, in your paragraph 2, say textually that "they are excluded from the scope of this legislation of references concerning the origin those products protected by protected designations of origin"; your decree, uh!, its Decree 124/2010. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we believe that today, with this motion, you have a lot of things to do, but mainly to vote in favour of enforcing the law, something tremendously logical and simple. For one thing, that. On the other hand, strengthen the position of Galician Protected Source Name Mexillon. And also modify your budget so that, for the first time in a long time, you correct a mistake and stop suffocating the Regulatory Council economically, because this year 2016 you dedicate your zero euro budgets for operating expenses. So I think you have a chance today to decide what model you want for the Galician mussel. If you want a model of success, like that of wine in Galicia with the designations of origin, which we all know, a model of success like that of Terreira Galaga, or if, on the other hand, you're working to get the same thing going on in the dairy sector in Galicia, where marketing and distribution have absolute control over producers. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we have the tool to ensure the origin of a quality product, to defend producers from a part of the industry that hides their true interests. We have a clear regulatory framework and production capacity. All that is needed is political will to strengthen an important and vital sector for the economy of Galicia. Let's hope they rectify, and you have the opportunity today, as I said before, to enforce the law. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u135	Thank you, Mr. Val. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Balsairo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Val, the People's Group has tabled an amendment, tabled a replacement amendment, where there are coincidences. We fully agree with your initiative in point 2 and point 3 to ensure budgetary support for the quality brand and that it can add more producers. It's something the Government of Galicia is already doing, how can we not agree? And we also have huge discrepancies in the consequences and scope of the judgment you referred to. And we, from the People's Parliamentary Group, have already told them – and we told them a few days ago – that you played at the riot, played the ball because neither is this sentence that goes against the Council of Galicia – which is what you intend to say, as they want to create this public opinion – nor does it spread general effects, because it only binds the parties – on the one hand, a particular company, and on the other hand, the Mexican Regulatory Council – and does not create jurisprudence, because it can only arise with pure effects from the Supreme. And we, from the People's Parliamentary Group and from the Government of Galicia, will also not accept what the Socialist Party and other opposition forces are asking us to do. Because you, in a fearless and irresponsible way, are asking for nothing more and nothing less than leaving out most of the Greek mussel. [[Murmurs.]] Because you in point 1 are asking that 86% of the megallon we produce today in Galicia, which is equal to Greek than what has the designation of origin, we can't market it; that's what you're asking, that's what you're asking. Because the sentence does not bind the Galician Union to anything, it binds a particular company and the Regulatory Council, and that's why you have to do it is to stop dividing the sector. They stop promoting formulae like those that they promoted when they were in the bipartisan government, those formulas as dangerous as that invention of Pladimega, which today there are still producers who continue to pay millionaire sanctions and preserve it, as well. You're the only thing that happened to the Socialist Party is that they've always been badly advised, and I think today, because I think they're still being advised by the same person I was advising in 2005, when it was 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008. And they do not doubt that the Union is a guarantee of total fight against fraud. He gave the data a few days ago to the Director General of Fisheries in Commission 8a. And, indeed, you acknowledged that there was a decree, Decree 124/2010, which collected that for a product to be labelled as a Greek raw material must be Welsh and the elaboration must be carried out in Galicia. And I can tell you that the Galician Union is watching, and the data has already given them. And if we talk about imports – which you talk about imports and Mr. Rhodes will come and talk about imports – I have to tell you that the official data – not the data you say – say that today you import 76% less mexillon than when you rule the Bipartite, 76% less mexillon than when you rule the Bipartite – the official data, not the ones you handle. [[Murmurs.]] And don't make them believe you're not supporting the Mexican Regulatory Council, because look, you're getting help over the average of what other designation boards of origin receive. Only in 2015 – and you have the data wrong –, 31,000 euros for your operation. And only in 2015, the last advocacy campaign cost about a million euros. He received 40% of the total expenditure for the promotion of all food and feed PDOs in Galicia, 40% of the total expenditure! And of course we want the quality brand to work! Of course we want that quality brand to work! But to sum up, we doubt that the best form is force, to be imposed by judicial judgments. And we defend the PDO. But how are we not going to defend the People's Group, the Government of Galicia, the DOP if we put it into action? How are we not going to defend her? We were the ones who set it up. I already gave him the data the other day, and I can see you were fired at the commission. It was we who put it in motion, but we must not forget that today the PDO's regulation is being brought to justice by two judgments. And we must not forget that in Europe they still doubt that the mexillone can be certified in conservation, and that could speak of an illustrious Member of this House who was a Member of the European Parliament, and it was he who integrated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u137	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u138	...no... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u139	Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u140	And it was he who asked the questions in the European Parliament, and you doubt – after what he said here – that he knew or knew the answer. It's good that Mr. Fajardo doesn't know her...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u141	End, end, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u142	...because I know you don't know her. But, man!, you were a high position of the Fisheries Council, who had responsibilities in that council, at least... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u143	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u144	...you should have met her. Not Mr. Fajardo, we'll be here talking about everything but the mussel.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u145	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u146	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. We will support this motion at all its points. We are totally and absolutely in agreement, despite what Mr Balsairo says. What we're not at all in agreement with is its interpretation. When some Welsh Conservatives began to use in their imported mollusc products, the rest of the industry, aware that this practice constituted a usurpation of the prestige of the Greek mexillion, began to use the term "the yellow laughs", seeking to identify and differentiate their product. Soon the conservatories who processed the foreign mollusc ended up using the same mention as well; an illegality that no one has prevented it from becoming a fraud to consumers and a practice of unfair competition, and all that with the convolence of Anfaco and the tolerance of the Greek administration. The attitude they continued following the approval of the Mexican Protected Source Denomination of Galicia by the European Commission in 2007, transmitting to the companies that the original protection did not reach the mexillon in conservation, was the real work that the Galician Union did: working to make it clear to everyone that the designation of origin was not valid. Interpretations contrary to European legislation, as has just made this judgment absolutely clear. And all to please only part of the conservation industry. Now, many companies are overwhelmed by the situation created by such interpretations. The judgment establishes as a legal basis Regulation 1151/2012 on the legal protection applicable to products with PDO, and the time limit for appeal before the Supreme Court expired on 3 March last without Javimar filing an appeal for cassation, so the judgment is firm and creates jurisprudence, has not been appealed. It is a judgement of the National Court that was not appealed by the canister, therefore, if it creates jurisprudence. A very relevant consequence that brings together the firmness of this judgment is that it obliges the Administration to comply with and enforce the law with the guidelines laid down by the court, which strengthens the scope of the protection of the Mexican DOP in Galicia, to the product being conserved, pasteurized, frozen, etc., and to the exclusive use of products protected by the PDO. In Galicia there are 1,150 certified bats, when there are some more than 3,300 in total, and about 40 companies. The reading of the industry is that 86% of the mollusk that is marketed in fresh and 96% of the canned are not certified. For the Regulatory Council, this fragility of the sector is due, above all, to the permission of the administration that protects the seal, which, instead of promoting the quality mark, has raised doubts about the real scope of protection, by sustaining it whenever it is kept out, against the demand for conditions of the PDO itself. This is the argument that most – or part – of the Conservative employer to defend his right to continue to bring the Greek mexillon to the edge of the Council and its label; that the denomination only affects the fresh, not the conserved or the frozen. Anfaco claims it's a brand that doesn't value the product. In fact, it makes sure that cans can be found on the market with cheaper stamps than those that don't carry them. From the regulator they claim there are other interests, and they don't hide the connection of many large canteens to the production of Chilean mexillion, which is really what lies behind these interests that defend the Galician Union. On the basis of the signing of the European Union's preferential agreement with Chile, a replacement effect of the Greek mexillon has occurred for the imported mexillon industry from Chile since 2007. The investments of Spanish Conservative companies in Chile under this agreement indicate a clear strategy of substitution of producers, short-term strategies that do not address the essence of their loss of competitiveness. But much of the industry doesn't specify the origin of its product in packaging, so consumer people can only check the kind of species they consume. The alliances between companies and distribution chains have marked the dynamics of the sector in recent years. The best tariff conditions, the price of the imported mexillon, the undifferentiated behaviour of consumers and the inhibition of the U.S. in the defence of the Greek mexillon were aimed at consolidating this new situation, to such an extent that the president of the Conservative Patron Anfaco has come to claim that the G.S. is no longer a reference in the distribution channel of his products. In other words, the Union does not defend the protected designation of origin of the Greek mexillon, it does not defend the production of Galicia, but defends the interests of a single employer exclusively, against the product, against the quality and against the interests of consumers. When I'm going to buy a can of mexillon in cans, I'm interested to know where that muxilon comes from. I know you're going to change your taste, the skull and the canned kitchen, that I know, as I know when I'm taking tender Galician in a restaurant and it's made, I know you're coming cooking, it's not crayon, but it's tender Galician, and I want to know you're carrying the tin inside. So you're denying a right to consumers, who know it's what they consume, what conditions, where it happens, etc. So our support for the motion, and we regret that the People's Party continues to implement policies that run counter to the interests of our country and our productive sectors. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u148	Good afternoon to all and to all. The truth is, after the speech of the People's Party's spokesman on this issue, there is little to say. It would suffice to adopt your position, and establish exactly the opposite of what you said, to establish the reality of the sector. You can't realize in five minutes more falsehoods than Mr. Balsairo did. We know about Mr. Balsairo's cars. What we don't know is how he interprets the judgments that make it very clear that what he was doing as a whole of the canteens was trying to sell things that weren't. In any case, even at times he could be a Greek mussel, the only guarantee that there really exists that what is sold is a Greek mussel is that he is under the protection of the DOP. But to come here specifically say that what you want to do with this judgment is that we cannot market the Greek mussel which is not from the PDO is absolutely false, because the judgment does not say that it cannot be marketed, which says that one cannot take advantage of the prestige of another. That you cannot take advantage, for example, of this PDO which makes 11,461 annual controls to certify the origin of the product, which cannot be done with the rest of the mexillon that appears on the lines of the supermarket as Welsh but which in many cases is not. In any case, there is no guarantee because there is no control as exhaustive as the one submitted to PDO. What the People's Party should be is brave and say what it wants. In Alternative Left-Galga we have clear what we want: that the level of mexillon protected by PDO is increased by a mechanism that is reasonable, that a state pushes what it defends its sector. And the People's Party has to say that what you're looking for is to end the PDO and set up other models that have less control. For what? So that the maximum that they have brought to the European Union – a great favor always does the European Union and the People's Party – which said that only a part of the production process of the can be done in the country, can be sold as that country. What does that mean? What the People's Party is defending is that one part of it, for example, is the canned or packed of a can that is already produced from outside, if it is done in Galicia, can be sold as a Greek. That's the ultimate goal of the People's Party. So I should have been brave, come here and say so. We defend this, and we defend it because it's what the employer defends, that's what Anfaco defends, and we defend what he defends in this case the great employer of Anfaco, which is the goal. If not, we would ask the first question what is the situation of the conservative employment in this country. What's the job situation? You can't come here saying that the situation is splendid when you keep it, you've lost thousands of jobs every year consecutively. Why? Among other things, because of these situations. Because if you continue to introduce already developed product, and the final process here is just packing it up or putting it back, with which thousands of jobs are lost in this sector simply because the goal is internationalization, and therefore producing elsewhere, with other criteria and, of course, with less cost. Otherwise, I should explain to the People's Party, for example, how development aid, the development of underdeveloped countries, has served to get Anfaco to install industries outside this country to compete with our industry. That's the reality of their situation. And we, as far as the judgment is concerned, what we say is that it's a lie that it's a matter between individuals. It is true that the judgment speaks of a particular company and of a specific situation. I ask you, why didn't this sentence be appealed to the Supreme Court? Because Anfaco doesn't want to, because if he goes there he loses and hence would apply from there to the conservative set. That's the reality. Any citizen, any consumer organization today, could make a demand, and it would be shown that what is now for one, would be for everyone. And, of course, what you want to do is a political process of incorporating producers into PDO for consumers to have assurance, and also our producers. Faced with this, what does the People's Party do? Attacking these producers in a tandem and brutal way. It wasn't enough for them to go back to the aquaculture law, but they continue to demand that Galicia not be a producer site, but that we simply use our name to sell things that are neither Welsh nor produced in Galicia. That's the only target. So in politics you have to be serious. I ask the People's Party, I ask Mr. Balsairo, if he is capable, to come here and tell him what his goal is. The goal is to promote that policy that says they want to use Galicia to put only on Galician labels, but that the mussel that sells is not Greek, whether it's Chilean, whether it's Chinese or anywhere else? Or do you argue that when you sell something as a German, you have to be a German because, if not, you're in fraud, that's what the sentence says, in absolute fraud, using Galicia's mention to, let's say, be able to sell something that, if I didn't put Galicia, wouldn't you be able to sell? So we support the Socialist Party's initiative and we understand that the People's Party is doing a weak favor to the sector by trying to confront them, because it is the People's Party who is facing them, and defending that pseudo-extortion mechanism that Anfaco is making with the producers. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u149	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u150	Good afternoon, ladies. I believe that the interventions that preceded me are becoming meridionally clear where we are and where others are placed. Mr. Balsairo came here to stage the same scene as last week he staged the most responsible for the Greek Government's miticulture, transferring to the public the same arguments as a part of the oligopolie of the preserve – but not of all – which, of course, has economic interests in the marketing and transformation of the mussel, not in production. But fortunately there is another part of the sector, both extractive and transformative, that bet on differentiation and quality as the only way to survive, because to establish a strategy to compete at a price that benefits some great preservative and the food chains was simply suicide. And that's how they're showing it. He manifests clearly opposing an aquaculture law that betrays them, and bets on the PDO. The latest data confirms this and today it was announced here by the PSOE spokesman, from 14% to 31% in the last year. Some come to this Parliament defending interests other than those of our producers, those of our debuggers and those of our canteens. And on top they do it with lies. You lie like the ones that transferred Mr. Balsairo and Mrs. Counsellor when they claim that the judgment does not feel jurisprudence, which is confined only to a dispute between the regulator council and a mark, a single trade mark, when she literally says that the use of all these references without the protection of the PDO, although its origin is Greek, is completely illegal, and regardless of whether it is fresh or transformed. We therefore see once again how the People's Party tries to confuse the Greeks by saying, among other matters, that it will be consulted in Europe or that the problem will be referred to Madrid to see if they decide for you, when the President of the European Commission has already said this very clearly when he came to visit: when a sentence is only to be fulfilled, and to comply with it is to take steps to avoid further fraud. And there's no more to go to a supermarket and see the shelves and prices to check the reality where we live or see the files opened in 2014 and 2015 by the Council, with a single sanctioning file. Even here if you wanted us to break the aquaculture law, remember? Who wanted us to paste the Aquaculture Law through the back door? Just as today he's trying to fool us with this sentence again, telling us that this judgment means nothing, again complicating this fraud, from a new fraud to the consumer. The advisor is also responsible for the deregulation situation in the sector and which divides it, facing it, with a fully atomized organizational model. And they still have the holy face of coming here and saying that we, the opposition ones, face and divide the sector. All contrary to what happens to the part of the employer, chaired by the largest conservatory, who also owns the largest processing company in Chile. The Council, like a part of this employer, has declared war on the Regulatory Council, and good evidence is the economic support that has been giving it in recent years. There is no longer any need to see the data. We passed from 2012, when they had a subsidy of 48,000 euros, last year, 30,000, and this year nothing. And we're talking about a public body that has no other income. And we can compare it with the huge amounts that Anfaco gives him: in 2014, 9,600,000 or the eight and a half million that they took to the lab, or the two million euros for the Anfaco-Jealsa Joint Unit to design the factory of the future. The same ones who carry the money make it block a part of the sector to prevent the intervention of the Regulatory Council. And while the Counsellor and the Director General are asking for dialogue in order to be able to change the Regulatory Council so as to disengage themselves from the transformation and thus not have to meet the criteria of produced, transformed and packaged here, in Galicia itself, and change it so that only here, in our country, if you label it, only. So since the BNG we're going to support this initiative, and we're going above all to discover and denounce that the PP again commits fraud in the transformation of the can. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Rhodes. For the motion's own group, Mr. Val.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u152	Thank you, President. Mr. Balsairo, I tried to be it, but I have to admit that I wasn't clear enough in my intervention. You didn't understand anything at all. Look, I'm going to try to give you an example taken to the extreme, which I imagine will serve for you to understand what the scope of the PDO means. If you and the advisor Quintana tomorrow decide to move to the village parish of San Simón da Costa and set up a cheese factory, you can make cheeses and sell them, but what you're not going to be able to do is never sell them with the simple mention of that parish of San Simón. And they won't be able to do it unless you're within the Regulatory Council of the Protected Source Denomination of Sink. I mean, you can name it whatever you want, but you can't make any mention of that designation of origin from San Simón da Costa. And this is so obvious to cheese it seems that you are not able to understand it with the mussel. This, which is so obvious in other denominations of origin, you are unable to understand it or you don't want to understand it, because you defend other interests that have nothing to do with the producer sector. And that's why we're in the situation we're in. Because you're defending the interests of a part of the conservation, exactly the one representing your secretary general and the president. The same preserves that in 2006, just ten years ago, it transformed more than 180 million kilograms of yellow mussel, 180 million kilograms, and that today, less than ten years later, it just transforms 96 million kilograms, nearly half of what I've been transforming and dedicating to the conservation. And what happened during this time, Mr. Balsairo? Is the canning industry no longer transform or is the mussel coming from another place? The answer is clear, Mr. Balsairo. I think it didn't lower the volume, but actually the mussel comes from other places. And this is the battle, Mr. Balsairo, this is the struggle, the struggle between producers and preserves it. You are tremendously positioned in favour of a party. We want to defend a prestigious model, a model on which we have references that can be taken and achieved an increase in prices and a certified and guaranteed production of its origin. And that's called "protected origin," Mr. Balsairo. It's hard to talk to you when you look somewhere else, but well, you've got us used to it. Actually, today, Mr. Balsairo, what you are coming to do to this Parliament is hide data, they come to defend an industry that is not committed to the country and that does not demand DOP-certified product to be packed into its cans. [[Murmurs.]] Speak and tell the truth. You speak of a response in the European Parliament of 2008 to a honourable Member, an illustrious Member of this House. But they don't tell the truth. What he doesn't say is that when they did that answer, the regulations that were in place to protect PDOs were a regulation of the year 2006. But since 2012, there has been a new regulation published on 1151/2012, and therefore there is no valid answer to that illustrious Member, just as he does not have his opinion on what you are shielding to say that it does not have to be under the protection of the PDO, because it is from 2003, four years before the register of PDO.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u153	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u154	We all know where we are. We defend the producers and a quality model that defends the origin of the product. You should give an answer to what your interests are. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u155	Do you accept the amendment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u156	I don't accept the amendment. [[Applause]] Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u157	We passed the motions. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. Quiet, please, let's vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We started with the vote on the motion of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, which no amendments were tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Ma Terêscia Paz Franco, on the constitution by the Government of Galicia of a commission to follow up the situation of the dairy sector in Galicia and the tasks it must have. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u158	We are now voting on the motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group on new rules to promote the Council of Galicia in the field of transport, to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Raúl Fernández Fernández, on the new rules that should promote the Union of Galicia in the field of transport. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u159	And finally, we voted on the motion by the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia on the labeling of the Greek mexillon, the financing of the Regulatory Council for the Mexican Source Denomination of Galicia and the increase in the number of existing producers under its certification. It seems you did not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. [[Mr. Balseiro Orol asks for the floor.]] Yes, Mr. Balsairo?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u160	Mr President, we would like to ask for a point of order. We'd like you to vote on point 1 and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u161	Okay, wait.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u162	...the 2 and 3 together, if you accept the proponent, in this case the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u163	Don't you accept? The proposed group does not accept; therefore, we voted for the motion as it was. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Silence, please, silence. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of D. José Ramón Val Alonso, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the labelling of the Greek mexillon, the financing of the operation of the Regulating Council of the Mexican DOP of Galicia and the increase in the number of existing producers under its certification. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 37. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u164	We continue with the agenda, with point 2, after the change of the agenda, which corresponds to the full attendance. The following appearances are gathered for the debate: Like Mr. Health Adviser, on his own request, to report on the situation of patients on chronic hepatitis C treatment in Galicia Like Mr Sanitary Counsellor, at the request of the Eighteen Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, to report on the prosecution of the refusal of treatment to hepatitis C patients Like Mr. Health Counsellor, at the request of the G.P. of the G.P. Galga de Left Alternative. of the Nationalist Block Galego and the G.P. In connection with the prosecution's accusation of alleged reckless murder and prevarication in relation to the delay in the administration of new hepatitis C drugs by Junta de Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u165	To formulate the appearance you have the word Mr. Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I compare today in this House to report on the status of treatment of patients with chronic hepatitis C. Hepatitis C is a serious disease that is essentially acquired by contact with the blood of sick people, and of which most of those affected still don't know or suffer it. The first thing I want to convey is a message of tranquillity. Patients in Galicia, especially those of chronic hepatitis C infection, are well treated. We have the best professionals and the latest treatments. It's a matter that I want to address with the utmost respect and consideration of the sick and their families. We owe them a public health system. A different question is the attitude of certain groups that take advantage of this situation to do a petty demagogy. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I also want to defend the respect that Sergas and their professionals deserve. At most responsible for the public health system, I have an obligation to defend your prestige, which is being attacked. It is therefore to think of them, of patients, and not to use them and their health as a political tool. First of all, I would like to clarify the texts of requests for representation. The appearance, as the president said, was on his own request and also at the request of the Group of the Socialists of Galicia, with a text which I think is not correct, so I wanted to clarify it, which says "on the prosecution's charge regarding the denial of treatment for hepatitis C patients." In no case has there been denial and I will prove it along and wide this afternoon. The question posed by AGE, BNG and Groupe Mixto says that it reports on the prosecution of alleged reckless homicide and prevarication in relation to the alleged delay in the administration of new hepatitis C drugs by Junta de Galicia. It's the first time I've been summoned here and called the Council of Galicia and not Sergas. There seems to be a clear indication. But it must also be said that what the opposition groups do not in any case appoint is what the judge says, that the judge in this case talks about administrative prevarication, and that's why he quotes two Council members as being investigated. We must deal with this issue rigorously and seriously. The magnitude of this disease is significant in our environment. Many of the patients received transfusions in the past, at times prior to the serological diagnosis of hepatitis C itself, when it was impossible to control the aforementioned transfusions. Let us remember that it is a virus identified on a relatively recent date in 1989. Even there are health professionals who have suffered needle punctures throughout their professional life, and also in case of shared use of syringes in drug abuse and other pathways of infection. In any case, in many cases the origin of the infection has never been clarified, and it is also common to co-infection with other viruses, especially with the AIDS virus. Usually, infection is chronic and has a long period of absence of symptoms but a large proportion of progressive and inexorably liver damage, leading to hepatic cirrhosis, or hepatocarcinoma, and eventually to death. The magnitude of the figures worldwide is more than 170 million hepatitis C patients and one million deaths per year, directly by the virus, by liver cancer caused by hepatitis C virus or by cirrhosis. Obviously, the main objective of treatment is the healing of infection, which has not yet been achieved for a high percentage of patients. Besides, the drugs available until recently had significant side effects. This situation has changed with the emergence of new drugs for the treatment of this pathology. So in recent years we have seen a real outbreak of new drugs that have opened up new and better treatment expectations. The first film was produced in 2012, until then essentially the so-called bitherapy – interferon plus ribavirin – was used. From that year on, it's when it starts to change the situation with new treatments called protease inhibitors, and later on, more treatments, more effective and also safer appeared. Thus, new innovative drugs, such as simeprevir and sofosbuvir, were introduced in 2014, and daclatasvir, ledipasvir, ombitasvir, paritaprevir, ritonavir or dasabuvir also appeared in 2015. Beyond this sequence of hard to pronounce names there is a key fact: these new treatments are proving to be very effective. We must remember, however, that in the early moments, particularly in the early days, there was uncertainty while there was no clear scientific evidence. They suppose better expectations of effectiveness and more security. They were appearing quickly and in a short time, which implies an obvious necessity: to make an orderly introduction of these treatments and, above all, safely for our patients, and this in addition to the principle of prudence and equity that should guide us when using a new treatment. In view of this, I have to say, first and foremost, that Galicia has worked with the Ministry of Health and the rest of the autonomous communities with the ultimate objective of ensuring access to the drugs of these patients, like all other citizens, in terms of equity throughout the National Health System. It can be said that, both in the way of managing access to new medicines and generally in the way of addressing this disease, there is one before and after that determined by the entry into force of the Strategic Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C in the National Health System, developed by the group of experts designated by the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality. Therefore, and for practical purposes, in my exhibition I will clearly distinguish the procedures followed in a period and another. Galicia acted, as I said before, both before and after the Strategic Plan. How do we act before that implantation? Prior to the start of the plan, the Galego Health Service, assuming the responsibilities of prescription and evaluation of pharmacotherapy, constituted in 2010 the Central Autonomous Pharmacy and Therapeutic Commission as the internal advisory body of the Health Council. This commission aimed to monitor the use of pharmacotherapeutic resources in the centres of the Sergas care network, including those related to hepatitis C, and to propose strategies for improving the efficient management of resources, as well as quality, safety and efficiency in their employment, as well as access equity, which is certainly important. I want to highlight a relevant fact: this was not a unique situation in our system; there are also other medicines other than hepatitis C which are also subject to evaluation by the committees of experts in the Galician Health Service; for example, growth hormones, medications for the treatment of multiple sclerosis or others in exceptional situations and those that do not have a therapeutic alternative marketed and funded in the National Health System. Finally, this committee regulates and harmonises the criteria for the use of medicinal products with special health impact so that professionals in Sergas have pharmacotherapeutic guides available for the purpose of ensuring the safety of treatments and access to those medicines once included in the financing and in equal conditions throughout the Galician Health Service. In line with the incorporation into the Spanish market and the introduction into the Spanish market that took place for the first new medicines, called boceprevir and telaprevir, and to ensure, I insist, the safety of patients and homogeneity and equality in access to these medicines in the National Health System, the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, dated February 28, 2012, published the therapeutic positioning report called Criteria and general recommendations for treatment with boceprevir and telaprevir of chronic hepatitis C in infected patients, which was approved by the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. Then, on 28 June 2012, in the exercise of its functions, the Central Pharmacy and Therapeutic Commission agreed to constitute a specific subcommission for the treatment of hepatitis C because of the importance it had at that time as compared to the volume of patients. On July 12 of that same year, the sub-commission was officially constituted, and had a clear mission: to establish common recommendations for medicines used in hepatitis C and to follow up the treatments established from objective and independent information and within the framework of the recommendations for employment and priority criteria that are established in the field of the National Health System. From this date, July 2012, all applications for initiation of treatment with new protease inhibitors, that is, those then called new treatments, were evaluated anonymously and on a case-by-case basis by the subcommission to verify that the common criteria established within the framework of the National Health System were met; that is, according to scientific evidence, with rigor, effectiveness, safety and equity, always considering the best alternative for our patients. As for their composition, they were part of the health professionals of the hospitals of the Galego Health Service network with knowledge and experience in the management of hepatitis C or the Department of Health Care of the Galego Health Service. I want to insist that the applications were evaluated anonymously, i.e., they were not known either the name or the prescriber of this drug. They were analyzed on a case-by-case basis to verify that the criteria set out in the framework of the National Health System, which I would like to point out once again that they were, and that is very important, to ensure security, homogeneity and equity in access to these new antivirals. This was one of the objectives of counselling carried out by this college committee composed of optional specialists in the treatment of this disease, which evaluated all possible cases susceptible to the treatment of this disease. In this way, it is ensured that patients who meet these technical criteria receive this medication according to their priority. A parliamentary spokesperson, in which I think it was an unfortunate intervention, perhaps to win points for his possible election as candidate of his party to Galician Union, said they could manipulate the data, but the dead are there. Well, I'd say they can manipulate the dead, but the data is here, and that's the data. [[Murmurs.]] The results of the work of this subcommission are there. In a total of 1,150 cases that reached the Commission until the strategic plan came into force, 1,137 were authorised to treat them and 13 did not, because they did not meet the established clinical criteria. By the way, none of these 13 deniers are included among those who are investigating. The most important thing and what should be clear is that all patients who met those criteria had access to the medication they needed. We're talking about a 99% acceptance rate, although, beyond the percentages, all the cases, all of our patients, are important. A proportion of this calibre makes it clear that the argument that they were denied treatment for budgetary reasons is simply false. How do you explain, if not, the deficit that Sergas usually presents at the end of the exercise? Statistically we can figure out what's going to be the approximate number of patients by pathology, but we don't know the new treatments that are going to appear during that year, and logically it usually coincides with that they're more expensive, but of course they're more effective for the patient, so they decide to use them. In 2015, spending on hospital pharmacies grew by 8%, which would be 43% if we included the investment and not spent on new hepatitis C treatments. Thus, except since bad faith, it cannot be fully sustained that a saving was intended not to authorize these drugs, when the fact is that the vast majority have been allowed. This is the context in which the cases of the complaint take place, the eight cases. The fact that the case is now in trial, and that we have an obligation to protect the confidentiality of our patients' data, limits what I can and must say. However, if I can assert that these patients, like all others, were fairly analyzed by the members of the Commission anonymously; like all others, with fairness were evaluated on a case-by-case basis; like all others, with fairness the professionals verified whether they met the common clinical criteria established in the framework of the National Health System; like 99% of the other cases, it was determined that they met the criteria and authorised the treatment to all, regardless of the final outcome. The cases investigated were answered in an average of 18.7 days, and if we excluded one of them, in which successive reassessments were required for possible serious side effects, the average would be 13 days. Important: they were all allowed treatment within a short period of time. It is also important to clarify that these treatments do not cure the disease, but eliminate the infection. Sometimes the problem comes from the damage it has caused in the body for a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, absolutely all cases where the system does not solve a health problem of one of our citizens concern us. Unfortunately, and although medicine has advanced much, very much, we don't always get success in treatments. In this sense, I would like to recall the doctrine established by the Supreme Court, which, by mid-April 29, 2015 states that public authorities are not obliged to produce a result that is not in their hands to ensure, but that their obligation is one of the so-called "media obligations", so that they will have to deploy a set of activities that tend to and are geared towards maintaining, restoring and improving health. No patient has skipped the protocol, there is no documentary falsity. And drugs – which was something else that was valued and commented in different media – could not be acquired with a public contest, because at first they had to be asked for compassionate use or as foreign drugs before they were authorized in Spain, or, being authorised, they were not marketed. And, of course, if you paid the bill of spending that was in 2015 and it's still in 2006. We firmly believe that things have been done with rigour. We trust justice and we have the conviction that this complaint will be resolved favorably. What we deeply regret is that it has been used for pure political purposes. Nothing else, for the moment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u167	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u168	Good afternoon, Counselor. Indeed, the first thing I have to say is that I regret your presence; indeed it was insulting. And I don't have hepatitis C, but if I get her, she'd be shocked by her intervention. First, to say that the opposition is using demagogy and pettyly this problem is a political indecency, Counselor. Because in this Parliament the opposition brought more than one initiative to give these drugs to those patients, and you, the People's Party, voted against giving them that medication. So petty demagogy was to vote against and come and tell us here that it was given to everyone when you knew it. You're also trying to say that the opposition is attacking public health. The opposition is defending public health and defending the right of all Greeks and Greeks to be treated in public health. Which you deny them with that wonderful, for example, Guarantee Law, which sends them to the private for them to attend to. Not to mention manipulating the dead. You're the one who unduly manipulates disease, poverty, misfortune and inequality. You're the problem of this country. And by the way, you're trying to make a link there between hepatitis C and HIV patients, saying they're very connected. You're lying! Most patients with hepatitis C have no HIV, although most HIV patients have hepatitis C, but you mix everything in a wonderful Pandora box, of course, and not worthy of a medical professional. As for the complaint and the one in the trial, for prevarication against Felix Rubial, to which you received it, giving him the responsibility of the Vigo Health Area, for the sake of what he did throughout his career; it's a prize. That's how it goes to the Vigo Sanitary Area with the appointments you make! And also to the pharmacy manager, Carolina González. Investigated by prevarication and by denying or dilating medication to patients as a result of death. That's what the prosecutor's office says. In turn, the Prosecutor's Office indicates serious professional misconduct for the death of patients in the years 2014 and 2015. We haven't talked about 2010 or 2012, or about all that movie you came to tell us here. We're talking about patients who die after coming to this Parliament claiming that they would be given medication. We're talking about these patients. These are six patients who were denied or delayed treatment, despite repeatedly requested by their doctors, warning of urgency, since they all met the requirements of the protocol established by the Government itself, while negotiating an agreement with pharmaceutical companies for their universalization. The proceedings denounced by the Prosecutor's Office included the establishment of recruitment and financing mechanisms for medication, failing to respond to requests made by the authorities. And it has to be said that up to eight hundred optionals have claimed medication for patients and that they have to insist several times. Don't tell me not because there are even emails; everything will come out when the trial comes out. The Public Prosecutor's Office maintains that there are medical reports on which drug application dates have been changed to simulate minor waiting times. That's already a crime in the administration itself. If it is true that the Administration has changed the dates of medical requests to reduce waiting time, I should certainly resign the whole Government, because that's an attack on life. When doctors began to prescribe the new treatments, Junta imposed on people who were ill with hepatitis C a circuit to obtain a good visa for their dispensation. The prescriptions of specialists had to be approved not only by the Pharmacy Commission, but also by the Central Autonomous Therapeutic Pharmacy Commission. The patients were subjected to a distressing wait, without deadlines, and Sergas imposed deliberate delays and denied treatment to those who met the requirements. Seven months of delay with regard to the state, seven months later than the rest of the state, the Greek patients received their treatment. And all this for the price. The price was so high that for the Galician Union, for the People's Party, it was cheaper to let people die. And they therefore denied that medication. And in the end, the cost wasn't so much, 13,000 euros per patient, but you've changed lives for euros, lives for the interest of pharmaceuticals. For hepatologists and affected people it is important to highlight the price, since the minister of Fairy, Montoro, found part of the increase in the state deficit in the treatment of hepatitis C. A true shame. No one would ever be told in a parliamentary headquarters that the deficit is wrong because of the cancer patients, the hepatitis C patients... It's not the disease's fault that you treat rights as charity. Health is a right. Therefore, it cannot be used to justify a deficit which, of course, does not come around. But it didn't happen to the minister that the real ones responsible for the cost of this medication are the pharmaceutical laboratories. If it is done by the Collective Medical Organization, which accuses pharmaceutical laboratories of setting abusive, greedy and unfair prices. And if free society has suffered this abandonment of administration, we don't even want to think about what's going on in penitentiary institutions. It is estimated that 22% of the imprisoned population is affected; this is more than 16,000 people among the 65,000 interns in state prisons. A Valladolid judge has ruled that it is Internal who should give such treatment to persons entering prison institutions, but has brought the State before the High Court. A real scandal! Negotiating, trapping to see who pays while the patients die. That happened in the penitentiary institutions. And they're people like those who are free; they're people with all their human rights, and their right to health. So, of course, a real attack on these people. But in that mindset of support for great pharmacists, of punishment for patients, of considering disease as unnecessary expense, I don't know if it's important to save lives, to reduce the suffering of people, because they follow policies contrary to what is followed in the advanced world. Thus, in the United States, for example, it is advisable to perform the hepatitis C test to all people who were able to contact the health system before the virus was identified and the measures to verify transfusions were implemented. All studies indicate that it is an option to save costs to the system, since by removing the virus, the progression of infection, cirrhosis and carcinoma, which save lives, in addition to saving the health cost in the medium and long term, and great suffering to patients and their families, is reduced. Besides, this spending is just a shock plan, because according to advance there will be fewer cases of hepatitis C. It's more: this medication gives the possibility of virtually eradicating our country's disease. Only the discovery of the virus, which has enabled safe transfusions and other medical practices, has resulted in the new diagnoses being down by half between 2000 and 2013, from 13.6 to 6.1 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. Just being able to control transfusions! Let's imagine if we can cure and kill the virus as you say! Obviously, you defend the action of the Board, to such an extent that the president of the Board says that this complaint only affects two or three patients. Indecent, indecent! It simply affects a patient is, of course, important, because it's a person's life. He thus eluded his responsibility, refusing that the cuts and austerity implanted should be responsible. It has been demonstrated that austerity kills, it has been shown that the great achievement of Feijóo, the fulfilment of the deficit, has led to a huge deficit in health with tremendous consequences. Your Honor, you also stated that the two high-ranking charges that are charged with prevarication and murder did the job as they had to do, which I understand you are also as guilty as they are. It is no wonder, therefore, that new charges and crimes can be added to this case, such as the former Moscow Councillor, who was responsible for the Council at that time. But they should also be charged every and every one of the Members and Members of the People's Party, who are also responsible for these deaths, because, if they don't remember, on February 11, 2015, you expelled the sick people of hepatitis C who were here claiming their medication, calling on the Government to activate the mechanisms to receive that medication before they died. And if you remember, the day before, a patient in Cangas had died without receiving treatment, he received it so late that his cure was not possible. Every time they push that button, you condemn people to things...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u169	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u170	...and, at that time, when you 11 February pressed that button against giving medication to patients, they were condemning many of these patients to death. Therefore, co-responsibility of all. And I hope that at some point political responsibilities will also be resolved. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u172	Thank you, President. "There will be drugs for everyone, this is not Venezuela," end of February 2015. And what he was talking about isn't coming around today, we have his chair empty. What he spoke of, today's candidate of the People's Party, despised the suffering of months and months of struggle. Just a few days earlier – as you have just said – they were expelled and expelled from the same rostrum, where today are the positions of the People's Party, and by the way, also members of the Platform, to whom we welcome. They expelled us for shouting, for defending their lives, the lives of their families, when the People's Party pressed the button of death, when it voted against facilitating new treatments for hepatitis C. That same month, by pressure, the president, today candidate Feijóo absente, changed his mind. Behind, suffering, months of struggle and even death. Some of the deaths you, Mr. Almuño, put in question, saying you didn't know if they would have happened the same way, although today you've overcome your demagogy by talking about manipulating dead. It's despicable to hear those words from a counselor. Who so spoke – not only you – obviously ventured into that valuation is unwise, but manifests the same lack of empathy as Mr Feijóo enjoyed and enjoyed, and of what Mrs Mosquera had previously sat in her chair; of which the accused and accused gentlemen enjoy, Mr Rubial, Mrs González Created. Then Mrs. Mosquera laughed, as she always did when we talked about a scandal in her counsellor's office, which, by the way, were quite common in this legislation. But she didn't laugh so much in October 2015, when she was discontinued a month after the macro-manifestation in the streets of Vigo, which was also despised by the absented candidate today. You, Your Ladyship, are heir to that policy. I told him at his first appearance: it was cold, it's cold in the council, I don't know if you remember. But I didn't think then that you were so fearful, that you were so far away, as to take up the defense of a management that you gave precisely that advisor in the street. Today you are the greatest defender of the actions – which we have already denounced at the moment – that were delaying the assignment of hepatitis C treatments. Today you are, as Mrs Mosquera was, giving you the face instead of who you have to face, the inhabitant of Monte Pio, of the candidate Mr Feijóo, of that one who is not here today. Cowardly! You are as responsible as the counselor and as is Mr. Feijóo of what happened, for defending him, for justifying him and for defending that disgrace. He came here again today to exercise absolutely the same. And yet the highest responsibility remains unrepresented. The expulsion session was also – I think in my short parliamentary experience – the worst, the hardest I've ever lived here. People who were expelled when a patient had just died who didn't come to that treatment of hepatitis C; families who were crying for the corridors of Parliament. It was a real drama. Maybe you didn't know or lived it, and I don't know what happened to them or felt them, if you feel something about people who press the button against giving treatment. But before that, days of streets and days of struggles to conquer, first, the reach of therapeutic criteria, which, by the way, the entry ones were quite scarce. You only treated or agreed to treat F4 with cirrhosis and extrahepatic clinic and transplanted F3. From entry were the first people, i.e. those who were already in a pretty bad health situation. The criterion was economic, always economic, always economic. Because you voted here and in Congress against facilitating treatment, and you could have voted in favour of producing the generic. We brought the initiative here, brought to Congress the possibility of issuing a compulsory license, and they didn't even want to debate it, they didn't even want to contemplate that possibility. We have also brought the possibility that you would try through the International Health Council to negotiate with other European countries. You have despised everything at all, the criterion was and has always been the economic one. No recommendations were accepted. And the scream was at that moment of relief from the lives of people who understood that with these treatments they might have some option to improve the prognosis of their illness or even not to die. "Treatment for everyone," Mr. Alonso later said, and he tried to sell us a fantastic soft credit: the Ministry invites, the Counsellor pays – that is what was said at that time –. But Mr. Alonso didn't explain to us what was going to happen to all of this, the credit was supposed to be ten years, he didn't count for the deficit, he didn't have any interest. We asked in committee and the Council couldn't tell us the conditions of this soft credit. Then he already had some interest. And at the end it seems that Mr. Montoro, in an alarm of what is called "to have the face of the size of a football field," moved that the failure to meet the deficit target by the state was the fault of the autonomous communities, and above all, the guilt of the sick people of hepatitis C, because their treatments were very expensive and fired the target of the deficit. First, in theory, Mr. Alonso said that the credit didn't count as a deficit, what are we left with? Secondly, the increase in expenditure charged to him or anyone who complains of this increase in expenditure is precisely what was denied here and at the Congress of Members and Members to accept no proposal for treatment to be cheaper, including the possibility of making a generic one. And thirdly, we talk about lives, and I ask you again the same question I asked Mrs Mosquera and the same question we also ask Mr Feijóo: how good is it for you? How good is it? I'd like you to answer that. And I'm going to tell you that the figure you've spent isn't true, that you've even talked about 75 million of yourself in the last few days, then 77; I don't care, I don't know what we're left with. But if you make a minimum division at the price of the final treatment, I ask you, how many thousands of people have, you know, dealt with those figures that you promoted and promoted by Mr. Feijóo himself? You don't even lie well. Probably, the most painful thing about all of this, in addition to the physical real damage to disease progression in people, is surely contempt and lies on the part of those who have to protect their health. It would be good if you also clarified what you said last week that the 19th day had no knowledge of the charges, when the court's notice was issued on April 12th. So much so, because the notified persons or the defendants are still unavoidably resigning, and besides you, even if you wave and shake your head, you'll still have no scissors. Mrs. González Created and Mr. Rubial continue to enjoy their jobs, they continue without resignation. By the way, the latter – as everyone knows – manager in addition to Vigo's privatized hospital. Nor do they cease; you are absolutely complicit in this situation, at least politically complicit, as responsible at least. But, above all, the most responsible is precisely the candidate, which he does not appear, which should clarify why he is defending this disgrace. Why did you deny the delay at the time? Why did we, Counselor, have come this far to this appearance, to this damage? Why did you have to wait for all this? Why? Why do you talk about days of delay when families keep insisting that in some cases they were months of delay? Why have they never clarified us in any appearance as if the files were missing? We asked him here, he reported the Hepatitis C-affected and Affected Platform, and we could never be clarified. Why do people hate each other so much to treat them as Mr. Feijóo did? For two or three, what else? As if they were totally despicable, as if they weren't people, as if they weren't human beings, as if these people couldn't have had an opportunity to have been properly applied and given treatment, as their doctors and doctors claimed, the professionals. And, yes, I also regret your naked interests, Mr. Almuínña; I regret that this Board has an interest in using even these people and their suffering; I really regret the contempt that you continue to maintain today, and I repeat, against the weakest people and those who cannot be here telling them what we are saying today. One day you drove them out of that gallery, probably very soon they drove them out of yours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, Mrs Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u174	Good afternoon to all and to all. And I would especially like to greet the members of the Hepatitis C Defense Platform, and on behalf of the BNG, I would once again transfer our recognition to them for their courage and immense work that they have done to denounce the situation, until it comes to the fact that the Welsh Government, the Government of Wales and the Government of the State have reacted, not on their own will – as we are supposed to say here today – but because of that cry in the streets and that pressure in the institutions, which has caused them to react and that today there are many people who can already enjoy the new drugs. I regret, Counselor, that you come here to say that the first is respect and consideration for the sick and their families, and act after you insult them. You insult them by saying they acted demagogicly and dare to say that the dead are being manipulated because the data are there. You said it, it's taped, we all heard it and everyone we were here. And to respect and consider patients is to meet their needs, and that's what the Government here represents today has not done. The government that you represent here today theoretically, because your highest responsibility, the President of the Union, has no courage to come here to account for your performance, which is the highest responsibility. You don't have the courage to come here. [[Applause]] They're cheating on public opinion saying he's here tomorrow. No, he comes tomorrow because he has a duty to come to answer, he doesn't want to realize anything. Once again they try to deceive the Greeks and the Greeks. And look: the minimization of the facts you did in your intervention, the attempt to justify the injustifiable, the null assumption of no responsibility and much less of regret or excuse portrays the Government that you represent here, shows the moral vacuum of what you are able to do, the null moral vacuum. I have to qualify them as a government of [...], yes, a government of [...], who are aware of the damage they are doing... [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]] [[Murmurs.]] [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]] [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u175	Mrs. Prado...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u176	...and being aware of the damage they're doing...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u177	Mrs. Prado, that expression is taken away.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u178	[...] is he who knows... [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u179	No, I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u180	...that does damage and continues on with its damage.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u181	No, you know I don't tolerate those expressions. He's retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u182	And the People's Party knew perfectly well...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u183	That expression is withdrawn.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u184	I'm making a definition of what a [...]. [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u185	But no, but it doesn't apply to the House. Not applicable to this camera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u186	One [...] is the one who does damage... [[(On the order of the President and on the basis of Rule 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure, this expression is withdrawn from the Journal of Sessions)]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u187	Yes, I know what it is, Mrs Prado, I know what it is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u188	But I can express...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u189	But not referring to the House. I don't like that expression.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u190	Well, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u191	Well, no, you understand me. But he's retired.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u192	Well, the People's Party, the Members and Members of the People's Party, knowing that their action and their vote were going to be harming and preventing the people affected from receiving medicines, they voted against it as well, they voted against it. And the Government of the People's Party, aware of what it was doing, continued forward making deaf ears and looking elsewhere. That's to do harm knowing that you're doing harm and knowing that what you're doing has consequences. Because the votes of this Parliament have consequences and the actions of the Government have consequences. And the consequences are that there were sick people, the consequences are that there was treatment for cures, and the reality is that there were sick people and treatment for cures that made it impossible for these people to receive treatment in time and form. That's to be aware that they're printing damage, and they've done it all the time. That's right, it's in the hemerothecs, it's in the sittings of this Parliament. Because this Parliament had taken initiatives demanding solutions, demanding actions, demanding that this Parliament require the Government to act. This parliamentary group that I represent, the Galego Nationalist Block, brought here instances of the Hepatitis C-affected Platform an initiative that said: The Galician Parliament urges the Greek Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that treatment with new drugs for hepatitis C is dispensed in hospital pharmacies to those patients prescribed by its specialists in the Galician Health Service immediately, their prescription. I mean, they could have prescribed specialists and, if they had done that prescription, they could have received treatment. What did the People's Party, the honourable Members, Members and Members of the People's Party do? They voted against it. Counselor, don't come here today to say that everything was done right and that they were purely medical criteria. No, it was political criteria that you set out to cut drugs, and then you converted those political criteria into medical criteria. On the contrary, it was a political criterion established by political leaders, which is the People's Party, and then it was transferred to a commission to effect them. That was the reality of the facts. I insist: there's no more to go to the hemerothecs. And as much as they try, the story they want to build is a lie, it's a huge lie. They let people die for economic reasons. We have denounced it loudly and clearly in this Parliament, they have been denounced by those affected and those affected on the street, and now it is the court that ratifys it. You didn't want to assume political responsibilities, you still don't take political responsibilities. Well, at least, they'll have to assume judicial responsibilities, because now they have to stand in front of the mirror of the consequences of their decisions. And the mirror is that for the first time in the Spanish State a criminal proceeding is initiated against a health administration; a criminal proceeding for possible crimes of murder due to serious professional misconduct and prevarication. And that says the Prosecutor's Office... yes, it seems that you are insistently denying it, I read it textually, that's what makes the Prosecutor's Office textually... well, that's what you say here textually; yes, you know it's so, you know it's textual. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And he says he makes a statement against Félix Rubial, Director of Health Care, and Carolina González, as Deputy Director General of Pharmacy. Two Union charges, two trust charges, two political charges appointed by the People's Party that were the executioners. But the executioners of the political decision made, starting with Núñez Feijóo, following the previous advisor, and you here today, who came to defend what they told you, Counselor; you come here today to remove what they told you because you weren't even there. Take your chest off and keep defending. He doesn't even have the courage, the first thing he had to do was ask them for responsibilities and stop those responsible, for a minimum of decency. But no, they persist in the mistake and persist in saying that they did everything right, when it is... i.e. everyone, according to you, is wrong: Medical College of Pontevedra, professionals individually, professionally grouped, sick, citizenship, political organizations... i.e., everyone is wrong except the People's Party. I insist that the story they intend to build is false, the fact is that the People's Party did what it did was mercanize the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, who died as a result of their criminal policy – known at this time by the Prosecutor's Office – and they are men and women with names and surnames who, in fact, when in February last year, I, from this rostrum, defended that they had brought out these descriptions and given the drugs, referred to that those affected by hepatitis C who were in the rostrum were struggling because I had just died one of the components of the platform. Because their policies have consequences, names and surnames: Jesus, David, Isolina, Felix, José Ramón, Mary Joseph Joseph, Emilio, and Benigno not, fortunately, because they skipped that protocol you said here that you never jumped, and that the Prosecutor says yes, because of the doctor who was carrying this patient, who sent letters directly, they skipped the protocol and this person was saved, just as they could have saved the others if you hadn't made those brutal restrictions. The statements made by the President of the Board, made by you, Mr. Counsellor, can only be qualified as reprehensibles. In the face of a situation like this, where people died, you dare say that it is not logical to establish any link, that the cause-effect relationship is not determined. You give the impression, because you're soft, that you consider these collateral damage to be amortizable. It gives the impression, with his speech, that these deaths are amortizable collateral damage in his strategy of delivering business niches to private companies and not caring for the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. And people, Galicians and Galicians, they're not collateral damage, there's no death that's been avoided and that's a collateral damage. These deaths were not accidents. Because an accident is when something can't be avoided. When something is unexpected and you can't avoid it is an accident, but this was avoidable; it was avoidable because you were warned – I insist – by land, sea and air.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u193	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u194	In this Parliament, in the street, in the Congress of Members, for all sorts of associations and all kinds of professionals and they didn't want to listen. They didn't want to listen, and I regret that today, in front of whom it's no longer the opposition that demagogicly uses this rostrum to attack the People's Party, but it's already a judicial instance that says that you've had a criminal act with a possible consequence of death, that in front of that act, it's not even a minimum regret, not even a minimum opportunity to apologize and say we're not going to follow this path.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u196	They reasserminate, which, I insist, shows moral restraint...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u197	Thank you, thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u198	...of you and your government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u200	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Counsellor, it's not time to come and inform this House about the people who are taking treatment for hepatitis C in Galicia, no. About what you have to inform us, this House, and of course the whole citizenship of Galicia, it's about the people who died of hepatitis C in Galicia without receiving treatment. What we have to do is explain how they managed access to new drugs for hepatitis C before the ministry finally approved the National Plan for the Approach of Hepatitis C in the National Health System in April 2015. By the way, thanks to the great social and political pressure that was made at that time. Your Honor, what reason your friend, that friend who when you took possession, wrote a letter to you in a newspaper and recommended that you not accept a broken health council just to save Feijó's face, because he didn't deserve it. And see we'll check it out soon, today leave Mr. Feijóo at the foot of the horses. And what was my reason when I told him that you bought a firefighter's suit, because his management at the council would be to put out fires. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, who were right was the Greek citizenship, which under the umbrellas of the Hepatitis C Sickness Association – to whom I warmly greet – were asked in this very House, to its president, Mr Feijóo, the treatment, because it was a matter of life or death. And, you know what they got from your president and from this House these patients affected by hepatitis C? Well, the People's Party had thrown them out. I hope the same doesn't happen today. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, we are faced with the most serious issue that has ever been faced by a Government of the Union. We are faced with the first criminal case that opens in Spain against a public administration for delay in the application of medical treatment, despite being indicated by the specialists and precisely adjusting to the protocol established by that administration. Before that, you come here so calm to face with lies, with inaccuracies; frankly, you don't know yourself or you're a godfearing. But be careful, Counselor, because you in this matter are still listening, but you may end up being complicit if you persist in that defense so determined that you are doing an act that the Prosecutor qualifies – and I read textually – of possible reckless murder and prevarication as a result of death. You understand, Counselor, you and this bench, because it's justice, it's not me, it's not my group, it's justice who suspects that the bad acting of the council might cause several people to die. We don't know if they're going to die or not. What we do know, what we unfortunately know, is that they died without receiving the treatment they needed, so we do. By the way, it seems that the deaths – those you say we manipulate – and the allegations have served something, you've been scared. Yes, fear, it's not that they feel solidarity and feel something for these families and for these people, not for yourselves. They took fear and will finally give treatment to the prisoners, because I remind them that here in Galicia the prisoners and the Welsh prisoners, yes, yes, the prisoners and the Welsh prisoners were not being treated. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, you know why? For clinical criteria? No, Counsellor, no, by economic criteria, because they did not agree with the Health Council and the Ministry of the Interior to know who would pay for this treatment. A mistake of those who kill, Mr. Counsellor, of those who kill. Look, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, my group, already in January 2014, was asking about the new treatments in this House and, since then, we have put forward more than 20 initiatives to try to shift our concern to what we knew was going on. But the People's Party, as always, in possession of absolute truth, and all power, was rejecting all of them, one by one, all those claims of treatment and all those allegations of the delays that were taking place. So you can't deny that you weren't warned, that you weren't warned. And today they want us to believe that the government did the job very well, did everything very well, and you, which was how it had to be done. But we'll see, but until then we could get there, hear, Counselor, people have failed, some untreated, others because the treatment has come late, do you want another clearer proof that things have been done wrong and very bad? Well, look, if you want another clear proof that things have been done very badly, there's the prosecution's complaint. A complaint that accuses members of a government of a possible crime of reckless murder; if the prosecution collects it like this, and you know it. And don't you think you can come here and cover up the deaths and shut up the prosecutor's office with fake numbers, useless excuses and dates. Listen, you tell the platform members that the average waiting time was 13 days. Do you really dare to tell that to those people? That the average answers were 13 days? You speak of clinical criteria, but listen, if it was the doctors of these patients who went to the Prosecutor's Office to report this situation, yes, those doctors who knew the clinical situation perfectly well, and they knew that this clinical situation was perfectly adapted to the protocol. But if you want to talk, maybe this isn't the place or the moment, but if you want to talk about these clinical criteria, these very restrictive clinical criteria, and how, in addition, you were changing them every bit with the only objective, Mr. Almuño, of delaying access to medication. You're talking about 99% of the patients, but when, when, Mr. Almuinho? In February 2015, medical schools themselves and professionals reported that those Galician clinical criteria were so restrictive that most serious patients were left out of treatment. But where do you get 99% of treated patients? You also talk about spending 75 million euros, but let's see, they don't give us the data, as they always do. But the data you're giving, biased, is about 2,000 treated patients, about 2,000 people, right, an average of 13,000 euros. It is true that some treatments at first were more expensive, but others surely were cheaper, especially those who arrived late. Look, this was worth 26 million euros, exactly a third, a third of what Mr Feijóo said he spent. But the biggest lie, Mr. Almuña, is to deny economic criteria, perhaps you don't know the content of the prosecution's complaint. You can read it precisely. And I'm going to read it to see textually what you can read there. Look, he clearly says that instead of facilitating a way to buy these drugs, Mr. Feijóo decided to shift that expenditure to the budget the following year, even if he knew that the laboratory, without budgeting and without the possibility of charging, would not serve the drug. I insist, this is not what I say, say the car. Look, Counsellor, the truth is that Mr Feijóo to save himself the money from these treatments has set up a subcommittee of affins, which have made him a protocol with very restrictive clinical criteria, knowing that if those sick people were so serious if they applied administrative delays, medication in many cases would be late. They dilated the procedure and you saved the money, and all that thought and premeditated, as evidenced by the fact that the Government had not, even, Mr. Almuña, established an accounting formula, fast and safe to purchase and pay those drugs.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u201	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u202	Counsellor – finished – you are here the voice of your master, as indeed I am also the voice of your master's office of the Government that today are accused, but the political leader of these deaths and of all this serious matter is Mr. Feijóo. And, precisely, Mr Feijóo, the President, is to whom we place our responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u203	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u204	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. Good afternoon, Counselor. First, I would like to express the solidarity, respect and understanding of the Members and Members of the People's Group with all those who are ill with hepatitis C and the relatives of those who have died. I, as a doctor with many years of experience, know well the suffering that chronic diseases produce to those affected and to those close to them. Diseases with progressive deterioration, often with few treatment possibilities or improvement, as unfortunately occurred with hepatitis C to very recent dates. But, of course, no personal respect for people who insult, threaten or make public data, photos and names of people to try to coerce them into an unacceptable moral crack. I doubt most sick people share and approve of these attitudes. Nor are they able to understand the attitude of opposition groups, able to use the sick, family and deceased as a tool to try to win a few choices. It is true that I should not be surprised, because one of my first interventions in this Parliament's Health Committee had to hear how the death of an older person was related to government cuts in Vigo's hospital. The grave thing is that this association causes such petty effect to make it a professional person, who knows widely primary care and emergency services. And at this point, I have to say again, that from the People's Parliamentary Group it seems intolerable to us the attitude of opposition groups by ascribing dead to the President of the Board or to the Councillor based on a probable or questionable fault or error of Sergas. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, rigour, and seriousness is what we have asked them from our benches, we think the matter deserves it. We would like to thank you, Counsellor, for your presence in this Chamber and for your immediate presence in the Galician Parliament, despite the tons of demagogy, insults and falsehoods that we have just heard. He compares to talking about a chronic, serious, recent and impossible discovery disease until 1989, to which fortunately there have been advances in treatment in these last three or four years. I also wanted to pretend about the importance of early diagnosis. Knowing the disease, the better the sooner, allows the patient to take care of himself and avoid the progress and complications of the disease. You have to avoid alcohol consumption, overweight and certain foods, exercise and healthy diet. All of this can delay evolution or prevent complications of hepatitis C virus infection from occurring. A disease that killed slowly, leading, in a percentage of cases, to liver cirrhosis or liver cancer. And this is where I want to put in value a reality that I don't hear or read in the media to people who are assiduous to these debates or interviews; of course, almost always the same people. Hepatitis C treatment has as its main objective the healing of the infection, as you have well expressed. Now, it's not always possible to act on the complications arising from the virus infection itself. What I'm talking about was a very clear hepatologist at a public hospital on the radio at Radio Coruña, Cadena Ser, last February. In a program with representatives of the Sickness Platform and even a professional from the Public Health Association, who were not able to make a single statement from this professional specialist. Even the association representative who made the request avoided entering into discussion with the doctor, as he did again last Sunday in another program at the same station. He said about this: "It may seem hard and you have to understand it as a doctor, one thing is the hepatitis C virus and another hepatopathy. A patient who has decompensation of his or her hepatopathy, who has esophageal veins, who has ascitics or who has an ascitic fluid infection, and who is in a condition of major deterioration of his or her he or her he or her function, treatment, whatever, will not improve his or her condition. Because although in such advanced phases the hepatitis C virus is eliminated, hepatopathy is not eliminated. I believe that it is not to say correctly and accurately that people who are waiting for treatment may die in one, or two or three weeks for a delay in awarding or initiating treatment. I insist again that it is often motivated by the laboratories themselves when they give this medication in expanded use." February 2015. And in his personal experience, in patients who had interferon free, 35 on that date, all treatments -- he said -- were approved within a month. Later on, again in the Ser Chain, this recognized prestigious professional and extensive experience confirmed that he had been treated between 1 January 2015 and 31 January 2015 a total of 54 patients – we spoke before the plan – with an average time of 22 days of authorization. He also stated: "I find that the professionals who were and are in that commission discuss the indications and thanks to them some have been able to change." It was presented, indeed... well, it is clear, Counselor, that not all professionals are of the same opinion, nor do professionals support statements from some speakers either. In fact, a complaint has been lodged in the Prosecutor's Office, a complaint in which there is now a particular association between the Hell Platform and the Galician Consumers' Association. I repeat, a complaint from a doctor's association. We can talk about new drugs, we were talking about boceprevir, telaprevir and simeprevir, which were authorised in 2015, for example the first two stopped using and the simeprevir had to stop because there was a warning from the FDA and the European Medicines Agency to ban its use in patients with decompensated cirrhosis. I think that's already a reason to have to change the protocol of the sick. Sofosbuvir has no longer been used in 25% of the patients treated in the plan, drugs with better results and fewer side effects have already been used. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, changes in guidelines and treatment patterns are constant in very short periods of time. You've already talked about the commission and the subcommittee, we're not going to talk about it. As far as treatment with Sovaldi is concerned, three dates have to be distinguished. The European Medicines Agency approved on 13 January 2014. Until that moment it could only be used as a compassionate use and would be free, but it seems, as soon as I have, that Gilead refused to facilitate it on those dates. From the approval you have to reach as a foreign drug, of course with a cost and with difficult bureaucratic procedures. The first November of the year 2014 is when it is approved by the Spanish Medicines Agency. From that day until the approval of the plan can be prescribed, but always following the Administration's criteria guided by the Ministry's positioning guides, and in Galicia with the permission of the subcommission where it is proven that the criteria are met, that there is security in its administration and the equity of access to treatment for all the sick in the various areas. A total of 1,150 cases evaluated by the subcommission were approved 1,137, which makes it difficult to argue that treatments were denied on budgetary grounds. Of the 13 rejected, 10 included interferon. You will tell me, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that the degree of savings represents not to authorize 1% of the treatments requested for not meeting clinical criteria or for problems with side effects or incompatibilities with medications that the patient might take. Of course, it seems difficult to argue that this committee acted with budgetary criteria. You also said, and we have no reason to doubt it, Counsellor, that the cases referred to in the complaint have been analysed anonymously, assessed on a case-by-case basis, verifying that the criteria were met, and all of them authorized. Since April 1st there is a strategic plan at the state level. This strategic plan has a registry system for monitoring and controlling effectiveness and the problems with new treatments, data being sent to the ministry in Madrid. A total of 2,722 patients with hepatitis C have started treatment of their disease since the beginning of the plan, 87% of patients who are candidates for treatment in Galicia at the moment. It's one of the communities, Galicia, which has higher rates of use of new drugs in relation to the population far above the state. The total expenditure in 2015, as the advisor said, exceeded 77 million euros. I believe that all these figures need to be thought of by the Members and Members of the opposition benches, and also by the people who are engaged in denying them, a hard evidence to break. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Replica, Health Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u206	The truth is, I've been in politics for nearly 13 years, I've been in different plenary sessions, and I've never had such a number of insults. I don't know if because there's no reason and when there's no reason the insult comes. [[Applause]] Look, I'm here about data, about reality, and, of course, I'm going to go on with it. We said there's an action before the plan's set-up and the plan's after. I also wanted to comment on how this put in motion. It refers to the development and implementation of this strategic plan at the national level, which was a consensual process, with the prior experience of the autonomous communities, and Galicia, in particular, as I mentioned earlier, had a very important organizational experience that it contributed. But at the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, held on January 14, 2015, adopted, unanimously from all autonomous communities, the seventeen decided that it was very important to develop this strategic plan at the national level to address hepatitis C disease. Even so, in that interterritorial council, the commission was approved to develop this strategy, led by the prestigious Professor Rodés, and also to update the technical criteria that in each case should be applied according to the therapeutic availability and scientific evidence for the treatment of these patients, taking into account, in addition, as I said, that even then, in that year 2015, it was planned to include more new drugs in the existing therapeutic arsenal. Once in force, since 1 April 2015, the Strategic Plan for the Approach of Hepatitis C in the National Health System, Galicia has diligently assumed this protocol. And as an example, at the time that Galicia was implanted, it was the only community that from day one had at the disposal of professionals a log system that allowed them to know the effectiveness of the new treatments, called the HC Watch. A fundamental element for later control, the registry, and having all the epidemiological data needed to know exactly what activity and effectiveness is, what I'm going to talk about later on in this plan. From that point on, the Hepatitis C Sub-Treatment Sub-Commission no longer assesses requests for treatment, since the clinical criterion of the prescriber remains within the framework set out in the plan, the prescription of the therapeutic alternatives contained therein. Therefore, this subcommission becomes an advisory technical commission for the implementation of the Strategic Plan of the hepatitis C virus. The measures taken by Sergas have already begun before the implementation of the plan, including approval of the inclusion in the pharmacotherapeutic guides of the new medicines available for the treatment of hepatitis C and the updating of the criteria for the use of the medicines already included: access of professionals responsible for the treatment of hepatitis C, the treatment registration platform and effectiveness of hepatitis C, which we call Surveillance, and the meeting with patient associations to collect their concerns or doubts to the draft plan, namely the Galician Association of Hemophilia, Association of Galician Transplanters "Airiños", and the Hepatitis C Affected Platform. The objective of the plan is clear: to reduce the morbidity and mortality caused by hepatitis C virus in the Spanish population, addressing effectively the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of patients. So go beyond the mere access to treatments. It includes four strategic lines: one, quantifying the magnitude of the problem, describing the epidemiological characteristics of patients with hepatitis C infection and establishing prevention measures. Two, define the scientific-clinical criteria that allow the appropriate therapeutic strategy to be established, prioritising the use of direct action antivirals for the treatment of hepatitis C in the National Health System and interferon-free therapies. Three, establish coordination mechanisms to properly implement the strategy for the approach of hepatitis C. And, finally, four, encourage progress in the knowledge of the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C in the National Health System, through the action on R+D+i. It should be added that Galicia is part of the Institutional Committee of the Plan to analyse and propose the lines of action to develop in autonomous communities, following the lines of the plan. So, Mrs Solla, this is where the criterion of starting with F4 and F3 was born, the most serious patients, with an essentially criterion, which was what already established the Greek commission, that the evolution of hepatitis C is a slow evolution, and logically the professionals, not the politicians, thought it best to start with those who were more serious, who were closer to a possible death. That's why you used to say it was inappropriate. Treatment was initiated for 2,722 patients, who were 1,859 men and 863 women. These should be added to the 1,137 treated before the plan, resulting in a total of 3,859 treated already 87.41% of the patients assigned to the state plan. 92.98 % carry three groups of treatments, the most commonly used: Harvoni; Viekirax-Exviera (dasabuvir); and another group the sofosbuvir plus daclatasvir. And I think it's a fundamental and very important fact that we're going to add here today, the effectiveness of treatment. Right now, on March 31, assessed after the corresponding weeks have passed, once treatment has been completed, there are 1,149 patients who have already been reassessed and 94.87% of them, i.e., almost 95%, is cured, there is no virus in the blood, which for us is the most important data that can be provided; i.e., there are new treatments and treatments that cure. The patients who would be missing from treatment would be the F0-F1, which at this time progressed, the F2-F4 state of fibrosis and those of 1917 who had a different state of fibrosis, undefined and we are going to reassess. Galicia is now one of the communities that has the highest rates of use of new drugs in relation to its population. In the data from the Ministry of Health, the number of packages consumed in the last year of the new medicines for hepatitis C is 42.35 per 10,000 inhabitants, when the average of the National Health System is 29.27; forty-two versus twenty-nine. Galicia is located 13 points above the average of the National Health System. In 2015 Galicia was the sixth most invested community per capita: 28.3 against others who spent around 10.6. The increase in hospital pharmacy spending in 2015 was 8%, and 43% if we included hepatitis C. In the International Congress – and I think this is a recent, very recent, data from an international congress of hepatology held in Barcelona in recent weeks – it was believed that Spain in 2015 was the sixth country in the world and the first in Europe in the number of patients treated with hepatitis C; absolute numbers, not rates, absolute numbers. [[Applause]] Like I say, sixth of the world. By the way, I'm also curious – but I value it – that since the opposition they've been talking about American health, saying it makes a special crow. It is true that the United States is number one in treating patients – number of total patients – but, as I have to remember – and I think we need to remember in the House – funding is not exactly like ours; of course, here is public funding. And to say that this data is of greater importance at the international level, because out of the 30 countries in the world that have 80 percent of all cases – that is, thirty countries have 80 percent of the cases of patients with hepatitis C – Spain is number 28. Sixth in treating patients and twenty-eight in incidence of the disease. The financing conditions – which I believe Mrs Solla has a small mess that I will try to explain – of the new drugs included in the Plan make it necessary to establish conciliation procedures with incumbent laboratories; a negotiation that is not only done autonomously, has been done at the state level and even European level, so that we are given back part of the amount consumed, because the average cost of treatment per patient is going down as the number of patients treated, called cost per patient, does not leave the numbers to Mrs Solla. The cost of treatment is also the same regardless of the duration of treatment; treatment can last twelve or twenty-four weeks, three or six packs. It's called capping: the cost of treatment is exactly the same, regardless of the number of packs and the time you're late for it. And in 2015 two drugs got the national expenditure ceiling. The ministry puts a spending ceiling at national level and, beyond that ceiling, the laboratory has to blow up what happens to it; with which, of course, there is a significant decrease in the initial cost that is expected for this type of treatment. But today, in 2015, the Galician Union has invested, as I say – not spent – more than 77 million euros in the treatment of patients with hepatitis C. I want to value these figures, these nearly EUR 78 million; objective data against the thesis that they refused treatment for budgetary reasons. I have invoices that they can indicate, which they want to consult without any kind of problem, because the last thing we were left with was to doubt whether the Galician Board would pay the bills. With regard to the form of recruitment, which also comes out at certain times, it must be pointed out that the processing of a ordinary contract contract contract file has an estimated five months' time limit for contract taxation and that, of course, if there are no resources. But it's just that, in addition, these treatments are unique treatments, they're treatments where there's no competition and therefore they can't be treated as an open public contract. In any case, there was, of course, a delay that these patients could not assume. Treatments, as I say, have labs, their specific drugs, and they don't compete with them. Consequently – and this relates to the writing of the Prosecutor's Office – there is no need to process a procurement procedure before starting a public tender, since these are acquisitions by technical specificity. In this way, Sergas centers can have the medication needed for each patient in a very short time. The situation that we have lived through and which we manage starts from a reality that no one likes, nor do you, who have denied it at the moment, or, obviously, us; an intense economic crisis that we have been going through for years and which has inevitably impacted on the system of self-financing. It's a scenario where income dropped drastically and consequently funds, but not in health care. In health care it was not so; in health care the treatment was preserved and, as previously said, the health deficit is the deficit of the Galician Union. [[Applause]] We face a difficult challenge to manage, but, despite everything, as we indicate with figures both at the national and global levels, we are developing a work that, of course, deserves our citizens. These principles on which the health system is based do not change anything: universality, gratuitousness, equity, quality and respect for the work of health professionals. I want to think that we all share and defend these principles; it's something very important as a premise, because it's a joint responsibility of all of us who work for and for public health. So I ask them to help us and reach your shoulder, too, to defend them together. I assure you that this attitude is much more useful and productive than your continuing and unfounded accusation that we do not defend them. And in this, as in so many other things, it's better to add than to stay. Despite the obvious difficulty and possible errors that we could make during the process, we tackle it with solvency and achieve it through the efforts of professionals and managers working in the Welsh public health sector and the measures promoted by the general board and the government of the Union in particular. The fact that the budget percentage for health had risen to more than 40% of the total Galician Union is the best indicator of this commitment to the public health system. I would also like to remind you that in 2015 Galicia allocated EUR 1.241 per inhabitant to public health, above the Spanish national average, in a classification that closes the Autonomous Community of Andalusia with EUR 998 per inhabitant, 20% less than us. The Community, of course, governed by a party which aims to give us all the other lessons as regards social and health investment. Those are the facts. I think they make quite clear who really cares about the sustainability, quality and future of public health. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u207	Thank you, Counselor. We have a round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u208	Mr. Almuña, often the problem we have in this country; I just realized it. The patients didn't go out to ask for medication, it's that in this country we have the vice to walk in large groups screaming in the streets; not to claim anything, it's just to touch the government's noses. We don't know what to do. And the patients with hepatitis C, although one of their symptoms is fatigue, they go out there every day, on a walk; they came to Parliament to set up a mess here. Vicious, vice, because the Government was doing what it had to do. They had medication at their disposal, but they weren't going to pick it up, they came up here to the mess, they were walking down the street, they were going through the drugstores, they weren't gonna take care of it, and the hospitals. But, well, this is a coat of hair! How can you say that here? How can you say that in parliamentary thirst? If they received the medicine – the ones who got it – it was because they set up a real mess, a real social protest, because they mobilized the whole society, because their problem came to all areas and why they brought him here. And here they received what they received: they received the door lock, they received that the People's Party had voted not to give them the medication. That was voted in this parliament! He was asked for medication for all those and those patients with hepatitis C who were inside the parameters, and who were requested by his doctors. Those are the ones who were denied the medication. We didn't talk about cases with other health complications that prevented or didn't advise treatment, we talked about those patients who had the treatment advised by their doctors, claimed more than once. Yesterday in a media outlet, a patient who had been waiting for mediation since 2013 and was given to her in 2015, when she was on the verge of a second transplant. So it's a lie that had been given from the very first moment; it began to happen when it started to give and thanks to the patients themselves who mobilized themselves. And you say you've never heard so many insults in your political life. I've never heard of any counselor – and see that I've heard them here sometimes – come in as you entered, like an elephant in a casket, sharing the right and sinister against patients and against all the doctors and all the health personnel that I was defending and was prescribed for those drugs. A lot about health care, but then you're the first to ignore them and not meet their claims and needs. He says it's not always possible to eliminate the virus, but it's true that you voted for it and the orders were for patients who were in the worst situation, those who were already transplanted, close to the transplant. Because you, when you talk about 77 million euros spent on medication in Galicia and that Galicia is the great pioneer of everything, you don't count there; how much did you save on transplants?, how many anti-rechasing drugs?, how much in other treatments? And how much did it cost the pain and suffering of these patients for months, not knowing if they would receive the medication so they could live on or if they were sentenced to death? All they know is that, when they came here to the German Parliament, what they received was a death sentence; and that, fortunately, and because they kept fighting and didn't stay with that death sentence, they got their medication. You approved the order, you gave the order when you pressed the button so that Ruibal and Gonzalez had done what they did. So, I just hope that the day that that sentence would come out – that I hope it will be sentencing, because it can't be that no one remains unpunished for condemning death, by default of treatment – then we also have political responsibilities, because you are responsible for all this. But it's also outrageous that if you're announcing that Mr. Feijóo will come tomorrow to talk about hepatitis C treatment. He comes to answer the questions – the president – that make him oppose and in three minutes he's going to settle a whole problem; in three minutes he's going to settle the six deaths that are in trial and many more than we probably don't know, because people usually don't complain. And that's where you make your strength. Counsellor, you don't have any kind of justification; the death consented has no justification; the economic inaction has no justification. And I told you about the United States not to put the U.S. health system as an example, but because if there's an example of how to administer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u209	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u210	...this situation through a preventive approach. There are a number of patients who went through hospitals when there was still no detection of blood transfusions and surgical interventions and all patients without a blood test. How much does a blood test cost, Counselor? For me, of course, much less than a life; I don't know for you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u211	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Glaga de Left, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u212	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Centeno, the truth is, he played a hard role and probably the devil's lawyer. It was quite curious to hear them both in the interventions, because they got into contradictions all the time, and it was, the truth, quite... If it wasn't such a serious subject, it would be like a traxi-media. I didn't hear anyone say here that viral treatment changed the previous sequelae or esophageal veins. Tell me, please, the day and what debate, because I didn't listen to anyone. You usually use the arguments offered by people in a demagogic way. You're brave enough, there are people on the platform up there, and maybe you want to tell them what moved us here, about the things they say in the debates of the Being. But curing the infection prevents the progress of the disease, so it can actually save people's lives, and the data given for healing are related to the viral load of patients after treatment. You said here they didn't heal, and the councillor said a few minutes after they did indeed heal. They didn't agree before they came, it's too bad! It's very interesting, Counselor, that you speak of effectiveness. Don't get nervous. We didn't come to talk about effectiveness, but we could. [[Murmurs.]] It would be productive to give us the data, and to give us the data related to patients treated, especially patients and patients treated between November 2014 and April 1, 2015, which was actually when the Strategic Plan entered. I referred to the initial criteria because at that time they were so restrictive that virtually no one, unless they were in very poor health conditions, access to treatments. I was talking about F4, with an extrahepatic clinical situation, and some F3, but they had to be transplanted; we weren't talking about people who were waiting for a transplant. At that time, it was practically nobody. And then, when the new criteria came in, it was when, even though the professionals had prescribed as the subcommission said, those treatments were not being given at the rate they should. And that is precisely what motivates the complaint that we are debating here today, which is in the Prosecutor's Office. And I remember that's what we're discussing. The invitation to attend is for that, you yourself have read it. It's very nice to talk to you about the clinic, but if you want to have another appearance one day to explain the dietary recommendations for people who are ill with hepatitis C. However, here we are talking about a very serious thing. You haven't made it clear here, really, that these people are still unsolicited today; that these people are still unsalaried today even though they are charged. He hasn't answered me how much life is worth to you. And I'm telling you that, as far as cost is concerned, it would also be good for you to clarify me why Mr. Montoro was talking about deficit when Mr. Alonso, in early 2015, told us that it was a fantastic, mild, uninterested credit, and that he would not compute for the calculation of the deficit. It's rather curious – you get into constant contradiction – that you finish your intervention precisely by referring to the difficult economic moment and that there were no cuts in health matter, when, precisely, you stated all the time, and the People's Party has stated all the time, that the criteria were not economic. You disagreed, or at least you didn't make good use of your argument, so you didn't properly prepare the intervention. Because, precisely, since Mr Feijóo's entry, we have, in nominal terms, suffered a cut of 276 million euros in health care, only in health care!, which is multiplied when we talk about the whole social investment. In addition, of course, we need to increase the cut at ministerial level, even in nominal terms, and we could talk here about the payment commitments that we have made by 2020, for example by your fantastic private hospital in Vigo. But now we're talking about hepatitis C, the imputation of these charges from your counsellor's office, and what you're going to do. And I asked you to clarify why on 19 you said you had no knowledge of this charge, when the judge issued the communication on 12th of the same month. I also wonder, once again – tell me yourself – how many thousands of people have been treated, according to you, with so much investment, and please, if you can specify me in that deadline, until April 1, 2015, which is when the Strategic Plan came into force. Well, I don't have any more time, Counselor. You think I've got a little mess. I believe that you and the absented candidate are in a great mess, and we're going to see you patented on May 12 in the streets of Vigo. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u214	Despite data and more data that we put here, in this gallery, and – I insist – more than enough hemerothecs, we need to hear again in the mouth of the public party's health spokesman who says here that it is intolerable the attitude of opposition groups to accuse the adviser or the president of the deaths of the patients. I've told you before, BNG doesn't do it or do it to the other opposition groups, is that right now it is done by the Prosecutor's Office, who accuses two high-ranking officials of being directly responsible. Two high-ranking positions, two high-ranking political positions. They're not technicians, they're political charges. They are general directors and sub-directors, who are political officials, appointed in a discretionary manner by the superiors. And when it turns out that we are faced with statements that the Board reiterates support for the investigated charges and respects the criticisms of the patients, but doubt of their basis, i.e., doubt of what the patients say, doubt of what they say... No, this is the hemerothecary, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'm sorry to bother you so much that you pick up the words you say. Of course, dinners, and the media have the habit of immediately reflecting them, what will be done to you! And as they're reflected, we can bring them here so they won't tell us we're inventing them. They're collected in the media! They're collected in the media. When you reaffirm that everything has been well done, what I'd like to know is, if, as they've been in place since the Hepatitis-affected Association, they link their stay in the Government to the result of the judicial procedure with these high positions. If you defend them and say it was all well done, because, indeed, you were... you weren't, but how you assume all the legacy of the Council that represents and comes here to suck, starting with the president and following you... If they defend and assume that everything was well done and that these people directly accused by the prosecutor's office of an act like the one we're here denouncing... If you say it was well done, that you assume that responsibility, and if the result of the criminal procedure is that the charges of the accused are verified, you will have to assume some responsibility. The policies have already made it clear they're not going to assume any. You said here today – I won't have time! – a whole series of questions I'd like to have time to get rid of them. First, they didn't act diligently. It was January 2014 when the European Medicines Agency authorized Sovaldi, and the Strategic Plan came into force on April 1 of the following year, quite more than a year later. We're talking about patients who couldn't wait, who couldn't wait, and it was verified and it's checking that they couldn't wait. After the former minister had also announced in the summer of 2014 that it was already immediate, after it was immediate, because it was not, and there had to be thousands of people in the streets and institutional pressure insistent to react. Not on their own, not thinking about the patients, until they saw that the actions they were doing would really have consequences, they didn't react. Until they saw that they were going to have consequences because it was already a cry in the street what they were doing. So far they didn't react! I told him before and I insist: they want to rebuild history, they want to reinvent, they want to rewrite history, they want to build an account, but it's not true. It's not true the story you want to keep here today. Just like it's not true that they were therapeutic criteria, I told you before. Letter from the Medical College of Pontevedra, letters from professionals, association of affected: political criteria converted into therapeutic criteria. Look, I read headlines to you, "In my life as a doctor I've seen something so vile." This says a professional, not said by the German Nationalist Bloc. Say it to a professional. Those professionals you say here are the ones who guarantee. Say one, others say similar things: "They have let themselves die sick for very serious economic reasons, and the culprits must pay." I read the letters from the College of Doctors of Pontevedra, where they say, "If we don't get treatment, these patients will die." I read to them the letters from the professionals, professionals who haven't just arrived. We're talking about experienced professionals, Mr. Núñez Centeno, experienced professionals! They're head of service, head of service at the CHUS and the other hospitals, they're not just here. So you don't intend to throw balloons out saying that we're here inventing a situation that's not real. Look: "As responsible for liver transplants of Compostela's CHUS, my team and I saw that the serious patients who came to transplant or were on the waiting list were not being given in time and form the right medication. We made several complaints and followed the normal and ordinary path, but it came a time when the delay was such that the consequences were the death of the patients. We filed the complaint because our patients died."
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u215	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u216	That's what professionals say. I'm going to end up here: "We filed the complaint because our patients died." And in the face of this situation, you theoretically came here to account for this performance of the Prosecutor's Office, of this judicial action, and far from realizing this, far from the slightest gesture...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u217	Thank you. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u218	...to the victims of their actions, they continue to re-occur and insist that they did it well. Unfortunately, there will be no time for the court to finish before you leave Galicia, but, of course, unfortunately, your consequences no longer have a remedy for many people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u220	Thank you, President. Counselor, do you dare to tell all those successes to the families of the deceased? You dare? Look, advice, stop lying and useless excuses. You apologize, correct, and tell the President to explain himself, because he is the real one responsible for this matter of so serious importance. So serious is it that it requires explanations at the first level and that it requires caeses. Mrs. Mosquera has already been stopped, so... you're ready. And do you know why this matter is so serious? Precisely because of what you said here, because these new drugs were healing. They were taking care of, Counselor, you said it here! And you denied them to some patients who claimed them by their doctors, and those patients failed. And at the same time, the absent president boasted and put on medals, to land in Madrid, that he had saved 78 million euros. Besides, I have to tell him they're not insults. We're not talking about insults here today, Counselor. What we're talking about today is complaints, not from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which, too, is complaints from the Prosecutor's Office. And I want you to read the exact text of that car: "Unwarranted delay, dilating decision-making and launching of procurement and financing mechanisms in the purchase of medication, violating the commitments made." And more Prosecutor's Office: "The delays in the petitions were in obedience to Sergas's budgetary reasons, they were not medical or clinical in content." And precisely for all of this, Counsellor, the Prosecutor's Office sees evidence of a crime of murder due to serious professional misconduct and prevarication and initiates an investigation. And that's what we're talking about today in this House. By the way, Counselor, tell us if there were clinical criteria as well, those who advised to give the medication to this Lugo patient without going through the subcommission. The clinical criteria met us – you know as well as I do – all the patients who arrived at that subcommission, but it turns out that the Council acted as if it were God, and said: I give it to you, and you live; I do not grant it to you, and you die. Something intolerable! Yes, yes, and now you want to cover this up by telling lies here and trapping the dates of the proceedings in the trial, while the People's Parliamentary Group applauds with enthusiasm. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I wonder if you're applauding the crime, Counselor? Of course, it's a president's parliamentary group that recriminals us to ruin the party he had prepared in Madrid by talking to him about murders. Totally, for two deaths of nothing...! It is the same group whose voice accuses opposition parties – monitoring and control work – of using people's deaths and pain. It's the top! I just don't have words! It's the top! Yes, yes, Madam, the cause of pain is the one who applies the cuts that cause death, not the one who denounces them, not the one who denounces them. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] See, by ethics, by morals, by a minimum, by a minimum, by honesty, you should recognize the truth. And the truth is that the clinical criteria that used the Greek subcommittee were excessively restrictive and that were also changing. And that besides all this was done with a purpose, to dilate, to make time, while negotiating better prices with the pharmaceutical industry. [[Murmurs.]] And they were hand in hand as a result of death, that's the real truth. [[Murmurs.]] Of course, at this point, and seeing the attitude of some of the honourable Members because we had some doubts, at this point we already know the ethics and morals that a decrepit and corrupt People's Party shows, ladies and gentlemen. [[Murmurs.]] But this is the most serious and painful. [[Murmurs.]] They should – I insist – have a minimum of decency to ask forgiveness for these families...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u221	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u222	...to rectify, to explain and to exaggerate responsibilities. Unfortunately, neither are you able to do that. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u223	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mr Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u224	Thank you, President. The first thing I want to make clear is that in March 2015 a proposal from the AGE Group was discussed here, which we tabled an amendment that said: "Let the mechanisms be established to ensure the necessary economic resources to treat patients affected by chronic hepatitis and hepatitis C virus. To ensure treatment with new antivirals of direct action to all patients, based strictly on clinical criteria and under the indication and follow-up of experienced professionals in the management of this disease." And you didn't accept the amendment. In no case do we vote for the treatment of the sick, in no case. [[Applause]] That's a lie, absolutely a lie! [[Murmurs.]] If you want to talk about Venezuelan health, Mrs. Solla, it has nothing else to do with the newspaper – it must not read La Voz de Galicia, if not, I don't think it will dare – the report by La Voz de Galicia this Sunday. [[Murmurs.]] There you have the realities and the misery of your policies. It's clear there, and I've explained it well. [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand, the subcommittee... yes, no, no, you don't care and you've changed your subject... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u225	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u226	Yes, yes, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u227	With regard to who is in the use of the word as it was with whom it had previously intervened. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u228	On the other hand, the members of the subcommittee now turn out to be publicly defended by the spokespersons of the platform. Now it's Mr. Feijóo's fault, the elections seem to be approaching. Of course, there are a number of issues that are hard to understand. Why has this reaction occurred against counseling in the case of this disease in Galicia and not in other autonomous communities of the state with much less per capita spending than in Galicia? Is it for the same reason that there were only platforms for meningit B in Galicia, when there are four autonomous communities with much more incidence and much more mortality than Galicia? Why was there so much interest in the massive use of Sovaldi, when it was a very recent drug, with little experience, approved by the Spanish Agency in November 2014 and what was intended to sell at that time 90,000 euros treatment? [[Murmurs.]] We're accused of defending pharmaceuticals. If we defended them, it would sell to 90,000 euros, and I don't think it's done, right? Would it have anything to do with the imminent appearance in the market of new products that are more effective and at a lower cost? [[Murmurs.]] I'm questions I leave in the air, whose answer is possible one day we know. Now everything is known. Even very hungry juridical associations are these days in the mouth of all of us, and in the media, knowing the pure interests and delicious practices they allegedly carried out. [[Murmurs.]] With regard to the prosecutor's report, I find it surprising and difficult to understand...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u229	Quiet. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u230	I didn't talk about anybody else. I'm talking about Clean Hands.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u231	Quiet. Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] No, no, no, no. No, no, just a moment. [[Murmurs.]] Quiet, please. [[Murmurs.]] Let's respect who's in the use of the word as it was previously done. This interrupting doesn't work. [[Murmurs.]] Silence! [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Sánchez, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u232	May I continue?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u233	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u234	By the way, the prosecutor's report says something and the prosecution's accusation... in no case has it been said that the judge has not admitted that complaint for murder. That also seems to be deliberately hidden. I never believed, in 35 years of profession, that one could think that a health professional commits conscious and intentional acts to cause harm or death to people. Of course, he indigerates me and surprises me with that accusation. We may be wrong..., we can act with imperence, recklessness, even negligence; but I can't believe that no professional can make a conscious and intentional decision – I repeat – to harm the health and cause the death of a person. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] I could understand that there were errors in the administrative processing of the proceedings, we talked about 1,150 files evaluated by the subcommission. It would be possible, though undesirable, and could even generate some kind of judicial action. Counsellors and investigators deny it, and I don't have to doubt them. Of course, we respect the presumption of innocence, and it gives me the feeling that you don't. They will declare last morning and we trust that this matter will be clarified quickly. [[Murmurs.]] If you review the prosecutor's report, at least in three cases that appear in that report – which is eight, and now seems to be six – in three cases the medicine has been administered or authorised in less than two months, which is what the protocols asked for. And to talk about the issue of withholding payment credit, I'm not an economist, but explained to the advisor that it would be much slower to make a contest, which can't be done because there's only one medicine of each type. To me, since we started talking about this subject, the song Galicia cannibal from the Resentees comes to my head. It gives me the feeling that behind this complaint there is a certain degree of resentment and that an attempt at political cannibalism is being made, trying to devour people with public charges. The current manager of the EOXI de Vigo and the Cunqueiro Hospital, who is doing a commendable job by putting into operation a new and large hospital with very good results. By elevation, to the new health adviser, an efficient person and with good relation to the various public health collectives in Galicia. [[Murmurs.]] And, of course, President Feijóo, to undermine his figure in front of the next autonomous elections. It seems that the President's decision to resubmit himself did a lot of damage to the opposition's benches. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Finished as I began, Mr. Counsellor, maximum respect, solidarity and understanding with the sick and their families. They're really the ones who deserve it. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u235	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Shut up, Mr. Counsellor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please. Silence! [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u236	I want to finish as I began, and my words were to treat the sick and their families with the utmost respect, which are the ones who have suffered the situations and continue to suffer them. We, of course, respect them deeply and will continue to work so that the conditions of disease in Galicia are as small as possible. [[Applause]] But we also believe in justice, and we believe that, of course, they have to speak to the people investigated and give the reasoning. Mrs. Solla wondered if it was the 18th or the 11th day. What I said was the truth, but unfortunately, I had known that car for three months before, without their knowledge of it. That's right, but we really believe in justice deeply. The subcommission members were eight recognized professions of prestige, not friends of anyone, as opposition people have qualified. Committees of affins no, individuals of recognized prestige who, unlike others, have given treatment to patients with hepatitis C and who know perfectly well each of the problems patients have in the disease and also the side effects of these drugs. And there they were working, out of their working hours, so that universality, equity and, above all, the safety of the Greek patients were as best as possible. That's why I think it's worth a recognition for them. It also says that the Medical College of Pontevedra is named again and again. I am a college of Pontevedra, and on this occasion I do not agree with the letter he sent, in February 2015, the Secretary General to the then General Director of Health Care, who said: "In Galicia restrictive criteria are being applied which are the same as those established by the Ministry of Health. The same ones that the Ministry of Health has issued. But different to those who, for example, apply the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, which in turn breaks the equity criterion within the National Health System." This is a textual paragraph, because the headline was given here but it was not read. And I say I think you're wrong. First, he recognizes Galicia's compliance with the protocols of the ministry. I think that's positive, I don't know if it's negative. For me it is positive, because we have shown that with the criteria of the ministry, and with all the involvement of autonomous communities, we are the sixth country in the world, and the first of Europe, in treating patients with hepatitis C. But it also says Catalonia is doing better than Galicia, and I think it is a mistake, because the per capita investment in hepatitis C in Galicia is 28.03 euros, and in Catalonia it is 21.7 euros less. And in relation to population-investment, Galicia 116.35, Catalonia, 87.6. So I don't think it's even comparable to the attitude of the Autonomous Community of Wales to Catalan. That's why I say I think we have to debate with data and not with insults. I have here the number of insults that led us to this bench. No, I have them, I can tell them all. [[Murmurs.]] Yes, I have them written down because, the truth – as I say – is an endless laugh. But the important thing, and what we have to explain... indecent, contempt, fear, psychopath, fear, fireman, delicious, criminal... all this came out here. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] But we're going to the patients' interests, and I'm saying that the data is here. [[Murmurs.]] [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Galicia is now one of the communities that has the highest rates of use of new drugs in relation to its population. As I pointed out in the first intervention, according to the Ministry of Health, in the last year, the number of packs of new hepatitis C drugs is 42.35 per 10,000 inhabitants in our community, while the average is 29.27; therefore, we are 13 points above the national average. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They've been treated...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u237	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u238	...in Galicia...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u239	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u240	...about 4,000 patients...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u241	Quiet, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u242	...from 2012 to the present, until 31 March; 1,137 prior to the approval of the Strategic Hepatitis C Approach Plan, until April 2015; and 2,722 from 1 April to 31 March 2016, which we have the latest data. There are those who, speaking in the light, have questioned these numbers. It's common that when you provide data that can qualify as good, the only argumentation is that they're manipulated. The reality is that there is a computer application, a record, from which data are made available to the Ministry of Health, and that data is collected by professionals at the time they prescribe them. So these are official, verifiable and obtained data from an application that is covered by medical professionals. The second thing is how the treatment decisions were made. Well, all the decisions that were made, or are made, in the case of hepatitis C treatment are purely clinical, not budget decisions, as some have hoped. The figures are clear, it cannot be assumed that they are rejected for budgetary reasons when it is true that the vast majority is accepted. Mrs. Prado, you at parliamentary headquarters told me, on the occasion of the vaccination of meninxitation B, that I hadn't put myself behind the clinicians, that the decision of vaccination was political and that I had to make that decision. And now he says we make political decisions. No, Mrs. Prado, we didn't make political decisions, they were ethical and clinical decisions. We do apply that. If you ever rule, the criteria will likely vary. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, the decisions on the treatment to be followed are set by Sergas's optionals and according to clinical criteria. Since the strategic plan was approved, directly; and before, with the authorization of the subcommission of hepatitis C. This subcommittee consists of professionals from Sergas hospitals, five doctors and a pharmacist, who are among the best experts in Galicia in the treatment of this disease. Among its functions was the establishment of common employment recommendations for medicines used in hepatitis C and the follow-up of treatments established from objective and independent information and within the framework of the employment recommendations established in this regard in the field of the National Health System; that is, to try to ensure equity and security in these treatments. Their decisions were based on clinical criteria and not on other kinds of reasons. The files that were taken to this subcommittee were anonymously done, not knowing the patient's data, nor the hospital of origin or the professional who proposed the treatment. I remind you of the data: from the beginning of its operation, the subcommittee has evaluated 1,137 treatments favourably. I would like to point out again that all the cases collected in the prosecution's complaint have been authorized by the subcommittee. They only refused 1.150, 13 applications, 1.1%; and 10 of them corresponded to treatments that included interferon, which is a drug that has had adverse effects on many occasions, was the first stage of treatment, as we said, between the farxanes since 2009 and 2012. The processing of the files in the subcommission was very fast, with response periods of between five and fifteen days; with agility, except, as I said, in one case, when there was a reassessment for serious side effects that could lead to this patient. As for the denunciation of the subject matter of debate, I have to say and express my greatest respect for justice, but also for the professionalism and honorability of these professionals, and to say that what they will declare next Thursday will be for an offence of administrative prevarication, not for reckless murder, as the opposition does not tire of repeating throughout this entire afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] It's about dealing with this issue as what it is, a health problem and not a sort of partisan battlefield. For our band, we will continue to do what we consider most opportune. The people investigated are two excellent professionals who have been working for many years to improve the health care we receive from all the Greeks. Our professionals made no manifestly unfair and wise decisions. Spanish patients, especially the Greeks, hepatitis C and any pathology can be calm because we have excellent specialists, the best treatments and the best organization. [[Applause]] And I'm done with the data I gave, in case Mrs. Solla didn't understand it. 95% of the patients treated have no hepatitis C virus after the rest period after treatment, 95%. Obviously, esophageal varicose veins, liver fibrosis, and any other complications do not cure this treatment. For us, healing, elimination of hepatitis C virus in 95% of patients is a success of the Spanish and Greek health system. And anyway, we're going to keep working, because within the Ministry's strategies, it's also protocoling crossbreeding. And, of course, the intention of the health system is to eradicate this virus from our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u243	Thank you, Counselor. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández asks for the floor.]] What do you want the word for, Mrs. Solla? You were in the debate. So, what does the word mean?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u244	On the basis of Article 76.1, for Mr Centeno to withdraw the charges made on the pure interests of this Member, from the opposition Members or even from members of the Hepatitis Platform on pharmaceutical-related interests and comparison with Mans Cleans. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I demand, please, that you withdraw from the debate and therefore... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u245	I think it was part of the debate, but it didn't have that impact. No, no, it doesn't. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u246	We continue to be full in point 4, not legal proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the working conditions of the public company Seaga, which carries out work to prevent and combat forest fires
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u247	This motion for a non-law amendment by the Socialist Parliamentary Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u248	To formulate the proposal not of law, Mr. Fajardo Recoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u249	Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is that one never ceases to be surprised at the degree of discretion of the Bureau of this Parliament, which is able to allow a Member to compare an association of the sick... I have not finished, I know what I say and I take what I say. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But I mean, if you let me finish, if you don't get so angry... It's okay, quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u250	Quiet. And go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u251	I don't know what's going on with you, but I'm going to have to look for a "antifajard" vaccine, because every time I go up this rostrum, it seems like you're going through a sarpled somewhere. Will you let me finish? [[Applause]] Because Parliament's leadership allows anything, as long as the People's Party does, like now...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u252	Mr. Fajardo, I am allowing you to intervene without having to deal with the matter of your initiative, so go to the question, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u253	But you don't know how I'm going to do what I'm talking to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u254	"You" isn't, the Presidency is telling you to go to the point.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u255	The President of the Chamber in office doesn't know how I'm going to continue. All I'm saying is that at this moment one is not surprised how some Members have been called to order, expelled, taking away their 15 days' pay for things that are absolutely within the political debate, assumed, but, on the other hand, the People's Party can accuse an association of sick people affected by hepatitis C of being like Clean Hands and here nothing happens. It's just a complaint I make because it seems to me like a double rod of absolutely unacceptable measurement. Absolutely unacceptable. [[Applause]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] From there... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u256	Quiet, please. Continue, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u257	No, to be me the rude, here are some things that have noses. With all the appreciation for those who say that sort of thing from there. Excuse me? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u258	Continue, please, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u259	You're a lot like Andrea Fabra. Yeah, that's right, that's right. I continue. We have an initiative that has to do with one of those things that the People's Party says to respect, but soon it does not respect, which is the law; and how labour regulations raise a number of issues that must be respected, at least by a government, but which then the People's Party never does. And it has to do with the employment situation of Seaga workers, which, as you know, was created in 2006 to meet all kinds of works, jobs, performances and services in relation to forest matter and especially fire prevention. [[Murmurs.]] President, no, you can't...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u260	Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u261	There's no way to talk to that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u262	Quiet, please, Mrs. Oubina.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u263	I was already with five calls to order, but here... I'm trying to go on, if I'm allowed from the angry popular party bench, which seems like you don't want to listen. I continue. We said that this situation of the workers is certainly regrettable, and it has to do with the lack of labour rights, because it is a collective of more than 500 workers to which today no collective agreement is applied and therefore they have to deal with conditions not only economic but labor less than those of the same type of work. Even that maximum of "the same work, the same salary, and the same work, the same conditions" does not apply, for example, to the direct workers of the municipal quadrilles or the Union itself. And so we all want to dignify these workers, because their dignity in their job also means improving service, but above all ensuring their safety. You have to see, for example, how these workers, through internal regulations, are forced to work on maintenance for eight hours and then continue the four more hours of the day what it is, let's say, the extinguishing of fires. This situation means a lack of freshness and reaction capacity that can cause accidents that are unacceptable in an irregular agenda that should not be allowed by the Public Administration. This protocol requires that these prevention and extinction tasks be simultaneous and put at risk not only their safety, but those who have to be treated against the fire. Therefore, in our initiative, we suggest that their work rights must be recognised and therefore at least the Fifth Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union should be implemented and, above all, that they should try to improve their terms of employment. They had to go to justice so that if they were to be recognized by the qualification of discontinuous fixed assets, which, as you must know, is a model of recruitment that ensures that a person is fixed by a company, in this case of Seaga, but that he does not have to develop his work every month of the year, but he has to do it when he is called to work. What happens is that in the same type of contracts, legislation regulates that that call should be, at least, usual, it must always be, more or less, in the same date environment, which in this case is not allowed, it is not. They never have the security of when that call will be made. And besides, in many cases they only reach three months a year, which means that these workers who are forced to maintain their working relationship with Seaga – because if they don't, they would lose, if there's a call, their condition of discontinuous fixeds – it turns out that they only work three months a year. And so when they stop working, they have no right to unemployment benefit. So we understand that what we have to do is to increase the guaranteed working months each year so that there is security for these workers in maintaining their living conditions, surely in terms of access to, at least continuously, a contribution or a level of assistance. And for that it would be good – we put it on our initiative – to increase contracts to nine months. But we're willing to accept a transaction with the amendment proposed by the Socialist Party, so let's say that a duration beyond the usual three months to this day, but that may be, of course, around nine months, even though it doesn't have to be exactly those nine months. So what we're talking about is to dignify a group of workers who are being seriously affected by a policy of the People's Party that intends to change or expel these workers by making their working conditions impossible for them to move to patrols, to municipal patrols, which, as we all know, are used by the People's Party for the political clientilism of the deputy mayor, who has a job scholarship for two, three, four months throughout the year to put the affins in what the extinction work is, and eliminating, for example, the capacity of professionalization and continuity of personnel absolutely necessary and that must of course have training. When, for example, in the last call made last year, people who went to these municipal patrols were specifically asked not to have previous experience, which implies, of course, absolute aberration in terms of safety and health at work and also in terms of the safety and health of the people cared for through the extinction of fires. And one of the last issues we've brought up is that the law is respected. Once again we have to bring the whole of the People's Party to comply with the law, in particular Law 16/2010 of 17 December, which in its transitional provision sixth says in a very clear way that a two-year transitional period is established from 2010 for the Galician Union to negotiate with staff groups, staff representatives, these companies and the Union their acceptance of the Galician Union's employment agreement and thus to equate labour conditions as well as employment conditions as contractual and, above all, safety and health with the Joint Union's workers. This was 2010, we're already in 2016 and we see how, despite having passed the two years that were proposed in time for this to happen, we haven't even given a meeting to transfer this collective to what has to be a labour policy that gives a minimum of guarantees. So our proposals are very clear. It has already been brought to this plenary session on another occasion, it has already been discussed in committee, but we hope that the People's Party will now understand that it is time to comply with the law. If we do it now, let's do it, in addition, because soon we'll have to start bringing this plenary back in a quick and agile way the call for its workers. It's not worth calling the workers who are designed for maintenance and extinction at the moment the fires are produced, but it has to be very early so they can do that preventive work. But we do not want the prevention of extinction to be shared in the months of July and August, but they can be called upon to work beforehand to ensure that they have more months of work and, above all, that they achieve certain quality in prevention tasks and that when months of greatest difficulty and risk of fire arrive, the situation of our mountains is different. We are faced with a fair job claim, we are faced with a request that work rights be recognized and that an equalization be made of workers, but above all that the Staff Regulations of Workers apply, which, in spite of the cuts, of the cuts of the People's Party in continuing labour reforms, recognise the need for workers to have the same pay perceptions for the same work, which is not given to these workers in respect of the staff of the Union, even of the municipal brigades. Therefore, hoping that it will be supported by this House's majority group, this initiative, more and more thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u264	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the Socialist Group of Galicia, Mr García, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u265	Thank you, President. We agree with this initiative, as we have already expressed it on several occasions both in the full and in the commission, an initiative that raises the demand of Seaga workers; demands, indeed, so reasonable and obvious as to comply with the law, that the collective agreement is being complied with, even though we are already used to the committee, even by leaders of the People's Party and by spokesmen of the People's Party, saying that this of the collective agreement also meant nothing. The recognition of the work done to then opt for recruitment squares in the Galician board's own service is true that it is of little value to them, since these squares are not covered by any year. And there's something as obvious as temporarily separating prevention from extinction. I mean, how are we going to do prevention in the months of July and August? This, which is so reasonable for anyone, for the People's Party and for the Government, is not so and therefore we coincided with great features. And we agree – and I will focus on the other – not just because it is a fair demand for workers, but because it is impossible or inevitable to address this problem that Seaga workers are suffering if we do not refer to the global framework of the fire prevention and extinction policy carried out by this government. And, therefore, we clearly state that those works that Seaga did and that Seaga demands to fit perfectly into the policies or philosophy or model of fire prevention and extinction that the Socialist Party shares. And that's why, in addition, in that sense, we agree with the demands of the workers. This is quite simple – I say to those who are not so involved in the details –. The People's Party comes to power and makes a political decision to dismantle the fire prevention and extinction service, the model as conceived, and to create another distinct model based on two fundamental things: in the creation of municipal brigades and the privatization of certain aspects, such as helicopter brigades, through a private company. So logically how resources are limited and resources are what they are, you have to dismantle the model that existed. And this is a political decision that the People's Party makes. So we can't have contracts, and that's why I refer to that in the amendment tabled – which I suppose we will achieve a transactional, or, somehow, reflect that –; that is, in what we are not or what could be undecided, and that's why we don't want to give rise to bad interpretations, is that the initiative and Seaga workers are asking that all the workers who are hired by Seaga become also hired nine months. This is impossible and makes no sense if there is no system-wide reorganization, and somehow the whole system is reorganized and all the confluence of the service itself as well as Seaga workers as other devices. And neither without that reorganization can we say so succinctly – as can be misinterpreted by that initiative – that it has to be the 300 or the 400 or the 500 workers in their entirety who are hired in nine months, or in four months, or in six months, or in two months. I mean, we'll have to address this reorganization to know how many workers we need, with a model, and also respecting... and that's why I say it fits perfectly into what we've also manifested here on numerous occasions. We believe in a model that has to be, first, cheaper. Indeed, not only in the prevention and extinction model, but also in other aspects, such as renting the media or as on other aspects, this country – even though it continued to govern the PP – cannot spend 100 million euros a year on extinguishing the fire. So we have to go to a more sustainable model in time and that's not it. A model based on prevention – and in this they agree with the demands of Seaga – and, first, as a fundamental axis of that prevention, in the occupation of the territory through agricultural, livestock and forestry activity. We must invest more in that active prevention than in generating activity, and we must also count on or complement this prevention with a public service – which is where the work of Seaga workers is fully integrated – is public, centralized and fully dependent on the Council, or the Council of Galicia. So be more efficient and more professional. And someone's talking about it in the first year, and so we've even had discussions with other opposition groups, not against the municipal brigades on a system basis.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u266	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u267	It was opposed from the first year, when it became evident and made itself clear clearly that for nothing the service was more efficient and, above all, it was much more expensive for the Greek contributors. So in that sense goes our amendment, I suppose we can manage. The only thing we wanted to make clear, because it can be misunderstood, is that this doesn't mean that, apart from what we have, we have to have Tragsa workers nine months hired at that point, but it would have to be within a reorganization of the whole system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u268	Thank you, Mr. García. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u269	Thank you, President. A few weeks ago, we had a great media deployment, when the Board made the presentation of a given number of bombs to the municipalities and forest districts to contribute to this fight against fires. Of course, we've been campaigning for quite a while now. And this approach to material won't be for years and times when it's been claiming more means for the prevention and extinction of fires and improvements to employees. And the improvement of the workforce is the subject that brings us: solving the problem of Seaga. Despite being Seaga a public company – although it works as an ETT of the administration's forest fires – and there are no functional differences between the brigades hired directly by the Council and Seaga's dependents, the differences in labour rights that condemn Seaga's staff to an improper working precariousness of a public administration of the twenty-first century are maintained. There is no need to justify the right of Seaga workers to apply V. Collective Staff Convention of the Galician Union, since they are subject to the basic regulations of the Staff Regulations of Workers, which means clear discrimination in relation to other workers and workers who provide services to the Galician Administration, either directly or through private companies. For this reason, the trade union organisations present in the General Bureau of Public Employees and Employees for the implementation of this fifth collective labour force convention of the Galician Union to this company should be convened as a matter of urgency. In addition, the duration of their contracts should be extended to nine months – if we consider that they should work for the nine months – by performing extinction tasks during the high-risk period of forest fires and prevention work and all kinds of jobs entrusted to the company for the rest of the contract time. And that of Seaga is scandalous within the service, which today continues to have totally fragmented and increasingly privatized and less professionalized devices, with the absence of a single command and also with a lack of coordination that is detrimental to effectiveness. The recognition of the time spent in Seaga in access to the Galician board recruitment lists, the experience in this work, we believe it is fundamental, especially because of the risk and the determined knowledge it entails. But we only see the total deprofessionalization of this device, in which the experience of professionals and professionals is not taken into account, and they use different listings without a uniform selection criterion. A stable staff is not maintained to ensure the professionalization of these teams. The precarious working conditions endanger their lives, with excessive days, up to exhaustion, obsolete machinery, temperature variables, lack of material means, such as the PPE needed to act against fires and their proper use – even in months as in August, that the Council does not offer to all staff – or obsolete means. It fills the equipment for workers and mask workers with filters suitable for monoxide or carbon dioxide and other series of components or substances that emanate from combustion, from forest fire. You cannot work under these conditions. Clearly, weather conditions must always be taken into account throughout the year, because the risk of fire is there. We need to talk about measures, that we don't have a prevention service working on the mountain in the low-risk months, as in mountain cleaning as a precautionary measure. And it's very important to know about the fire, about its behavior, about how to protect its own life and its ally during the act of extinction. Forest heritage, biodiversity cannot be valued. There would be many fewer incendiaries if the mountain were a value for the Union, if we had a government that had guarded the care and rational exploitation of the mountain. And as a result, these policies also endanger the life of the neighborhood near the fire, the life of many animals and plants, and also increase the area affected by the fire. It is also very important, within the policies that should lead to Junta, the education of the population in the area of emergency, because there is a need for a network that develops these competences with the same level of involvement and quality as the operational response itself, because citizenship is essential to minimize the consequences, especially in those rural areas that are far more remote and those that take much longer to reach so that professionals themselves can make the extinction of the fire. We're going to support AGE's non-law proposal because we understand that all professionals must have minimum conditions for work, for the development of their work, and for their life. And we also understand that it is very important, within the policy of fixing the population, this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u271	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Fajardo has already said in his speech, this initiative has already been discussed on different occasions and in different formats in this Parliament. We could say that what gives rise to this initiative is what we have already defined on some occasion in this Parliament as "the Feijóo demolition brigade", which consists essentially of demolishing all those policies that aimed to promote structural changes in this country and, of course, all those policies that had left some positive vestige of the existence of that damn bipartite that ruled this country for more than three years. Although the previous interventions focused mainly on the labour aspect of this concrete demolition policy by Mr Núñez Feijóo, we could say that this initiative has two aspects. On the one hand, the strictly labour component, which has already been mentioned here, of workers from a public company who in practice acts as an ETT of workers who work at least three months a year and who, because of their condition as discounted layoffs, have no right to benefits or unemployment benefits, which on many occasions have even had to return after the months of thousands of euros receiving benefits, for unemployment benefits; workers, ultimately, in an operating situation which, as it has been said, have no agreement. Even the Galician Union – and so we were told by this parliamentary group a director general in a committee – refuses to comply with its own laws, such as Lofaxga, which states that it is applicable to everything known as "tooling administration", to all personnel of that administration parallel to it, the collective agreement of single workers. The director general said they were committed to negotiating a company agreement with Seaga's workers, and they've been almost two years since the last meeting there was for the negotiation of that agreement without there being any other sign of intelligent life in the board of Galicia in connection with this matter. By the way, just like in relation to many others. But there is one issue that for the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is also very important, which is also, in fact, the reason why these workers are in this situation. Public enterprise Seaga was neither born to be a temporary labor company nor was born to be a complement to the fire extinguishing device only during the months of the highest risk of forest fires, during the high season. Public enterprise Seaga was born to be an agricultural and forestry service company, to promote structural changes in this country, to be a company serving the agricultural and forestry development of this country, to create wealth and therefore not to be an instrument of precarious workers. Because the philosophy of public enterprise, and so on, was reflected in the decree of its creation and so on in its own company, was to have a stable workforce of trained workers, with training in rural, forestry and environmental development policies, who worked all year round for public enterprise and, in any event, also with adequate training, to, in the months at greatest risk, integrate themselves into the forest fire fighting device, and not – I insist – into an instrument to precaution. But the People's Party has a model of fight against forest fires completely different for various reasons. First of all, because you don't believe in the organization and preventive management of our territory or our forest space, because you believe that everything has to do with the private initiative, and therefore you don't believe that the Public Administration has to intervene to establish preventive management of our forest space, because you think that fires have to be a great business for private companies and for friendly companies, and therefore there was no concern for them, nor was there any preventive management, nor was there any public instrument in the service of forest policy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u272	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u273	That's why you dismantle a public instrument in the service of the country, the prevention and fight against forest fires, and they don't mind, by the way, carrying out all the minimum and basic labour rights of the workers. That is why I say that this parliamentary group, the BNG, will vote in favour of this initiative. But unfortunately, in view of both the preteritious and more recent background, I have many doubts that the People's Party knows about this, as in many other things, correcting. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Balseiro Orol has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u275	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech with an acknowledgement, with appreciation for the work carried out by the professionals and professionals of the fire prevention and extinction service for their contribution to the protection of our mountains, the protection of Galicia's great natural and environmental wealth, and in many cases also by the effort and safeguard of the heritage and even the lives of people. The device – it has been spoken here – is a large device, Seaga brigades, Galician Junta brigades, city hall brigades and also supramunicipal emergency groups. For which everyone has the recognition of the People's Group in this House, not only the recognition of the People's Group, but also the support of the People's Group. And said this, and entering the bottom of the matter, AGE recovers I would say that the bad habit of applying the doctrine of the least effort, of bringing back initiatives that have already been debated and voted on in committee and in full. This, in particular, is done twice, on 18 December 2015 and 2 February 2016, both in the 7th Commission of this House, and both with identical or practically identical agreements. And I have to tell them that the position of the People's Party has not changed, the position of the People's Party has not changed. And not because we don't think this staff doesn't deserve all the improvements. We even demand that Seaga study them and, as far as possible, launch them. But it turns out, at least, I would say that it is absurd to think that this Parliament has to replace the appropriate forums to discuss this matter, especially when it is issues that are being dealt with within a process of collective bargaining. And I think, in addition, you try to play with the workers and you try to generate, in this case, false expectations about a company that is true that it is a public commercial society, but it has autonomy in its organization. I also think they play when they intentionally forget to say some things, like, for example, that Seaga brigades are a backup device for high-risk periods. And this, as is logical, conditions the duration of contracts. This period covers the months of July, August and September; that is, three months, just as it happened with most of the personnel involved in the device, at this time, of the brigades, by setting an example, of the municipalities. And I explained this, it turns out curious that you now propose to increase this time. Because it seems that you have a selective memory and that you have a different behavior when you're in opposition than when you're in government. Because in the device created in Seaga in 2007, under the two-party government – it led this councillor the Nationalist Block of Wales, the Conseilerie de Medio Rural – the workers were hired for work or service, in periods even less than three months. That's right there, they were hired for work or service in periods even less than three months. And then you didn't talk, and then you didn't say these were unworthy contracts, as they say in the explanatory statement of this initiative. And with regard to the application of the agreements to which Mr Fajardo refers, the reading of the law cannot be made in part, and transitional provision 6 gives that period of two years to negotiate the application of the UN convention, but it also conditions this negotiation to the budgetary situation and to a timetable that will be negotiated within the General Public Employees' Bureau. And we don't understand why they want to replace this dialogue process, because the conditions in Seaga can be even better than those in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u276	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u277	So, I know you're probably taking this initiative because, taking this initiative four, five or six times, you save yourself from making four, five or six initiatives. But you pay for work. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u278	Thank you, Mr. Balsairo. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u279	The truth is that you don't stop to surprise yourself every time you speak to Mr. Balsairo, because you tell him about the doctrine of the least effort and you pay us for working a person to whom you write until the pauses of your speeches, which is unable to draft anything for yourself and come here to explain your position if it's not what someone puts you on Wikipedia, as we've already shown in a commission more than once, because you have noses, and that you accuse us of the rest of vacancies even a person who is unable to skip the agreement of the Bureau of Parliament to not use the means of transport of the Bureau for things that have nothing to do with official acts. So those who accuse others of not working to apply the story, who work a little bit and do things, who don't come here to get their hair. And then, every time this group takes an initiative in defense of the workers you say you didn't do anything in 2009 in the Bipartite, man!, unfortunately for us AGE in 2009 was still in process... I don't know what to call him, because in 2009 we didn't even know there was going to be an AGE. But, of course, what is already quite regrettable is that you say it's absurd – absurd, he said, I don't know what it means but he said it's absurd – that this initiative is brought about when there's a negotiation process. Well, the law proposes that the negotiation process begin in 2010, with a two-year deadline. So I think that negotiation process didn't even start. But what's already a coat of hair is that you tell me you don't support it because it's not going to be that the negotiation process gives better conditions than the Joint Staff. Look, don't take my hair off, don't take my hair off. Because I may be a new deputy, but assholes aren't, and of course I still don't know any initiative from the People's Party, the workers' party – as they have said lately – that improves the working conditions of any worker in this country, no one!, never!, never was. But of course, don't invent things, don't invent things. If you're going to what Seaga's constitution and its objectives are, nowhere in these targets makes it a backup team for extreme risk situations. You have an enormous ability to invent positions that defend according to things, and besides even invent even the rule when you tell me that the law is related to the budgetary situation. Tell me where, tell me, article, specific paragraph, if you're able, if you ever read the law, that that's something else I doubt, that someday you'd read beyond the statement that they give you to come here. But above all, I'd like you to tell me why you don't want to do something that just says "improved the working conditions of the workers." The second question is: "In the face of the obvious risk situation, we believe that this service must have a preventive element." And it's impossible to make prevention in July and August.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u280	Mr. Fajardo, you will finish your time, position yourself on the socialist amendment, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u281	I still have 20 seconds left. I have plenty of time left. The truth is, the level -- well, I don't say anything -- there's 20 seconds left to talk about what I was going to talk about, and I was thinking about the need to give people greater contract capacity not only because of their job situation but to improve the situation of our mountains. And he gave me plenty of time, before you cut me with some intent, to tell the Socialist Party colleagues that he fully accepted his amendment as a substitute for our point 2. But, of course, here's the capacity for freedom of expression for everyone, as they say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u282	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u283	Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Ricardo Vicente Docasar Docasar and two other Members, on the request by the Government of Greece to the Government of Spain for the development of a new educational law in agreement with the school community and with the set of political forces
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u284	To this non-law proposal three amendments will be tabled, one from the Joint Group, another from the Nationalist Block Group in Wales and the other from the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u285	To formulate the initiative, Mr Docasar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u286	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. We're already in the family, playing football, and Mr. Santalices is gone. Here again, the Socialist Group insists on and perseveres in its constant struggle against LOMCE. And we do it by collecting once again the broad feeling of the educational community of this country, although we also know that we have before us a real rock, the People's Party, which continues to err that goes wrong, like the hammer pillar, defending that law that they made in solitary. And they're still defending her in absolute political and social loneliness. A few days ago, this Member who speaks to them publicly appeared on a press tour to ask Núñez Feijóo and Román Rodríguez for the last time to immediately paralyze the fearful schedule of LOMCE implementation, and today I am calling here again in parliamentary office. I compared a few days ago, ladies and gentlemen, to ask them to ask Nuñez Feijó and Román Rodríguez to paralyze the 6th Primary Revald, scheduled for the next month of May, in the full week of the Greek letters – as said my companion Marisol Soneira, order rain in Havana!–, just as she is demanding massively at this moment the whole educational community. And I came in like manner to ask them to paralyze the second round of Bacharelato, as the representatives of the institutes, the students, the mothers' and parents' groups, and even the Rectors' Conference itself. And I came in too, as I didn't! to ask them to stop fooling, manipulating and confusing the public with this controversial matter. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group is a responsible group, and that's why we need to once again clarify to Galician society what we want to do and in the order in which we want to do it. Today, the socialists want first to paralyze LOMCE; secondly, to develop a new law of education consistent with the whole educational community, and with the ability to last over time; and thirdly, and done the previous, only done the previous, at that time but to derogate LOMCE. I hope that it will be made clear to the honourable Members of the People's Group, so that they will stop messing with and manipulating public opinion by putting in our mouths the things we didn't say or want to do. You all know that this Member who speaks to you has always said that the implementation schedule of LOMCE has been and continues to be precipitated and reckless today. And they serve as examples of what I'm talking about in a hurry and running from the Primary, Secondary, Bachelor's and Basic FP decrees, the new didactic programming or the staging of the different and varied revalids that LOMCE brought under the arm. And you all have to know that today we have a new reason to ask them publicly to paralyze the LOMCE deployment schedule. That new reason, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely that the Congress of Deputies, which continues to hold all democratic legitimacy today, voted and passed by a large majority a few days ago a proposal for the Socialist Group's law in that sense. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party has been extremely critical throughout the process of developing and implementing LOMCE, both in Spain and here in Galicia. We understand at the moment and continue to understand today that this country had lost for sectarian and clearly supportive reasons a new opportunity to give stability to the education system; a stability that it has demanded – indeed, with great insistence – the whole educational community in this country. It is necessary to say once again in this Parliament, loud and clear, that the Government of the People's Party has worked hard to put in place this new educational law, which almost no one wanted, and to try to keep it tied and well tied. But they forgot nothing else and nothing but that there were general elections pending. And we'll probably have more in the next few days. The Socialist Group always said that both the German Government and the State Government were in too much hurry to implement LOMCE, because they knew it was a law that would last exactly what President Rajoy's government in Moncloa had to do with. And we also said that, when that moment comes – if it finally comes – the socialists would address the development of an education law with broad social and political consensus, and with real ability to last in time. We said that at that time we would gradually start our way towards an education investment of 7% of GDP in eight years, that we would start gradually recovering the large amounts of resources cut out in the Welsh education – in total EUR 400 million in the last few years – that we would start gradually re-establishing the working and professional conditions taken from the teacher and the amounts devoted to the scholarships of our students. And I want to tell you again today at parliamentary headquarters that all these commitments are still in force today. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always supported and I also support today that in education there are no magic recipes, in education there is constant and sustained work in time. Education needs stability, it needs resources, yes, but above all it needs to look after and respect its teacher, because without it there is no miraculous reform that improves the education system of any country in the world. LOMCE undoubtedly had an unprecedented attack on this country's public school, and for socialists that was clearly a red line that the People's Party passed without complexes, using its absolute majority. The steps we want to take if we have the opportunity to rule in Spain – and I insist on it – are very clear and do not allow manipulation: firstly, paralyze the implementation calendar of LOMCE; secondly, consensually develop a new education law with the ability to last in time; and thirdly, at that time if you derogate LOMCE. And, frankly, it's hard for me to understand which of the three steps we want to take do not understand the lordships of the People's Group. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still in time to paralyze the LOMCE deployment schedule in Galicia, in line with what you are asking for 12 out of the 17 autonomous communities. We're in time not to launch the 6th Primary and 2nd LAC revals, and we're also in time not to implement in the next course the 2nd and 4th ESO courses until it is clear what the future of LOMCE itself will be. You have a new opportunity today to listen to that generalized feeling or choose, as they have done up until now, for then mistake in mistaking your lonely bet by LOMCE and its run-down deployment calendar. You decide, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group. For my part, nothing else in this first round, and I hope this initiative deserves the approval of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u287	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u288	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. The amendment I propose includes paralysing the application of LOMCE in Galicia and that the development of a new consensus law be made within a state pact, which would strengthen the necessary stability of the educational system proposed in the non-law proposal of the PSdeG-PSOE. LOMCE is a law that was imposed in the previous legislation by the absolute majority of the People's Party without consensus from other parliamentary groups, the educational community, trade unions and civil society in general. But the political map that left the last election call and the current political situation, a government in function and a very possible repetition of elections, glimpses a new parliamentary arc without absolute majority, more plural and more representative, a parliamentary arc with no absolute majority and obliged to govern on the basis of consensus and negotiation. I'm allowed to look much more democratic and representative. But returning to the question of what this LNP is about, and which will count on our favourable vote, is essential a state pact for education that looks at at at least for a generation, not for a legislature or a government, and that guarantees a public and quality education system for all. It's the use of education as a partisan tool that prevents us from having a lasting pedagogical system over time. We've already lost track of the educational laws we've had since the Transition. I don't know, they correct me, but I think it's eight. Each new shift in the bipartisan alternative generates a legislative change in education. Well, maybe I was wrong there, but it's kind of like that, Counselor. A single and solely driven educational law by a parliamentary majority is doomed to failure. If there is no agreement between the political forces, the professional sectors, the educational community and the trade unions, its duration is subject to the duration of the government's stay in the party that created it and pushed it. It is clear, therefore, that it is necessary and urgent for a social and political agreement that forms the basis of a quality education and public system for the coming decades, at least. It is a challenge that requires reflection on pacts, a new model of education that starts with the proposals and criteria of experts representatives of the educational community and civil society, which establishes and sets the lines that are irrevocable in the suitability of public education. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u289	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u290	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Docasar, we agree with you in the need, of course, to derogate LOMCE, a completely harmful law for the interests of public education in Galicia, a law that introduces legislative changes that undermine the quality of public education in Galicia, and one of these serious deteriorations is the famous revals that are unfortunately today. We agreed with the need to derogate LOMCE, but we tabled an amendment with the idea of completing its proposal not of law, amendment of addition, in two key respects. BNG understands that it is also necessary to urge the Board to paralyze the implementation of LOMCE in Galicia, the same as the vast majority of the autonomous communities in the state. And a second point that we think is that it is also necessary to agree, indeed, on a new law, but that it takes account of the multinational character of the State and that it facilitates an educational law of its own for Galicia, which takes into account, respects and promotes our culture, our history, our language and our educational interests. We must derogate LOMCE, ladies and gentlemen, that law imposed on Galicia's greatest opposition to an educational law, the opposition of the ANPA galegas, the teaching unions, movements of pedagogical renewal, political parties and even the student, which last day 12 manifested itself by thousands against LOMCE filling the streets of our country. We must derogate LOMCE, ladies and gentlemen, in response to the claims of the Welsh educational community. Yesterday, the Galician Public Education Defense Platform called for mobilization to derogate LOMCE and for the passage of the famous revals of the 3rd and 6th, imposed against the majority will of the educational community of Galicia. He called for all the parents and teachers to focus on May 4, Day 9 and Day 11, which is when the new 6th revalide begins; revalids that are imposed on children and children under 12 years of age. Last year over 50% of the families who attend public education with their children protested energetically against this test. And on the 11th of May, they want to impose a new 22,000 students under 12 years of age, from 6th of the Primary School, and to subject them to unnecessary stress, by no means the assessment continues to be made by the German teacher and against, I say, the majority opinion of the education community in Wales. The upheavals have been answered, I've said before, by most autonomous communities. LOMCE is a law that is born dead, as the spokesman for the Socialist Group said, and must be derogated by a recentralizer, because it invades the educational skills of the Germans and because it tries to completely distance the teaching from our social, historical and cultural reality. And unfortunately, with the vein of the Council itself and the German Government. Curiously today, April 26th, it is the turn of 170 years of the shooting of the martyrs of Carral, 170 years after the shooting of the martyrs of freedom, denied by official history, the martyrs against recentralization, those of whom the poet Manuel María said: "In Carral is the cave/ of the Heroes of Liberty/ seed fruitful and new/ that one day will flourish!Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Those who have been defeated in Cacheiras, but who remain in history, today 170 years later, from the side of the Greek Parliament, we complain like them against the re-centralization of an educational law, which must be repealed because it involves a confrontation with the teacher, and a contempt for the work they do; that it is necessary to derogate because they only measure the results of the subject matter of examination of the students, and because they intend to recover a renewed, already forgotten, frankism that the only thing they want is to create, select and separate the student from the German student from being able to continue higher education. I hope, Mr. Docasar, that you will accept the amendment to addendum that the BNG proposes. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u291	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. For the People's Group, you have the floor Mr. Sobrino Flours.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u292	Thank you very much, Madam President. We have tabled a amendment today, Mr Docasar, which the only thing that pursues is to achieve a generalized will here in this House, to see if we are able to yield everyone even if it is in a part that touches each one of us, because in this it consists of the agreements, and to be able to materialize an educational system of quality, an educational system – as you say – that lasts in time, and, apart from, that it is equitable too, right?, and that it responds to a society that intends to have the best-formed youth in the history of Spain; the question that we usually repeat and that it seems as the only way to achieve it is to have socialist laws. Because you speak of stability, but if there was no stability, it would be because socialist laws were continually reforming themselves, but no other law was in force more than their own. So when we talked about pacts and we talked about LOMCE, we could talk about any other law, about any other law, because there was no consensus, there was never consensus. In any case, it seems recommended that in order to speak of consensus and agreements we have to resort to objectivity, responsibility, in order to achieve them everywhere. But, of course, you come here and say that Mr. Counsellor, the parliamentary group, and this spokesman, we are fearsome. And immediately after you say that you must paralyze the law, not comply with it, violate a law. And say it in a legislative chamber, breaking an organic law, that's not reckless. No, it's not reckless not to apply the law when it's already applied in half of the courses. [[Murmurs.]] It is now being applied on a calendar for the rest of the courses. What's wrong? We apply it in half, to some yes, to others, don't we? What do we apply to those you want to paralyze? Shall we bring together two different systems? How do we evaluate them later? Here bread for today and hungry for tomorrow, or how do we do it? What happens without evaluation and scratch down? Is that what you're proposing? And that's not being reckless. Well, shall we go back to the previous system? Shall we go back to the failure system, 30% of school failure? Is that what you're proposing? Because, of course, he talks about derogating and making a law, with whom?, with nationalist and separatist parties, what was it with those who have always done the laws? Because with the People's Party they've never agreed to anything, never. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] I present an amendment. In Madrid they weren't able to deal last week or the previous week, not even with those who signed documents for a supposed government campaign or government task, not even with Citizens were able to agree a proposal that went to Parliament's plenary session in Madrid, they were unable, there was no consensus. There was also no consensus with one who introduced the People's Party precisely for there to be consensus. For there to be consensus there must be a provision for that consensus. Then, I insist, the LOMCE did not derogate LOE, did not derogate it. It simply modified it; curiously in 95 articles and provisions of the 228 of which it consists, 41.6%. That is to say, we accept 60% of the law, if you want, and even above – which has never been said here, should not be considered timely –, 70% of the proposals made by the former Minister of Education, Mr. Gabilondo, in his social and political pact for education have been incorporated into this law. But they don't have any criteria, they shouldn't be worth anything. That's not good for consensus. For we believe that LOMCE is a good basis for consensus, it is a good basis because it is in force, it is an organic law and it must be fulfilled, Mr Docasar. You know, and I don't want to be reckless. And I know you don't want to be reckless either. And then something we learned, it says to overthrow LOMCE after you don't apply it. Well, you've already introduced, for approval here, initiatives to derogate LOMCE. Now we're getting better. What we don't improve is the individualised evaluation test. Then we continue to call them revalids when you know, as a teacher, that nothing has to be revalidated, that it is not an exam, nor even a test of students' knowledge. It's an assessment of the suitability of the education system to see if it provides students with key skills, skills and skills.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u293	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u294	Finished, Madam President. That is why we are presenting this initiative, to see if we are able here from the Galician Parliament to send the Congress of Deputies, the Government of Spain, to which it results, to send a message – to us too – that Galicia is the first autonomous community in Spain that counts with an agreement from a parliament that urges the Central Government to implement a law with consensus from all political parties. That's the People's Party's commitment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u295	Thank you, Mr. Fariñas. Mr Vázquez Díaz has the floor for the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u296	Thank you very much, Madam President. And good afternoon to all and to all. The reality is that the absurdity and commitment of the People's Party to save LOMCE now reaches and even exceeds the absurdity. You know, you know, the lords of the People's Party know, that at this point, LOMCE has not been on its way. It's a law that has no salvation, which is in the terminal phase, and that's evidence. The Congress of Deputies approved its paralysis. But it's all the more: all the parties are against LOMCE except the lords of the People's Party. And you look like you don't understand and you still haven't assumed that the time of the absolute majority of the People's Party is over. So it doesn't make sense to bet on a law that you alone defend. That's a reality they have to assume. I'll give you an example. On 21 April, on 21st, the Ministry of Education called for a technical meeting to organize the revolutions, and only the communities governed by the People's Party, five and Navarre attended. Eleven autonomous communities left the People's Party planted. At this moment, today, 70% of the 3rd and 6th students in the whole state will not be summoned to carry out their revals, and you are wrong to be mistaken for the revals. And they know there's no greater legal insecurity than to pass a law that can't be put in place, that's legal insecurity. And you insist on a rule that causes legal insecurity because you're the only one who bets on it. That's the reality, the LOMCE won't apply, the revalids won't apply. And you, who are the great advocates of governance, should understand that issue and start to work from there. But, well, they insist on not being wrong. I believe that we have already discussed this issue sufficiently in this Parliament. So I'm going to say that I agree in general with the initiative advocated by the Socialist Group. But I would also like, by moving forward and incorporating new elements into the debate, to make a couple of killings, two killings. First of all, I do not take account of the fact that we have had too many educational laws in Spain and that every government that arrives implements its own law. I know it's not politically correct, but I don't take it. I'll explain why. In the Spanish state there have been two major educational laws in the last 50 years: the General Education Act of 1970 and LOXSE in 1990. They're not too many. Henceforth, there have been reforms and amendments to the law. The quality law was an attempt to change but frustrated because it didn't move forward, and the LOE was a partial reform of LOXSE, that's the reality. So now the LOMCE is a third attempt of great reform but it's not going to be applied either. So in fifty years we've had two major educational reforms. We can't extend a topic that's not real, that's not true, as far as it's assumed to be irrationally. Secondly, I don't assume that consensus is the greatest educational challenge in our country, either, it's not true. The great challenges of our education system are, first of all, to achieve universalized and quality public education for all people, regardless of their social, economic, ethnic or personal status, the first major challenge. The second big challenge is to achieve a secular education in which religion is out of public education and reserved for the private sector, which is indeed a challenge. Third challenge: to achieve a quality public education with sufficient resources and staff frameworks, reserving the right of choice of centre – i.e. the right to choose private center – to those people who want and can pay for it; and therefore to stop deriving public resources to private education, with the progressive and gradual elimination of educational concerts to ensure quality public education. Fourth challenge: to assume the contributions of pedagogy, psychology, sociology and to articulate a scientific educational model, contrary to what LOMCE does, where they perpetuate themselves and defend issues that do not have scientific content, such as the segregation of students, absolutely scientific, how it is to use completely surpassed teaching methodologies. LOMCE is an ascientic law, out of its time, recovers revalids, recovers the model of the apprentice through the FP, where what it is done is to replace used in antiquity to establish workers simply by broth, as in the 1950s; hence, recovers a model of quality teaching. Fifth place: to put teaching to the service of society, and to understand teaching as a social loop that defines our model of coexistence... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u297	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u298	...which defines what we are and which, therefore, also defines what we want to be. And don't act like you're doing right now, which is understanding the education system in the service of the labour market. And that's not the role of school. On these five elements you can improve your teaching. The consensus for consensus, of course, does not improve education. And I'm very afraid that with the right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u299	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u300	...it will be impossible to work on these five elements. What we have to achieve is to achieve a counterpower on this right in order to move forward with the reforms needed to improve education. We, of course, are going to work for it. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u301	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Docasar.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u302	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon again. Welcome, Counselor. Mr. Farinas, you're leaving today. Yes, yes, it's just that you're talking about consensus after you make an educational law alone without you telling anyone. [[Murmurs.]] And today he comes here and offers consensus. By the way, all groups have made an amendment, except for the AGE Group, and I want to tell them I really appreciate it. Each one made his contribution. But I am going to ask that the socialist initiative be voted on as we put it, because I think it is quite clarifying. It's a gesture possibly, it's just a gesture, but I think it's an important gesture of this Parliament, being like we're in the final part of the legislation. As it would be a gesture towards the central government, towards Parliament itself in Madrid. So the initiative will be voted on as presented by the Socialist Group, thanking you, yes, the amendment you tabled to me AGE, the BNG and the People's Group – which I also thank you, Mr Farínas, that you have made your contribution too –. [[Murmurs.]] Having said that, I want to tell you that I don't know how many times I'm going to explain to parliamentary headquarters what we want to do. They always try to manipulate and confuse the public with what I say. Today I said it in the first part of my speech and I said it in the second part, trying to be very didactic and very pedagogical. I think I haven't got it, I'll try again, I'll take care of diversity, in this case of the People's Group and Mr Farigna. What do we want to do? I'm going to say it very spatially. First, we just want to paralyze the deployment calendar – so far we will understand –. That means we don't do the 6th Primary Revalition, which is going to be the week of the Galagas Letters, don't do that. Let's not implement 2nd of Bacharelato and 4th of ESO next year, and 2nd of ESO, and do it during that time, we elaborate for six months – yes, if there is a government in Madrid – a new law of education with consensus, yes, with consensus. And a law – as I said in my initiative – with the ability to last in time. Because that would be the best contribution of politics to the education system in this country. It's a subject that teachers are asking us for, we can listen to them or not, but that's what the school community is asking for. And as long as we don't do that, there will be no education system that can improve. Mr. Flours, that's the way it is. As long as we do not have stability, Mr Vázquez, that stability is fundamental, and that means that we all have to be reasonably dissatisfied. No one can think of it as a socialist, popular, AGE, Joint Group or BNG law, because that's not the case. As long as we don't have an education law for the education system in this country, it won't be possible to improve our education system. That's what we want to do, and from there they stop manipulating and deceiving public opinion. We paralyze, we draft a new law and then we derogate LOMCE. That's not it, Mr. Farinas, to be feared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-26-DSPG150.u303	Thank you, Mr. Docasar. We'll hold the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you.
