ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG160.u1	Good morning. Let's start the session. [[Pause.]] Good morning, again. The session is open. The agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia, so we do not proceed to its reading. Mrs González Sánchez, Mrs González, has justified this plenary. So we're already entering the agenda development. One point in this plenary. Designation of senators or senators representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia in accordance with Article 165.1 of the Galician Parliament Regulation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG160.u2	The procedure for the appointment of senators or senators on behalf of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, under the agreement of the Bureau and the Speaker's Board of Auditors of 5 July 2015, the number of senators or senators to be appointed shall be three, in accordance with the provisions of Article 10.1 of the Galicia Autonomy Statute. Its distribution, made in proportion to the representation of the various political forces in the House, determines that the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia is two candidates and that the Socialist Parliamentary Group in Galicia is one candidate. After the deadline for the submission of proposals, the Presidency, by resolution of 8 July 2016, decided to admit the procedure to the proposals of the parliamentary groups and to appoint candidates for Senators. The election shall be made by ballots in accordance with Article 91 of the Galician Parliament's Regulation. The names of the candidates proposed to mark with a stamp the box of candidates who lend their support will appear in the paper allocated to the effect. If you don't mark a box, you will consider a blank vote, and if you enter a red tape amendment or any other addition, you will declare a null vote. We therefore proceed to the distribution of the papers. I don't know if all the ladies have their papers. So, after we have finished the paperwork distribution, I beg the first vice-president and the vice-secretary to stand where the ballot box for the paper collection, and the secretary to make the alphabetical call of the Members and Members, who will put their vote in the ballot box. When they want to.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG160.u3	Thank you. Have all Members and Members exercised their right to vote? [[Pause.]] Let's go to the count.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG160.u4	We've got the result. Votes in favour of Don Juan Manuel Jiménez Morán, 40; votes in favour of Don Modesto Pose Mesura, 18; votes in favour of Don Fernando Carlos Rodríguez Pérez, 40; votes in favour, 14. So, having reached the support of the House, representatives of the Autonomous Community of Galicia, for legislation in the Senate, Mr Juan Manuel Jiménez Morán, Mr Modesto Pose Mesura and Mr Fernando Carlos Rodríguez Pérez, are appointed senators.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-12-DSPG160.u5	Out of the agenda item, the session is up, which does not actually get up because we continue with the new session. Anyway, I commend all the senators.
