ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u1	Good morning. We resumed the session, and first I wanted to apologize for Mr. Abel Losada's present session, wishing him a recovery from his illness. And we start with the seventh point, questions – silence, please – for the oral answer of the President of the Union, starting with Fr. Patricia Vilán Lorenzo, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Patricia Vilan Lorenzo, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the balance sheet of the health policy of the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President of the Board. Today we're going to talk about public health and health. You know, according to CIS, the social issue that concerns citizens the most is their health, and you will say that it has to do with our current crisis, this crisis situation, with health. We'll tell you how much; it has to do with the cuts, with the neglect of people, with their health government strategy, with their inefficiencies and incompetence to manage public health. Health cuts, Mr. President, are paying for people's health. We're in summer, and you know that there's a bed close, 13% of the average bed disablement, because so Sergas decided, by his order. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, if your Mr. Director General of Health Care says that the beds are not actually closed, the beds are on stand by, because the patients prefer to go to the beach – we're in summer and it's normal – and because the staff prefer to go on vacation and you don't hire anyone. Yes, all of this, according to your general health care director, is called "redistribution of resources," redistribution of resources that causes women to be unattended. Women who have to abort because pregnancy endangers their health must travel to Madrid to ensure that they can exercise their right. That's right, Sergas doesn't run with all the costs and they're only paid after facts, 80 euros on the trip, no antibiotics prescribed – it won't be – nor any hotel, even if the intervention is at 5:00 p.m. and they have to go back from Madrid to Galicia by car. That redistribution of resources, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, I suppose it is not necessary to remind you that it caused several people to die from hepatitis C and that two high-ranking government officials are charged with a alleged crime of prevarication. That's not called redistribution of resources, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, it's called neglect, incompetence and inefficiency to manage public health in Galicia. Because, as you told President Touriño in this House on April 23, 2008, do you think there are reasonable waiting lists in Galicia? Does it seem reasonable to you that the People's Valuer, Mr. Nuñez Feijóo, tells you that your Government has an obligation to manage waiting lists with more complex criteria and more transparency? Mr. President, she points out the disappearance of the most disadvantaged groups by their health policy on public health, exactly as 6-year-old children are currently missing, who have no triple vaccine for the destruction of their Government, exactly as babies have not had meningitis B vaccine for the destruction of their Government, which still exists. How can you talk about new health centers, Mr. President of the Galician Council, if of the 53 you promised in 2009, right now, seven years later, there are 33 that don't exist? Is that efficiency, as you told Mr. Tourinho on April 23, 2008 in this House? Mr. President, you, of these 53 health centers, of those 20 that you go around proudly saying that they were inaugurated, the only thing you had to do was to inaugurate 12, that they already came from the previous government, like Sarria's or Sanxenxo-Vilalonga's. Mr. President-in-Office, in short, what can you balance us with your health policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I am glad that you bring to this House your concern about public health, and I am glad that you give me the opportunity to talk about the public health of Galicia. I know, Your Honor, that public health, in neither Galicia nor anywhere in the world, is perfect, but I think it counts – I am convinced – with professionals who give excellent quality to Galician public health, and therefore, like most Greeks, I am proud of Galician public health. Indeed, Your Honor, the professionals were able, at the time of economic recession, not only to maintain the excellent level of public health, but to offer better services in public health. And I say I am reasonably proud for two reasons: firstly, because most of the Greeks disagree with you and believe that public health has increased its quality; and secondly, because we continue to improve public health despite the difficulties. Your Honor, the June 2016 health barometer – that is, this month – the last published, reflects that 71.6% of the Greeks believe that public health is good or quite good, 8 points above the average of Spain. That barometer says most people believe that health is equal or better than before; for example, 78% of the Greeks believe that it is better at primary care, 66.5 we think it is better at hospital consultations, 66 and I pick % better at hospital care, and so on. Even, Your Honor, those public health defense associations that you always remember because you have just said that Galicia has risen a step in the assessment of public health; we are at the fifth place of autonomous communities of general regime. By the way, when you ruled, public health associations said Sergas was number eleven in 2006 and number thirteen in 2007. Look, Your Honor, despite what you say, the Greeks don't agree with you. That's probably why you're in the opposition and most of the Greeks are still voting for us. Your Honor, I say that in Galicia today there are more health infrastructures, more patient rights and more activity. There are more health infrastructures, because we have a new hospital in Lugo, and we have a new hospital in Vigo, and we will deliver a new hospital building in Ourense, and we will expand the Salnés hospital in Vilagarcia, and start the hospital works in Burela. Yes, Your Honor, it can be seen that you haven't been in Vilagarcia for a long time. Look, Your Honor, the exact number of health centers is 36, 25 new ones already built and 11 reformed. This year they come into operation 13 and we're bidding 10. Summary: 70% of the Greeks in 2016 have either a new hospital or a reformed hospital or a new health center. Do we have more rights? The answer is yes, Your Honor. Clinical history, 100 per cent; electronic recipe, 100 per cent; telephone consultations in primary care, two million; schedule of vaccines, Spain's largest. Law on the provision of health guarantees. There was no time with you to approve. Look, Your Honor, I'm going to give you good news, which lives in Pontevedra: this month we're going to sign with the mayor of Pontevedra the new great hospital in Montecelo, in Pontevedra; you should applaud this proposal. And I'm going to give you another more news, if you're interested in public health -- you're about to exit the waiting list data this first half of this year 2016 -- it's the best data since there's a waiting log. Your Honor, not only are we improving public health, but the professionals were able to improve, increase and make more infrastructure than when there was economic goodness. I hope, Your Honor, that he's happy just like us. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u6	Thank you, President. Mr. President of the Union, you are still living in the country of wonders. Don't be squirted in professionals or squirted in health associations, be you brave. You know you're a mere manager, but you don't shield yourself from people who are doing your job and doing it very well for sure, despite their cuts and despite their inefficiencies and their incompetence. It must not go so well when 200,000 people came out in Vigo to protest for their health policy, when in Pontevedra – that no one goes out on the street to protest – we went out almost 30,000 to protest for their health policy. Mr. Núñez Feijóo, you must not go as well as you are telling us. By the way, your inheritance, because you like to talk so much about Zapatero's inheritance, because it's unfortunately going to be that you're going to leave us a severe mortgage that leaves the country and future governments, because you're the one who prefers to benefit private companies from public health and at the expense of public office. And the palpable example is Vigo's private hospital. You decided in 2009 to transform a hospital that was going to be public in a private management hospital, it helped an UTE of which – oh, curiosity!, oh, chance! – were part Bankia, Rodrigo Rato – who was in his party, so I know – and also former councilman of Galicia Agustín Hernández, with a company of his – who also, curiously, seems to be in his party–. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u7	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u8	That UTE came in for creditors. The hospital has lost beds, curiously – oh, by chance! – the same beds that Povervisa has. The hospital has also lost its central laboratory, which you decided to adjudicate Capio, a company that is charged with the privatization process of Madrid's health, also by chance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u9	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u10	The total cost went from 458 million euros to a mortgage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u11	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u12	...of 3,260 million, to be paid in 20 years. That, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, is his inheritance, the inheritance of reducing the 2009 health budget to 18.3%, the inheritance of having to cease a late, ill counsellor and the trail. The inheritance to which, in addition, you can add the nine years in which you were president of Health, and the next president of Health, having that inheritance, what you had to do was close it. That's your inheritance, Mr. Feijóo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u14	Your Honor, I didn't think you'd be able to get over it, but the truth is, you'll get over it. Look, Your Honor, I feel a lot more comfortable taking stock of the health policy of the last seven years than if you had to take stock of your only month as a spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Applause]] And I am not telling you, Your Honor, because you continue to offer glorious moments to this Parliament, like what you have just offered. I'm telling you, Your Honor, because there's a big difference between your attitude and mine. Look, Your Honor, I've been working for Galicia for quite some time, my commitment is to continue working for four more years if the Greeks consider it appropriate. What I'm telling you is that to work for Galicia, firstly, with humility; secondly, with a minimum of knowledge; and, thirdly, with a minimum of ethical principle. That's why, Your Honor, to work for Galicia... [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you laugh at what I just said, none of the three things have. I say that to work for Galicia, Your Honor, to work for Galicia, you need a minimum of knowledge, and to work for Galicia, and specifically for public health in Galicia, you need a minimum of humility. [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] And that's why I feel humblely satisfied that today the public health of Galicia is better than when we get to the government, because there are more rights for citizens, because there are more benefits for citizens, because there are more infrastructures for citizens and because there are less expectations for citizens. Today we have higher health, hospital, technological and primary infrastructure than when we get to the government. Today we have less expectations in consultations and surgeries than when we get to the government. Today we have more vaccines and more vaccination calendar than when we get to the government. Today we have, without any doubt, better public health, not because I say it, but because I just said it right now the barometer – that's what you're talking about – of the CIS: 71.6% of the Greeks are satisfied with our health, and most of the way, the vast majority of the Greeks believe that public health is better today than last year, and so on. Look, Your Honor, our balance sheet admits opinions, of course – I don't know if so many opinions as in the Socialist Parliamentary Group – but, of course, our balance sheet does admit opinions. Do you know what you don't have any discussion? That you have contributed nothing in eight years to the public health of Galicia, except for the lies, like the ones you've just told. And you know what, Your Honor? Do you know what's good about all this? That time puts each one in his place. Public health – its present and future – is fully guaranteed by the excellent professionals and the Government of Galicia. And as for your place, Your Honor, it's not very difficult to predict either: on your place you just have to look at the face of your fellows to check out where your place is. Nothing else and thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Question by Mrs Consuelo Martínez García, spokesperson for the Joint Parliamentary Group. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da María Consuelo Martínez García of the G.P. Mixed, on the measures implemented by the German Government along the IX legislation to reduce the number of suicides in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u16	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Feijó. Suicides are the first cause of unnatural death in Galicia and its number doubles the number of traffic accidents. According to the INE, during its Government, Mr Feijóo, the number of people who took their lives rose by 22%, up to 371 cases in 2014, 394 according to the Immelga; in 2007, the year before the start of the crisis, was 304. Miguel Anxo García, a clinical psychologist at Santiago Hospital, warns that two investigations conducted this year establish the direct relationship between the increase in suicide in Galicia and the economic crisis. The cuts in public services, social protection, health care and active employment policies have exacerbated the impact of the crisis on people. WHO had already warned in 2011 that the crisis would affect mental health and called for strengthening those services to cushion its impact, and also advised policies aimed at relieving the debt burden of families. Your Government, Mr. Feijóo, did not follow these indications. Data show that mental health has worsened and that the indicator of unbearable social suffering such as suicide has been increasing steadily since 2011; that is, in Galicia the increase in the number of suicides is directly linked to the increase in social inequality, work insecurity and unemployment. I'll give you some data, all of them referred to in Galicia, which demonstrates this statement. 591,826 persons, representing 46,5 % of the persons who submitted the 2014 income statement, declared income less than EUR 12,000 per year. Galicia is the fourth lowest labour cost community. 31% of the 797,600 employees in Greece receive wages below the minimum wage. According to EPA, Galliza won in a year 21,700 busy, but in much worse wage conditions, so the Social Security Box wins membership but loses a raise. EPA also reveals that 43% of the unemployed have been unemployed for over two years, when in 2010 it was 17.6. Today Galicia has 106,000 full-time employees less than in 2010 and 18,900 more in part-time. According to the Ministry of Employment, the Tax Agency and the INE, 50.9 % of the unemployed did not receive any kind of benefit in 2015, i.e., they do not have income. 73% of benefits do not reach EUR 1,000 and 54.7% of pensions are lower than the minimum wage, while 1 in 3 Greek households is supported by a pensioner. The poverty risk rate grew by 4 points in a year, until it reached 19.4, according to INE. The crisis lasts longer than the solidarity of families can endure. Social organizations speak of invisible poverty, families that live with grandparents or people who do not attend social services for fear of losing custody of children for lack of livelihood. What actions has your Government implemented during this legislation to reduce this dramatic situation?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, last year, in March, you asked me about this very matter. I will answer in very similar terms to a subject which is, of course, serious enough and serious enough so that we do not change our mind every year. And I'm going to remind you of what the World Health Organization was saying about how the suicide problem should be dealt with. I fully agree with the World Health Organization when I think it's a mistake to deal with such a complex issue with generalizations. You, last year, taking data from an organization, the Galego Mental Health Movement, which talked about data that were not officers, asked me to say that 399 suicides had occurred in Galicia. Now you ask me to say that the last year was 321. I see, Your Honor, that depending on the data and the date of the question, they're changing the data. But I insist on what I said last year. I have a lot of respect for the people who have lost a family member in this way and, of course, an excellent assessment for the professionals who work in mental health in Galicia. Your Honor, the World Health Organization figures an average of suicides in the world for every 100,000 people in a ratio of 16 suicides per 100,000. And he tells the World Health Organization that 90% of people who commit suicide find themselves in mental disorders: depression, substance abuse, psychotic disorders, personality disorders and anxiety disorders. Of course, there are also sociodemographic and environmental factors that influence suicide, and of course I will not discuss that labour problems and social problems affect suicide. But indeed, the World Health Organization gives us a number of recommendations that I suppose you know. For example, that statistics should be interpreted carefully and correctly; secondly, that genuine and reliable sources should be used; that spontaneous comments should be handled with extraordinary care; that small-digit generalizations require particular attention; that expressions such as "suicide epidemic" or "place with higher suicide rates in the world" should be avoided; and that resistance should be opposed to reporting suicide behavior as an understandable response to changes or social or cultural degradation. So I see, Your Honor, the recommendations of the World Health Organization, neither in the last question nor in this question, you give them a minimum value. Look, Your Honor, of course there are strategies in the National Health System and Sergas. In the National Health System, the Clinical Practice Guide, which is following all mental health professionals; and in Sergas, for example, in the Sergas 2020 Strategy, you read strategic line number 3, which speaks of the development of a Strategic Mental Health Plan 2017-2020, and there is a specific line for suicide care. Look, Your Honor, I think the subject I'm proposing is too serious to deal with in the light of what you're dealing with, and talking about statistical data cheerfully and relating them to economic or social issues, do you know the suicide rate of the most developed countries in the world, with a gross domestic product and a person's income much higher than Galicia? Why are you trying to make a relationship like that you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u19	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u20	...do you ask your question? Look, Your Honor, the public health of Galicia works and the mental health services work, and that's why I tell you: the greatest effort and solidarity with the families who suffered suicide is the solidarity and effort of the professionals, the government and the president of the Union. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u22	Look, Mr. Feijóo, it was the first question I asked you as a spokesperson for the Joint Group and I wanted you to be the last, because it is true that it is a very big problem, it is a tremendous problem. I'm not the one who's related to the crisis. It went to WHO and now there's more studies that relate the increase in suicides to the crisis, because you say they're mental disorders, but it doesn't explain why they're on the rise, because since 2007, we had 304, we went to the year 2014 with 371, according to INE, and 394 according to the Immelga. That's what you don't explain. If it's a problem of mental disorder, as you say, it's clear that the Greek mental health services leave much to be desired, they don't have enough professionals to do their job, they can't perform prevention functions. I ask you what you did in this legislation and you refer me to a 2017-2020 Plan, that is, you didn't do anything, and the worst thing is that you deny the greatest, with tremendous hypocrisy, talking about solidarity with the families that have lost or with the people who have lost the people around you on this issue. And I'm not talking about solidarity; indeed, we have to be supportive. But, above all, what I'm talking about is that there are no more families who have to suffer this, that from the Government they have the means to stop this fence. I'm not saying that we have the highest rate of suicide, I say that they're rising alarming and that I look at the German Government doing nothing or planning to do, because denying reality, and denying reality, is never the solution to problems. You again, last year, when you answered me, you also had the defiance of being offended, of the suffering that this question brings to people. Lies. Women know, because they told us for many years that domestic violence remained at home, that reporting domestic violence called the abusers more ill-treatment. Lies. And this is the same with suicides. Lies. To denounce a reality that is being given due to poverty, poverty, the precarious conditions in which people in our people live is not to call suicide, is to call the Government to act, to an indolent government that looks elsewhere, that plays with people's lives, that lowers taxes when they can't lower taxes, because people are going hungry, when what we have to do is to share wealth better.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u23	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u24	That's your problem, Mr. Feijóo: that you rule for the People's Party, not rule for the Greek people. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Each elects a way to say good-bye to Parliament. Look, Your Honor, I didn't say it, I'm quoting the World Health Organization, and, as I quote the World Health Organization, the ratio is 16 suicides per 100,000 inhabitants. And the World Health Organization – straight – 90% understands that mental disorders are due, and the most common are depression and substance abuse and personality disorders and psychotic disorders. So, Your Honor, when you bring here the data in a subtle way and speak of the year 2007, which was in 2007 304 and now there are more than 370, why don't you say that in 2010 it was 275? This government was working. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Why don't you say in 2011 it was 306, less than 2007? Why do you skip all this data, Your Honor? Are you trying to relate a government to the suicide rate in a country? So why do you skip this data? Why don't you tell them, Your Honor? And why don't you say there are more suicides in Japan and Russia and in Finland and in France and in the United States than in Galicia, Your Honor? Why? Why do you skip this information, Your Honor? Why don't you say that in Japan the suicide rate is 23% and in Russia on 22, and in Finland on 16.7, and in France on 15.6, and in the United States on 13.7, all above Galicia, Your Honor. And why don't you say the suicide rate is similar to Sweden, Germany? Your Honor, but how can you pose these things this way? I'm telling you with all due respect, Your Honor. I was surprised by the first question. I'm not able to find an explanation for this way to fire you as a parliamentarian in this House. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Question by Mr Antón Sánchez García, spokesperson for the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Galician Left. He asked Mr. President of the Galician Council of D. Antón Sánchez García of the G.P. of the Alternative Left Galega, about the opportunities existing to live dignifiedly in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u28	Good morning, Mr. Feijó. You accused the spokesman of the Socialist Party of overcoming itself once again. You do get over it. In his reply to Comrade Patricia Vilan, he gave a recital of the sovereignty, of the prepotence, of the lack of respect, which characterizes it, yes, sir. It's more, a recital... the People's Group also gives a recital about how they act, once again, once again... [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Yes, yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u29	Ask the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u30	No, I'm asking the question if they'll let me. You ask the People's Group for silence.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u31	I've already asked the whole House.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u32	And you, in a characteristic that is also very yours, didn't get colored when you assumed to have ethical principles. Yes, sir, the president of the People's Party of Galicia assumes ethical principles; what he embraces Baltar, with the actions that Mr Baltar did, the accused Mr Baltar, assumes ethical principles; what he did with Martial Dorado assumes ethical principles; that of Louzán, Pokémon, Pikachu... very well, and doesn't get colored. He just gave a recital once more than you are, Mr. Feijóo. You come repeating in this precipice that Galicia is going the right way. That's more of a marketing strategy than a reality that's found in indicators and statistics. Two weeks ago we knew the definitive data of Galician population in 2015: we have lost 14,598 inhabitants, and they already add, since you rule, almost 80,000, Mr. Feijóo. I don't know if you're going to answer it or not, but it would be good to answer it if you think this huge demographic downturn will have something to do with the destruction of employment, the emigration of young people, the precariousness and temporality of work or insufficient social services. Or explain to us – you can answer in the last round and change the trend too – you can answer why until 2009 Galician population grew and since you've been losing an average of 14,000 people a year. And I think that number is a symptom, it's dramatic, but it's also a symptom. It's a symptom of the failure of their policies, of policies that are unable to give decent living conditions to people and especially to young people. It also reflects its failure, its inability to carry forward any project of silence to the country of transformation; its failure in the Greek financial system; it reflects its failure in the policies of the productive sectors, in the destruction of agriculture, in the non-abridged by a high-quality forest production; its failure, ultimately, to transform this country and give people opportunities. I think you'll say there was a crisis, and it's true: there was a crisis, but then you have to explain and answer why Galicia, in this context of crisis that also suffered the Spanish State, had many worse indicators than the state average in employment, because it had worse indicators in loss of wealth in GDP or in demography. Why did you act worse than the state average, Mr. Feijóo? You, with your policies, are putting us in a well, in a vicious circle of what will be difficult to get out. This country needs a profound change, which you have already shown you are unable to give. That's why we are going to bet for democratically throw it from where it is, so that this country has a future and people can enjoy decent living conditions in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u33	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u34	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I understand his position on Galicia and I understand his heel as well. I understand you're in trouble, Your Honor, but I'm going to talk about Galicia. Look, Your Honor, I think, in general terms, Galicia is better today than in 2009. I know it's not an optimal situation, no doubt, but there are many more hopeful circumstances today than in 2009. Why? Because we have more opportunities to work now than in 2009, because we have the productive sectors with better health than in 9, because we have more capacity to train our young people, because families have more social possibilities, because those who need them have a unique social agenda agreed between all the municipalities and the Union, and because we have more possibilities to attend both education and health. Look, Your Honor, when I arrived at the Government, the usual question is how many stops and how many affiliates we had less each month. Now the question is how many unemployed we have less and how many affiliates we have more. Your Honor, now, in the last year, in Galicia there are 21,700 unemployed less; in the last year of the previous Government there were 51,000 unemployed more. When I arrived in the Government, Your Honor, the last year 47,000 memberships will be destroyed; today there are 14,000 more affiliates in the last year. Yes, Your Honor, when I arrived at the Government, the number of people occupied in the last year had fallen to 19,500 and this last year has risen to 33,600. Look, Your Honor, there are more opportunities for the productive sectors. When I arrived at the Government, the shipyards had empty grades, and a price from a European socialist commissioner; now there are EUR 2.3 billion in contracts in the naval sector. When I arrived at the Government, the automobile had an uncertain future; and now the automobile has a true future, at least, until 2020. Your Honor, when I got to the government, college fees rose every year; they've been frozen for eight years. When I got to the government, the number of vocational training squares was 34,000; now it's 53,400, that is, 53% more. When I arrived at the Government, those who wanted to study English could already go to private classes; they are now studying English 90,000 people, in addition to the English subject itself in other subjects. Your Honor, when I arrived at the Government, there were 23,000 fewer school lunches. And when I got to the government, there were no computers in the classrooms; today there are 51,000. Your Honor, when I arrived at the Government, there was a rate of children's schools of 21 squares per 100; now they're over 33, and we've created 5,000 new squares of children's schools. [[Murmurs.]] When I arrived at the Government, there was no help for babies born every year; and now there are 1,200 per year and deductions for the second and third children. When I arrived in the Government, there was no free transportation for children under the age of 18, and in September it will begin free transport for children under the age of 18. There was no metropolitan transport either, Your Honor, there was neither the concept nor the bonus; now, in most metropolitan areas. Your Honor, when I arrived at the Government, there was neither the social rent nor the empty housing programs, nor the electric ticket, nor the protocol to avoid power cuts. When I got to the government, Your Honor, there were 14,000 dependents, and we're going to get to 50,000. When I arrived in the Government, Your Honor, there was not a single public hospital, neither in Vigo nor the expansion of the Salnes nor the Navy. Your Honor, when I got to the government I was building Lugo's hospital... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u35	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u36	Compare the old hospital park to the present hospital park.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u37	Quiet. Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u38	Your Honor, when I arrived in the Government, I found myself in a lot of trouble, but with a huge dignity: to be the president of all the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Murmurs.]] And if I didn't have the assurance that I could be useful to my country again, I wouldn't be presenting myself to the elections again. [[Murmurs.]] Your honor, if you have been useful to your country for these four years in Parliament. Nothing else. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u40	Mr. Feijóo, you have not valued the usefulness of serving the country. You, if I had the confidence of being president in Madrid, I wouldn't be here. You didn't value the utility, Mr. Feijóo. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, well, yeah, yeah, yeah, sure. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, Mr. Feijóo, once again, he didn't answer. It was very easy, instead of giving me a flap. Obviously, in the Government they did something. But not enough... well, yes, very well, the lords of the People's Party are very interactive. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] They did something, man! they did something, but not enough to keep Galicia from losing 80,000 inhabitants. [[Laughter]] [[Murmurs.]] Because when you arrived, there were 80,000 more inhabitants in Galicia, Mr. Feijóo. When you arrived, Galicia was 5.33% of the GDP in the Spanish state; today is 5.18. When you arrived, the German job was 6.18%; and today, 5.84%, Mr. Feijóo. When you arrived, it was almost 6% of the population; today it is 5.4, Mr. Feijóo. And that's symptomatic. You destroyed twice as much employment as in the Spanish state. You were talking about the job you created. Look, do you remember what you said in 2009 against the Government of Tourism, remember about unemployment? Well, look, at that moment there was a differential with the positive state for Galicia of 5.2 and today it's in 3.2, Mr. Feijóo. You would still have to create 120,000 jobs to have the situation you had when you arrived at the Government and that situation you had already criticized in a demolition way. You've done well at work! And you also said that the productive sectors are in a better position – and you didn't get colored, of course – either. Ask the owners how they're doing right now. Ask the sea sector how they are at the moment, Mr Feijóo. You've destroyed 1 out of every 3 jobs in the agricultural and forestry sector, 1 out of every 3 jobs has no parallel throughout the state; you almost triple the rate of destruction of agricultural employment in the Spanish state, Mr Feijóo. You are a real disaster for this country, we here suffer the crisis and suffer Mr. Feijó's governments too. I can't deny one by one the data you gave me, but, Mr. Feijóo, just one... If they leave me as long as he can talk, I'll let them down one by one, of course, yes. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u41	It's over with the time, but finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u42	Yes, yes, if I can, I'm done. Mr. Feijóo, and since you did not answer the question I asked you today, I would also like to know – because it is now – if you consider, as the European Railway Agency, that the Ourense-Saintiago frame was high-speed, or consider, as Ana Pastor and the Ministry of Development, that it was not high-speed, and if you consider that the CIAF was an independent agency to investigate the crash in England...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u43	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u44	...as the European Railway Agency considers, or considers, as Mrs. Pastor and the Ministry of Development...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u45	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u46	...that there is no need to create a truly independent organ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u47	Thank you. Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u48	Yes, thank you very much. Your Honor, I understand you have a certain obsession with Madrid. Probably, if there wasn't Madrid, you wouldn't be the spokesman of the group. But yes, Your Honor, while some make clear commitments to Madrid, as soon as they have the slightest chance to leave. [[Laughter]] I don't know if you won't have to leave, Your Honor, but, at last, it's a matter of parentheses. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you're talking about the unemployment rate. In fact, we are at 3.2 points below – less bad than you say –; when I arrived in the Government, there were 212,000 stopped in 2009, now there are 207,000. You shouldn't laugh, Your Honor, it was a great effort by the Greek companies and a good economic policy. [[Laughter]] And, no doubt, today, we can say that there is not only less unemployment than when the Greeks gave 41 seats to this group, but when we win also in the year 9, you should take note, Your Honor, because I think few governments in Spain can say that they end their mandate with less unemployment than when they started eight years ago; few governments, Your Honor; this government if you can say so. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I know we've lost 14,000 people in this last census. What you omitted is that 12,000 long were the difference between deaths and births; therefore, what we really lost from the objective point of view was about 1,500 inhabitants. Yes, Your Honor, I understand everything, Your Honor. [[Murmurs.]] He spoke before suicide and now a birth problem and look at this group. Your Honor, there you are and your responsibility, Your Honor, there you are. [[Murmurs.]] Look, I'm deeply sorry, Your Honor, that you're affecting the same evil as your fellows, because they manifest themselves saying things that don't happen. Look, you said they were going to be the first political force and it turns out I'm the third. You said politics should be practised with permanent smiles and now that they practice it with permanent confrontations. They said they would be the referent of internal democracy and now it turns out – according to their colleagues – that they are the referent of internal purges. And you said nothing else and nothing but the decisions were to be made in the squares. No, Your Honor, the decisions in Spain and Galicia take place in the office of Mr. Pablo Iglesias. Of squares, nothing; of smiling, nothing; and of reking political life, zero. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, I'm not here, of course, to tell you that we can give the Greeks every opportunity, of course not; if I did, I would probably not introduce myself again in these elections. So what I'm here for is to tell you not to lie to the Greeks, Your Honor, because today in Galicia there's less unemployment and more economic growth, and there's more industrial production, and there's more exports, and there's more innovation. We're making more boats and more cars, because now there's more options for new sectors, like biotechnology and aeronautical, because now there's more public services and there's more help for those who need it, and, of course, because now they're paying less taxes as well. Look, Your Honor, there are more opportunities, in spite of the opposition and in spite of the opposition. Despite the opposition, why is your collaboration? Now that we're probably at the last full of legislation, what's your proposal, Your Honor? What have they done for Galicia for these four years, except to divide and do two parliamentary groups in the House, Your Honor? Look, Your Honor, and with your sorrow, you know why? Because he'd like us to get worse, and that's what I'm really sorry about. I am most sorry to see Members and Members of a group who would like Galicia to be the worst. And that's why, Your Honor, I'll be here, I've been in the rough and, if the Greeks want, I'll stay in the mature. [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, I'm sorry... if the Greeks want, Your Honor, of course... Look, Your Honor, Your Honor, I still think it's a great country, we've shown it in the last eight years, we're a great country that we're able to get up and stand up; and that's why, Your Honor, Galicia is on the right track. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Applause]] [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] And I sincerely believe that this Galicia that advances, unfortunately, you do not represent it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, what do you want the word for, Mr. Sánchez? Give a voice to Mr. Sánchez's chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u50	He asked me questions, as always, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u51	Well, like you to him. Come on, Mr. Sánchez! Please...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u52	Mr. Feijó, I can't imagine anything worse than you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u53	Proposals not of law. We enter the fifth item on the agenda. We begin with the Joint Parliamentary Group, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the presentation by the Government of Greece in the Galician Parliament of an industrial plan, and the actions to be carried out in the field of employment G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Together, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the presentation by the Government of Greece in the Galician Parliament of an industrial plan, and the actions to be carried out in the field of employment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u54	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs Martínez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u55	Well, we've got all the lunches left in the house, we can keep it full. In Galicia, 874,643 contracts were signed last year, which meant an 11% increase in new jobs created in 2014, but only 4.9% of these initial contracts were indefinite, four tenths less than in 2014, according to the IGE. The rest, 95.1%, were eventual contracts. Plus, three out of ten new jobs took less than one week and 41 percent didn't reach the month. 91,500 initial contracts have been signed more than in 2014; however, the average membership of Social Security in Galicia in 2015 has increased to only 19,500 people, representing 2.1% over the previous year. By sector, hospitality remains the major engine of the labour market; two out of ten initial contracts, 21%, were signed in hotels, bars and restaurants. At a long distance, he was followed by the manufacturing industry, which generated about 13.5% of the new job. Trade has often increased by 11% in contracts and transport, something more than 9. From a gender perspective, men signed 53% of the new contracts. Six out of ten new employment contracts were for people with secondary education. Those who have only completed primary education have been easier placed than university graduates. I mean, a productivity system based on precariousness, lack of innovation, not in a production system 4.0. Not even the Christmas campaign served to reduce unemployment in Galicia. The number of unemployed people registered in the Inem fell into the state in December of 55,790 people, 1.34%, but increased in Galicia by 3,650, the autonomous community with greater increase, or 1.62. An accomplice government of labour exploitation and increase of unemployment, in its unconditional support to large multinationals and in their disappropriation by traditional Greek productive sectors and by pemes, micro-enterprises and social economy entities. A government that despises the working class and its legal representation, the unions. So, let's see how the concessionary companies of public works or services, which receive numerous grants from the Union, carry forward ERE, pay wages, violate labour law, and the Government of Greece inhibits action, reducing the problem to a matter between workers and companies. This data shows the weakness of our productive sector and that the sustainability of the Welsh economy is based on the service sector, low investment in R & D+i, precarious work and poor wages. Meanwhile, hundreds of university graduates and personal investigators are unemployed, emigrants or performing unskilled jobs. The study of precariousness in the German labour market of Commissions reflects the deterioration of working and living conditions of the working class, due to neoliberal and austeri measures that were applied to respond to the crisis, including the labor reforms of 2010 and 2012. According to this report, 31% of waged Galicians and Galicians receive less than the minimum inter-professional wage. The percentage of work accidents is almost double in people with temporary contracts that in those with indefinite contracts, 4,5% compared to 2.4. 91% of contracts entered into in the first quarter of 2016 were temporary and, in addition to these temporary contracts, 31% have a duration of less than one week and 37% are part-time. In the first quarter of 2016, there were 329,300 overtime and the unpaid reached 55%. According to Eurostat, women paid nearly 18.8% less per hour worked in 2014 than their boys. This percentage places the State as the sixth with the highest wage difference between the twenty-eight members of the European Union, but Galicia still exceeds that percentage of the state of 18.8, reaching the 20% wage gap in Galicia. Women account for 74.9% of part-time employees compared to 25.81% of men. 30% of working mothers work part-time, compared to 6% of their parents. According to the BBVA report, the improvement of the Greek economy is based on public services, professional and technical activities and on trade, transport and repair of vehicles. Overall, the three sectors account for 65% of the membership increase in 2015. The employment rate decreased by 1.9 % in 2015, 1.1 points less than the average of the state, and the agricultural sector was the only sector that destroyed jobs in 2015. The contraction of 1% that experienced the active population in Galicia compensated for the lowest job creation and allowed the reduction in the rate of but. According to this report, Galicia continues to face some problems that require urgent attention, training and retention of talent. Galicia presents a percentage of youth between 16 and 24 years of age who neither study nor work nor have received training courses, which need to be addressed, through the design of active employment policies, especially when the activity rate was 5.7 points below the average of the state during the crisis. The existence of a business fabric mostly formed by micro-enterprises. Export data is biased due to the presence of some large corporations. Export activity, when corrected by the number of companies in international markets per thousand inhabitants, reflects that Galicia is among the regions with the least export propensity; that is, when the data referred to in the population, to the productive sectors are studied, and if it analyzes how exports are, what we see is that we live, we continue to live in a country of microenterprises unable to compete with large corporations, which are the ones that actually export, and a country that is creating their wealth according to the service sector, that is, a sector that is not really who is going to be the economic engine of this country, whereas the industry has not just taken off. That is why we are presenting this initiative, which asks to present – I said – at this session – in the initiative obviously finished – but we believe it is essential to present an industrial plan of Galicia, because it is not worth that speech of the People's Party that there is no need to present a plan because everything can be a business. Of course, for the People's Party, yes; that's why the great business of the People's Party is to privatize health, privatize social services, privatize all public services, privatize education; privatization. There you are creating business, when these services had to be public and what you have to move, who has to be Galicia's economic engine has to be, as in all places in the world, industry. To promote vocational training with plans directed to unemployed persons and part-time contracts. No, no matter how much you now tell the president that there are more vocational training places. I tell them that in the province of Pontevedra, in cases I know directly, it was impossible for many workers who wanted out of the hours of their work to continue training to have access to training. There is no training for workers to recycle, train and improve their job position. Link – something that we have called for all legislation – economic aid to companies that have contracts with the Administration to transform temporary employment into indefinite and to reduce or eliminate the wage gap between men and women. Also, increase the number of full-time schedules and reduce part-time. But you refuse to link the recruitment of public administration with companies to job-related improvements. Then we found what we met, which then contracts end up rising at a price, because they don't cover, and that companies don't comply with the agreements by paying the wages marked in them. Betting for equality between men and women in the workplace. Yesterday we were talking about the Galician Statistical Plan and I was demanding a study of how we are going on equality, how society is moving forward. It's important to know where it's possible to put a remedy, it's important. It can't be that more than half of the population, because women represent more than half of the population, we're poor and we're doomed to be poor workers, we're doomed to be poorer, poor pensioners. I'm done. I hope to have the support – I suppose not from the People's Party – but I suppose when I'm in the opposition he'll be copying these initiatives to claim that the new Government will do them. Don't worry, that I hope the new government that leaves the autumn elections is a left-wing government that responds to all these needs. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to admit that it's always hard for me to intervene and talk after the president does. I believe that sovereignty and triumphalism are the worst companion that can have a president, the worst companion that can have a government, and I sleep at any time, at any time, in any circumstance, but especially at present, and especially in our country, where many people go through serious difficulties. Only as an exercise of basic solidarity should the president cut off a little bit in that exercise of triumphalism, because he also performs a tremendously devious speech. In employment policy, for example, the People's Party bases its employment policy on a trap, a trap where thousands of workers and workers in our country are trapped. An example. Each undefined full-time contract with a salary of 1,500 euros becomes three temporary part-time contracts of 500 euros. This sums up the employment policy of the People's Party: part-time contracts that are completed with days, overtime that are not perceived and translated into poor workers. That's the reality that workers live in our country. There are 17,400 jobs on the basis of illegal hours, illegal jobs in our country; one-hour contracts, one-week contracts, one-day contracts, precarious contracts. That's the job model of our country. And that's what the president doesn't talk about. That's our great drama: it doesn't talk about the reality of the country; therefore, it can't address solutions. In 2008, they worked in Galicia 46 million hours a week. This is the official data. In 2015 they worked in Galicia 35 million hours a week. So they've lost, 11 million hours have disappeared; more than 20% of the hours worked in our country have disappeared. So, how can we say that in Galicia it has grown, has increased employment if you work less hours? And the worst is not the loss of the number of hours worked. The worst thing is that the loss of jobs, the worsening of working days and working conditions, has come along with a policy of employment and absolutely disastrous industry. If we talk about financial tools, disappear from cash and sell the balance price of that financial tool, absolute paralysis of the Igape. If we're talking about the primary sector, closing thousands of agribusiness farms, the lowest milk prices across the state, without effective mechanisms to become a mere producer country to be a transformer country capable of industrializing its primary materials. If we talk about the fishing sector, from 2008 to 2015, 134 scraped boats, subsidized with 124 million public euros. Fisheries policy, scrapping policy. If we talk about the forest sector, Eucalyptus monoculture, which concentrates the third part of all hectares planted in this species throughout the state, especially for the company, the cellulose Ence industry. If we talk about sorting and setting tools in the value of our mountain, they get away with it. If we talk about industrial employment, the loss of 50,000 jobs in the industrial sector, the loss of more than 1,000 innovative companies, the drop in the country's innovation rate from 1.06% to 0.77% – official data. If we talk about public services (health, education), gross cuts, not only budgets, but also templates. If we talk about demography, in addition to all previous indicators, the loss of 75,000 inhabitants, and Mr. Feijóo does not know the official census, because he reviews this data. 70 young Greek girls who leave every day of our country. And all this without a plan to rescue researchers, the better-prepared generation of our history, without a youth employment plan, with a model of formative devaluation based on the transformation of university graduates into FP graduates to provide cheap labour for Central European countries. What is the future model of Mr. Feijóo, who pretends to be a triumphal new president of the Galician Union without the elections yet being held? What is the model that today has had the opportunity to reflect in response to the opposition's questions? For none, triumphalism, irresponsible triumphalism. We are going to support this initiative, because it opens so much a window from where they have to go their shots in a really effective employment policy for our country. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u59	Good morning, President, and good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, this initiative, which we have closed – let us say – debates on industry in this legislation, tells us about four basic points in the situation of industry, which we have also debated on repeated occasions, and the data are very, very clarifying. I also share the words of Mr Vázquez, who now spoke of how the president is drawing us always in the responses to the opposition to the worlds of Yupi, and if we go as often as possible to the situation of the Welsh industry after two laws and eight years: a fall almost like a castle of nypes, a loss of 50,000 industrial jobs, a drop of 1,000 technological research companies, when in Galicia in eight years three laws were passed on industry, innovation, research and recently on the social economy. So when we see R & D being talked about, if we're told that the Innovation Agency was the big bet, and if it fell from 1% of GDP to 0.82%, when researchers are asking that they can maintain their research careers, we understand from now on that that Galician industrial plan has to go beyond Industry 4.0, it has to go beyond RIS3, the words, the semantics and really commit to pragmatics and everyday doing. That's why we understand that the first point is very well brought to an industrial plan that has research and innovation – the two pillars: research and innovation – as fundamental axes. The second, only with regard to vocational training, is a subject also discussed when we were told from this House by the Education Adviser of that investment in vocational training – it will be in concert. The public schools are still asking for and claiming that they have more capacity to continue training in vocational training. And, well, I think here, in addition, it's still pending the debate about integrated centers and what's going to be their functionality and what's really going to be their future. With regard to the two remaining points, linking any economic aid to businesses, as well as contracts made with them to maintain employment, it was also a constant of this legislation. How many companies have we seen here that their workers and workers have come to manifest themselves, to ask that they keep their jobs, have they granted public aid to most of them? I'm going to set a very clear example, which, besides, now, recently, three years ago that these workers and workers have been locked up, such as T-Solar, a leading company, new technologies, young people prepared and trained and with many public aids, aids that have been lost, jobs that have been destroyed and the ship that is there – God knows, will not be used for anything – there in Ourense. Well, that's the reality. And we could keep quoting companies with public aids that closed their doors, which has to make us review from the very beginning what grant policies must be. And the last one. It is true that there is a guide to good practices in the field of equality in collective bargaining. I do want to be clear here, because, indeed, it's very difficult for them to get started. However, we are still waiting – and this is a constant – for the German Women's and Science Programme – of which an initiative has been approved... two initiatives – that would arrive in this House before the end of the legislation; it has not arrived; I don't know whether it will come tomorrow or last or during the month of August; we are losing that this Women's and Science programme will not arrive, where, in fact, these issues in the area of equality, of R & D+i, of the professional careers of girls and boys, of the revision of stereotypes in research and innovation. The fact is that the wage gap between men and women in Galicia is from the highest in Europe, as the rapporteur has already explained, and it looks elsewhere and doesn't even apply a valid law, which is Galicia's Equal Work Law. For all these reasons, we will support this initiative. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Quintas.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Martínez, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of this initiative. The Industry Spokesman of the Socialist Group, Mr Losada, on several occasions, proposed industrial plans for economic reactivation and put emphasis on the importance of employment in the industry. We believe from the Socialist Group that the industrial policy of the German Government has not solved any of the problems throughout all this time that are posed in the Autonomous Community of Galicia, except to benefit the particular interests of the large friendly companies of the People's Party. There is no economically developed country in which the industrial sector has an absolutely significant weight in economic activity, and that is parallel to the weight of gross domestic product and parallel to the occupation of workers. Of course, it's not Galician. This is not the case with Galicia, because this intention of industrial development is not reflected in the investment they make in budgets or in the execution of their own budgets or in the bet on innovation and development. Industrial employment, as we all know, is a better job of quality and much more stable and much less subject to seasonal variations than employment in services, which is basically employment, the data that the president of the board places above the table is employment in services, employment that is not particularly qualified, employment that is precarious, employment that the data puts above the table that we have poor workers, which is really a very worrying phrase. That is, apart from the number of unemployed men and women, without benefits, apart from the number of girls and boys who have to leave this country, there is a new understanding that is the poor employee. It is true that industrial employment can give greater stability to employment than jobs in the service sector, but there is a lack of wager on the part of the People's Party for this kind of job. There is no state, on the other hand, where research and development, innovation, do not play a relevant role and have a strong industrial fabric. So it's parallel too. When there's no bet on research and development, there's no strong industrial fabric. The EU average is around 16% and there is an objective within the 2020 Strategy to reach 20% by 2020. Galicia is on the edge of 11%, so absolutely distant from this strategy. There is also a long-term European industrial strategy, but that strategy does not include rotation in industrial employment, because rotation means reducing the possibility of innovation. The governments of the People's Party throughout their labour reforms, resulting in the weakening of collective bargaining, what they are achieving is an absolutely precarious job in all sectors. Moreover, if we add fiscal adjustment policies to these reforms on the one hand, the fall in private investment on the other, the loss of quality employment – as I said before – and a greater difficulty in integrating innovative processes, it makes it more difficult to compete internationally. He didn't bet the German Government despite... today morning we listened to the questions to the president and I had the feeling that the president in his replies to each speaker's question had practically prepared I think it looked like the investment debate or, of course, the opening of the electoral campaign. So they didn't bet on competing for a way of innovation, which would be reasonable, and it's a quality and future bet. The reality is that the only thing that is going on in this country, the only thing that is going on in Galicia is wages, which causes a lack of competitiveness and, on the other hand, a decrease in consumption. I mean, after a long way to be competitive in excellence, we're back to being competitive in cheap labor, and that's not the way. It's a regression that cannot be justified solely by the economic crisis. It's a regression that can only be...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u62	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u63	...justify the ideology. We are at the level of industrial occupation in 1996 and, of course, this situation shows that there is no strategy in the industrial policy of the German Government. Finally, as at first: we are going to support this initiative, because we believe it is important for Greek men and women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Arias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Democracy is a contrasting regime of opinions that evaluates the people, that is, I'm not going to say here that we have absolute truth, we have a management, not an absolute truth; the opposition, the different opposition groups have their opinions and assessments. We discriminate in the diagnosis, that is, in the set of figures. The selection of digits, the selection of data made by the opposition spokespersons, we did not share it. That is, in all its diagnosis, there is no indicator of growth..., –I'm sorry? – there is no indicator of growth. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I mean, I'm not going to insist on this because this is a debate we've had in committee and, in some ways, we repeat it here today. It was a proposal they presented to the House at this session, an industrial plan in Galicia, and, of course, this is an almost material impossibility. But we're going to discuss in depth whether there was industrial policy or not, whether there was economic policy or not. So the diagnosis we don't share, because if you're forgetting the positive elements of stopping the depression. Because here we forget that we've been in depression for years of GDP fall, that's forgotten, of active job destruction; now it's growing, you have to explain why. Didn't you have anything to do with the Government of the People's Party in the whole of Spain from 2011 onwards? Didn't you have anything to do with the Government of Galicia since 2009? I mean, what's going on? So, that is, all the investment factors of a depression trend, of great recession, can be attributed to the part that depends on political power to the People's Party. That is the defense – so to speak – in terms of opinion, not a dogma, not a science, but we believe that this did not come out in the debate and should go out. There is another question at the bottom of the proposals, that is, it is considered that there is no direct political action. I could really introduce here all the elements of the agendas of competitiveness, of mobilisations etc., etc., of the strategy of smart specialization, of consultations with trade unions and business organizations to make concerted policies, of all changes and changes, of how the dynamics of the naval sector when the People's Party comes to govern, as it is now, as is the automotive sector, as is the whole sector. The undervalue that is made in this diagnosis and really the importance of the set of jobs, which in many cases are not suitable, but are far superior to previous hopeless unemployment situations. And there's one thing at the bottom of my trial that is always dragging down the absolute critical diagnoses and, as it may be, there are problems. It's therefore an induction of facts on unfounded global diagnoses. I mean, all the recovery processes after a great recession can actually say that they are almost unlikely if there is no important economic policy, a very active economic policy, changes in rules of play, dynamisation, assumption and change with regard to crisis situations that are due to an excessive spending process, economic waste in certain types of sectors that are financed by external indebtedness and leave large sectors of aggregate demand broken, and therefore large social sectors with no capacity for demand and production. That's what happened before. So that's getting an inverter; that's to say, not enough, of course, not enough. But those who have an interest in analyzing economic history, the history of crises, the processes of escape from crises, can say that in this case there is a much greater dynamic than they were in other times – think of the crisis of the 29, think of the crisis of the 81, think of other crises of the 1990s, other levels. And what happened in some places? Even in some places they were in chronic stagnation processes and very serious structural problems, which is not the case. I mean, and therefore the Spanish valuation, the Greek valuation in the whole of the international economy, I can say that you're receiving very significant levels of approval. That we must not say triumphalism that everything is already done, but if we can say that it has indeed been addressed, if the depression has stopped and if it is in a process of continuous and hopeful recovery. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Arias. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u67	Thank you, President. Well, I really think the People's Party is holding onto those four words of that propaganda legislation: RIS3, Industry 4.0, but reality goes on the other side. The reality is that propaganda doesn't solve the problems, nor the big statements. I was now saying the spokesperson of the People's Party that to get out of the recession... as if the recession had only affected Galicia. Because I'm making comparisons with the rest of the state, that's what I did, I suppose the recession affected the whole state. Why does Galicia have worse results after these four years than the rest of the state? Why does unemployment continue to rise here while it is reduced in the state? Why do we still have the lowest wages here? Instead of going to the state, what we're going to be distancing ourselves from the state. That's what the People's Party doesn't answer. He doesn't answer why our productive sectors are unable to take off and lead the economy. But he didn't say anything about why there are no vocational training squares. You put your mouth in telling them that it is necessary to train to have more skilled workers and workers and to improve production. But the truth is that people with precarious work cannot access training, there is no training outside working hours, as exists in the rest of the civilized countries of the world, so that the working class can continue to train and advance with new technologies. You don't tell me how you don't get rubies to keep that pay gap above the average of the state between men and women. Why are they still condemning more than half the population to being poor, simply because of being women? He didn't tell me any measure to keep women from having most of the part-time contracts, women from having the most eventuality. They didn't put anything in favour of reconciliation being something that affects men and women. It's not normal for most day-to-day reductions to take care of children or dependent women to pick them up, while only 6 percent of men take that day-to-day reduction. And that's because in families who reduce the day's work, it's who has less pay; therefore, it's women. Their actions force women to remain poor for the rest of their lives. You say the European Union is amazed at the good we're doing. That's why we're going to have to pay a lot, because we don't know how to do things, because we're trying to fool not only the people but also the European Union itself. And, to the full of evils, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, in case everything was wrong, you devoted yourself to taking the funds that came from Europe for cooperation, which came from Europe for development, putting it in tax havens, putting it into meaningless works, at airports without planes, on roads that don't take anywhere. You were a ranch for this country...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u69	...and I hope that we can really have a Galicia this fall in the future when this Parliament's PP disappears. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. The following proposal is from the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the Transatlantic Treaty on Trade and Investment, which is negotiating the United States of America and the European Union. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. on the initiative of Mr Sánchez García and five other Members, on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the Transatlantic Treaty on Trade and Investment (TTIP), which are negotiating the United States of America and the European Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u71	An amendment from the Socialist Group was tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u72	Mr Sánchez has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u73	Good morning again. Well, we have a proposal for the Galician Parliament to stand against the TTIP, the Transatlantic Treaty. We were told, when the crisis broke out, that it was due to the devastation of the speculative economy, the voracity of capitalism, the deregulation of the financial system, etc. We were told that the financial system should be more regulated, that capitalism should be frozen, and that a parenthesis should be made. And instead, eight years later, we seem to be given the opposite medicine from the European institutions, i.e., more deregulation, more pitch to deregulate the financial system, more field to privatize public services, more field to lower environmental quality standards, etc. The Transatlantic Treaty and its defenders talk about removing barriers to the free market, but they talk about this when there is a context where tariffs are already in many insignificant or very low cases. And when they mean removing barriers to the free market, they're talking about nothing but labor legislation, environmental legislation and public services, and that's very dangerous. We also wondered if there was any reflection on the Brexit triumph in Britain, which attempted to caricature itself by saying that all those who voted in favour of that exit were xenophobics, etc. And of course there were xenophobic arguments, but there were many citizens who saw themselves with speeches in which they asked for more democracy and more sovereignty, asked to decide about the laws that affected them daily in their lives. And that is an argument that we should not forget if we really want to build a Europe that works and not that goes to the gate, as if we are going right now, precisely because of the lack of democracy, because we cannot decide on matters that affect us on a daily basis. And I have to say it's not a TTIP issue alone. In recent years we have been suffering a process of loss of sovereignty that affects us in many of our daily affairs. For example, if this Parliament approves a large-scale tax because of its impact on employment or on the environment, and it is intended as a finalist tax for the empowerment of local trade, a sovereign decision of a Parliament that wants to define a specific business model, because the European authorities would do what they have already done with other autonomous communities that have approved it: to threaten with sanctions, to threaten with retroactive charges, etc., that is to say it is discriminatory with the poor large areas. And that's what I call the loss of sovereignty. Or the loss of sovereignty of Galicia, when approved, the bodies of the European institutions, the Single Market Law, which was approved by the little girls and without a citizen and social debate by Mr Rajoy's Government. Well, this progressive loss of sovereignty would have a very important feature of being approved as TTIP. Recently, the CETA ratification process has begun, which is something similar but with an agreement with Canada. Fortunately, it had to be ratified by the twenty-eight States of the European Union. That's very positive news. But we also claim that Galicia has something to say about the ratification of CETA, because, if that treaty is adopted, it will affect many of the laws that we have approved in this Parliament and that they will be left on paper if it is approved. And CETA is very similar – as I said – to the transatlantic Treaty, and we believe that this Europe needs more democracy and more sovereignty to decide policies. And we would also ask ourselves whether European citizens consider lowering barriers to free trade among their priorities, they consider such agreements to be priority rather than those agreements because they fight against inequality and poverty. I believe that, if Europe really works with democracy, the negotiating priorities would be other and the agents negotiating would be others. Why did you trade this treaty for years? For the great American and European multinationals. And who defends that this treaty is not approved? Who fights this treaty? So many American and European workers, too, because they know it's an instrument that only benefits those transnationals. It also creates a specific conflict resolution body for business claims, considering that the complaint always comes from companies against States when they pass legislation. It's a privatization of justice, as Justice has just manifested by Democracy, a very dangerous privatization of justice. They also want companies to be able to apply for heritage responsibilities because, for example, if the minimum wage of workers is increased or if environmental criteria are tightened, etc. That's what this treaty is about. So when it comes to regulatory harmonisation, when they talk about harmonizing the regulations between the United States and the European Union, that means a reduction in standards, not an improvement, because, when they say they want to eliminate barriers, it is obviously not for the United States to tighten up the rules against transgenics, for example, that are much more hardened in the European Union than in the United States, or for example through plant protection treatments or food treatments. So it will mean lower standards, and it will have an impact on our agriculture, which is one of the few sectors that does maintain high tariffs. And we will have to ask ourselves whether what we need in Europe, a surplus continent in food production, is to reduce tariffs, to make food from the United States cheaper and compete against European farmers, who are already in danger of disappearing – I don't know if that's what we want – or will have an impact on environmental legislation or public services, also where private interest is prioritized, as well as the private interest in many of the laws passed by the Spanish Government in recent years, leaving on paper Article 130 of the Spanish Constitution, which subordinates everything to public interest. Well, this treaty prioritizes all instruments that promote market freedom, in view of the general interest, which for us is represented in the sovereignty of States, and this treaty does not consider States somewhat impartial, but rather considers as a part and also an enemy of their interests. And finally, it also affects financial services. I don't know if what's needed here is to give you income again to the speculative financial performance of the banks or we need the opposite, which is to regulate that speculative activity. So we are talking about a very important issue, a very important issue, and where we believe that the Galician Parliament must stand on the side of democracy, the recovery of national sovereignty, so declare Galicia free from the TTIP, oppose this TTIP and join in the struggle at European level against these instruments that are contrary to democracy. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u74	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u75	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. What AGE is asking for on this initiative is that the Galician Council declare Galicia a free country of the TTIP. At this I would make two small observations. First, if this agreement is signed and Galicia stays out, who are we going to trade with? And the second: given that this agreement is not signed and even doubts whether it can be signed in this European Parliament legislation which will end in 2019, what treaty do we want to get out of? Or is what you're thinking about economic protectionism and not the free market? That we do not enter into the International Trade Agreement would in fact translate into a commercial isolation, making imports and exports from Greece very difficult. Today, the process of globalization is unstoppable, and companies that want to compete with it have to do in the world market and not in a market that is confined to a territory. It's not about protectionism, it's about fair trade. From our point of view, what we have to fight is to do a good job and set quality standards that can be crossed into other agreements. If we mark the rules with the developing countries, which, in fact, have greater labour and environmental protection, we can also demand this with the least developed countries. We work to get a good deal, so that Spain and Galicia can aim to stimulate trade and investment between the European Union and the United States, eliminating tariff and non-tariff barriers. The TTIP is of geopolitical importance that goes beyond purely economic matters. The recent Asia-Pacific summit has demonstrated China's global leadership, which has achieved support for its Asia trade liberalization plan. West cannot stay behind, Europe needs to regain leadership on the new world stage. This agreement is also a project of enormous economic transcendence, because it would give rise to the world's largest free trade area, with a population of 820 million people, a GDP equivalent to 60% of world GDP and a volume of trade transactions currently valued at 960 million euros a year. The economic effects of the TTIP, both for the European Union as a whole and for Spain, would be particularly positive. This agreement would increase the European Union's GDP annually by around 120 million euros and it is expected that it will create around 1.3 million jobs. Spain would be the fourth country most benefited from the agreement, behind the United Kingdom, Sweden and Ireland, with a per capita GDP rising by 6.5%. We socialists defend a broad and deep agreement between the European Union and the United States, but not any agreement, and I want this to be clear. Our final position will be defined in the light of the general results of the negotiations; in no case will we accept an agreement with the United States which would prejudice the interests of European, Spanish and German citizenship; I repeat: in no case. European levels of protection are not subject to change, the high level of protection of what we enjoy in Europe is non-negotiable, we will not sign anything that endangers our state of well-being, and I want this to be clear. Our main claims are: firstly, absolute preservation of the European Union's social and environmental protection standards, including the protection of labour rights and consumer rights. Two, adequate transparency in the negotiation process; there can be no secret or dark negotiations. Three, we asked the Government of Spain to conduct a TTIP impact study for our country in order to make data decisions. Four, which incorporates a dispute resolution mechanism in the field of labour. Five, which guarantees the protection and privacy of the data. Six, mutual recognition of professional qualifications. Seven, market regulation and financial services, which cannot suffer from attacks by investment funds to the European Union that put governments in check. Eight, the withdrawal of the arbitration system for the resolution of conflicts between investors and states, the famous ISDS. Nine, it must be pointed out that the liberalisation of public services at all levels of the administration, including the local level, as well as the concession scheme, is excluded from the negotiation. We'll make beautiful marriages, gentlemen, because this is part of our DNA and we won't allow the welfare state to change. I also cannot understand certain political positions, since on 10 May 2016 there was a vote in the European Parliament in which the European Union opposed the granting of the state of economics of the market in China. It was adopted by a vast majority: 546 votes in favour, 28 against and 77 abstentions, with the favourable vote of representatives of all the political groups that make up Parliament, outside the Eurosceptics and the far right. Left Unida voted against and We can and Bildu abstained. This is relevant, because it denotes that both the United Left and the Podemos do not care that the status of market economy is granted to China, which would largely affect trade and industry, since they could apply...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u76	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u77	...–Yes, finished, President – to China the anti-subsidy and anti-dumping measures that the European Union is implementing today. I mean, the United Left and We may want to put a stop to the United States, which is a country with relatively high labour and environmental standards, but it is in favour of giving ease to China, which is a country with much lower labour and environmental standards. Honestly, I don't understand. We socialists, we're not going to go that way and we're going to bet on a treaty with the features already listed. Let them all be very clear. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u78	Thank you, Mr. Santín. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u79	Good morning. Thank you, President. The Transatlantic Treaty on Trade and Investment is a trade agreement between the European Union and the United States that aims to equate the rules to both sides of the Ocean. First of all, to point out that in the United States, the International Labour Organization conventions are not even recognized. The European Commission and the United States Government and large companies are selling the agreement to us as a means of definitive antidote against the crisis. They say it promotes growth and it will generate jobs, but what is being negotiated, in no secret, is to lower environmental, labour and health regulations. They want to eliminate barriers to trade to create a large market that benefits businesses and generates jobs, but the truth, reality, is that what they call barriers are the rules that regulate... –President, please –... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u80	Yes, silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u81	... –Thank you – and protect our social and environmental rights. If this trade treaty is allowed to be signed, it will be the largest transfer of power to large corporations that we have seen in many generations. In complete secrecy, since June 2013, and although all documents of the European institutions should be public, negotiations have been classified as confidential. I say that it will be fear of the strong refusal by the citizenry, if you know what reality is, as has already occurred with the transatlantic agreement of the year 95, which had to be ruled out by social opposition. This treaty of what we are talking about poses, ladies and gentlemen, a threat to democracy, the rule of law, labour rights, the protection of the environment and the rights of consumers. It is a threat to democracy, because 92% of the meetings hosted by Brussels took place between the European Commission and private lobbies; only 4% had representatives of civil society; or the same thing, 520 of the 560 meetings were held with the private sector and only 26 with public interest groups. This makes it impossible for civil society to have access to information and thus to ensure that public interests are being protected. Despite this secrecy, the filtration of several secret documents shows that the European Union is prepared to negotiate the liberalization of social and public services to provide unlimited access to American multinationals on European markets. In addition to promoting privatization, this agreement limits the ability of governments to regulate public services, in favour of multinationals, to those who grant new privileges and guarantees, even offering them the possibility of legally challenging public policies. Thus, States will lose their sovereignty in recovering the management of these services, even if the provision on the part of companies is not of quality or too expensive. And if companies operating in the European Union think that their profitability is not the desired one, they will have the ability to sue States by demanding millionaire compensation on behalf of public buildings. In order to achieve the priority objective of this treaty, the increase in transatlantic trade, it is necessary to eliminate standards and regulations in order to equate trade standards between the European Union and the Americans. One of these rules which the European Commission itself regards as barriers to free trade is the precautionary principle, which is currently in force. According to this principle, there are doubts about the effects on health or the environment is sufficient for authorities to restrict or prohibit the use of a product or technology. The precautionary principle is what has so far avoided the indiscriminate use of, for example, hormones in the flesh or the proliferation of certain pesticides. In the agreements, American companies press to suppress it, to increase exports, and, in turn, Europeans, large corporations, blame him for weakness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u82	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u83	...to place them – I am finished – at a disadvantage. Food, medicine and other products shall not be subject to controls. We depend on our environment, on the clean air we breathe, on the biodiversity that feeds us and cleanses our waters. We won't be able to feed ourselves on oil, contaminated water, nor the money they love the big companies on the two continents they're pushing. So the Joint Group will vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u84	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Galician Nationalist Block Group, Mr. Jorquera Caselas has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u85	Thank you, Madam President. This proposal, in its basic contents, coincides with that which was discussed in full on 29 October 2014, on that occasion at the initiative of the BNG, and also with the proposal advocated by the BNG in Commission 3rd April 9, 2015. Since they have been rejected, I hope – of course, in excess of optimism – that the AGE initiative is better off. Because, as we have stated in that debate, the TTIP not only compromises fundamental social and economic rights. To compromise, even compromises the future of democracy itself, and a principle intimately bound to it as the right of all the people to freely decide their future. Buy it in forms and compromise it in the background. In this way, because we are negotiating in secret, with total lack of transparency and democratic control; and in the end, because the TTIP intends to commit a real blow to the service of multinationals. Through the mechanism for resolving conflicts between investors and States, it is intended to subject discrepancies on foreign investment to private arbitral proceedings. There are already precedents in other bilateral treaties of what this means. Let me remind you of examples I have already put in those debates. The Republic of Uruguay, for example, was sentenced to pay Philip Morris a million-dollar compensation for making a rule requiring him to appear in tobacco packages that smoke harm health. Multinational Veolia at the time demanded the Egyptian Government for the serious crime of raising the minimum wage to 31 euros, claiming that this decision affected the economic balance of the waste collection contract in Alexandria, which it was concessionary. Finally, through this mechanism, if a government wishes to renationalize privatized sectors or introduce regulatory changes to protect the public sector and the general interest, it can be denounced before these courts. The TTIP compromises the future of public services and fundamental social and economic rights. Look, the question is: how can a single market be created with regulatory frameworks as diverse as those in the United States and the European Union? And the answer is simple: by deregulation, by bringing the European model closer to the US model, where regulation is much more lasa, although for that we have to make a rough table of state, national and European legislation itself. One example was Mr Fonseca, who was the director of the European Commission's representation in the Spanish State. In Europe, the precautionary principle is based on the statement by the spokesperson of the Joint Group and the AGE spokesman; if there are doubts about the possible negative effects on the health of an ingredient, its marketing is prohibited. This makes, for example, that in the field of cosmetics in Europe there are 1,328 prohibited substances and in the United States, 11. The solution Mr. Fonseca gave: that they can all be marketed, setting a warning on the label. According to Mr Fonseca, this is giving the consumer responsibility. We give him another name: disgruntling, making a rough table of laws, even in the protection of health, to serve the cravings for the accumulation of multinationals. If these agreements are materialized, they will in practice make it impossible for governments to implement policies that depart from the imperialist and neoliberal principles that are being undermined by the TTIP. Privatization elements are being negotiated into public services, setting up a small list of those who cannot be privatized. It is also negotiating a public procurement model designed according to large multinationals at the cost of sacrificing the local productive fabric. In the labour market, the equalization of European and American labour regulations will mean setting even more limits to the right to trade union, further limiting the scope of collective agreements, further cutting labour rights. It is enough to say that the United States has only subscribed to two of the eight key ILO conventions. Harmonisation in environmental policies will also have negative consequences, since European legislation is much more demanding. And liberalisation in the agricultural sector will make our farms have to compete in inferior conditions with American, more intensive and lower health costs. The removal of all kinds of barriers in the marketing of agri-food products will eventually destroy our agricultural model. And so we could go on, Members and Members. In conclusion, the TTIP is paying attention to the basic right of a people to have their own economic base. The TTIP means to raze with the people's sovereignty. The TTIP attacks the foundations of democracy itself by placing, above the people, transcendental decisions in the economic environment that will condition the well-being of people. For all these reasons, we are going to give the new vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u86	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. The People's Group has the floor Mr. Trenor Lopez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, today he spoke of humility, he spoke of knowledge, he also spoke of ethics, and I wanted to ask him, Mr. Sánchez, if you wake up when he said that the People's Party poisoned with arsenic and nickel the crowns just to benefit the accounts of a company. Do you remember that? Do you remember that? That's his ethic. Look, all existing, public and private studies agree to point out that the agreement is positive. The economic impact of the treaty on the European Union is estimated at EUR billions in terms of economic growth: more exports, more economic activity, more job creation and higher wages. Maintaining our social model requires that we also maintain our economic strength, and the opportunity to reach a global agreement with the United States is a historic opportunity. That's why it's not clear that this opposition wants to live from behind in the world. We cannot be victims of prejudices, of mantras, of phobias from the far left against any agreement balanced with the world's first economic power, with which we also share the defense of an essential core of democratic values, which do not share other States, other States where you will do your practices. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you don't care what I tell you, you don't care about the conclusions of hundreds of reports or the lessons that the story gives us about trade, because – look where you look – the increase in trade improves per capita income. For you this agreement is an imposition of a model of society promoted by multinationals eager to increase their benefits. You don't say it, it's true, you don't say it, Marine Le Pen says it. Because the totalitarian capitalism of the extreme left and the extreme right are united. You're with Le Pen, with Donald Trump, with Beppe Grillo, with Golden Dawn. United against capitalism, united against free trade, against freedoms, against the rule of law, against the liberal rule of law, against private property. [[Applause]] You are united against Europe. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But you are also against the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Association for purely ideological prejudices, for the worst of sectarianisms. You deny reality and systematically use false arguments, fabricated arguments, fictitious arguments. It is not true that there are no limits to negotiation, of course there are limits to negotiation! and if not, where do you think the Socialist Party's amendment came from? This amendment is nothing more than the limits put by the European Parliament and the Council to the Commission. That was the amendment presented by the Socialist Party. It is false that this treaty can affect basic public services: education, health, social security. There is no European Union trade agreement that restricts or limits the freedom of States to manage their own public services. And besides, the European Commission has no mandate to be able to negotiate on this or it is doing so. You're talking about deregulation and cheating again, you're fooling again. Because it's not just that they're wrong, it's that to make that mistake crazier, you have to invent fictitious scenarios. Who told you that there are no controls on the American market, or that they have less demands or standards of quality than ours? Who told them that? Do you or do you know? No, and there they're all repeating it, as if it were a matter of faith. Do you know that to export certain agricultural products the export procedure lasts more than fourteen years? That sometimes Spanish companies have to bring, paying with their own resources, export inspectors to make sure that these exports can be safe for them? Do you think it's good for our automotive sector and the auxiliary sector that our quality and safety demands aren't enough for the American automotive market? Do you think the drugs that cure cancer in Europe aren't good enough to cure cancer there? Well, that's what's happening now, and that's exactly what we're trying to fix with the treaty. That's it, ladies, that's harmonizing. False, absolutely false everything you said about the arbitration system. Inventions. False what he says about the designations of origin, the standards of environmental quality, the loss of sovereignty. False what you say about multinationals. You're on the bully, you're stuck in deception, denial of reality, but it's a lot of marketing that you're doing... –Welcome, Mr. Beiras, welcome. It's good time. [[Applause]] No matter how much marketing you're doing, it's not about smiling, nor are it about democracy, nor are you about participation. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u89	...you're the ones with hatred, there's no more to see Mr. Beers' face. But go on, gentlemen, go on... people know them, they've already lost a million votes and they're going to lose more. [[Murmurs.]] Because when people know what you are, when people get to know them, they don't vote for them again. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u90	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. Mr Sánchez García has the floor for the author group of the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u91	Yes. First, look wherever you want and see where I said you were poisoning the people of the Coruña with arsenic. Find him, I daresay, because he lied. I never said that, among other things, because, when I discussed it with you – and I think it was chosen, so the collation brings it – it was not yet done the transvasion project; therefore, I could not say it; therefore, mind. He's already started lying, he's the first to say. Search wherever you want, in the minutes, in the videos, wherever you want. Good. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Then you bought me Marine Le Pen. Look, there's no National Front in Spain because there's the PP, and the far right is in that party. Just for that. You're the far right, there's no need for Marine Le Pen here. [[Applause]] You talked about TTIP having something to do with cancer healing. Look, to cure cancer, what you need is that you don't dismantle public health and don't privatize it. To cure cancers and other diseases, they do not need to defend precisely what the TTIP wants, which is to protect the patents of pharmaceuticals. So that people don't die, it's basic for you not to do what you've done with hepatitis C patients, who are charged, the first government charged with health cuts, Mr. Trenor. That's what it takes, and there's no need for free trade to protect that. Precisely, the most efficient method of protecting people's health and dignity was the public system, public services, public health. What brought here that people could treat themselves properly in health was public health. What brought the children of workers and workers to study were the public education services, Mr Trenor, not the privatization of the public education service, as the Treaty on Free Trade aims. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand, I think you do not know the standards and demands in food in the United States and Europe. I do, I know; and, then, you're lying. When you talk about harmonizing, what you're trying to do is to lower these standards, to do what you've wanted for a long time, for example, Monsanto, which is to massively introduce yourself into Europe, and the citizen resistance has made it possible for them not to enter for now. Look, Mr. Santín, I'm sorry I had to beat you up. I think that in the Socialist Party's DNA it shouldn't be TTIP's defense, I think it's the opposite. Are you talking about a negotiation between Europe and the United States? He's not working on Europe and America. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They've been negotiating American multinationals with European multinationals, and the disadvantaged will be American workers and workers and workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u93	...European. That's the goal. We're talking about transparency. Where is transparency in negotiation? Where was the transparency of the negotiation if you still don't know in all the terms you've negotiated?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u94	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u95	If you let me, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u96	Yes, it's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u97	The TTIP is to deepen precisely what it has brought us to this moment. It is to deepen precisely in what it has done, for example, to refuse to belong to the European Union, since there is a request for greater democracy and greater sovereignty. And opposing the TTIP is defending democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u98	Mr. Sánchez, on the amendment of the Socialist Group?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u99	We don't accept it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u100	All right. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín, on the presentation by the Government of the Greek Government of a plan for the recovery and direct public exploitation of the hydroelectric jumps existing in Galicia at the end of its concession, as well as the information on the conditions established for its grant
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u101	He was presented with two amendments, one from the Socialist Group and one from the Popular Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u102	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Adam has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u103	Thank you very much, President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen. Today we're going to debate on an already recurring issue, but we're going to do it from another perspective. In this legislation we've closed, we've talked a lot about electrical production, electricity prices, energy poverty and the design of electrical production in Galicia. In fact, one of the fundamental arguments that we use from the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group to demand or at least try to study and analyze the possibility of a Welsh electric tariff, is the design of electrical production itself. The fact that we have cheers, that we have leaps, since the mid-1960s of the past century – many are earlier, but the biggest ones, as I will argue later, are at that time –, made at that time, besides, with public investments, with public money, which was then transferred to private companies in the last twenty-five years of the 20th century, makes us great producers of electricity, not only by wind, thermal, but mainly by hydraulic energy. It is a design that at its time was thought mainly to supply electricity to Madrid, something we can see simply if we enter the official pages of the National Electric Network and see how it is produced and how it is currently consumed in the Spanish State. For that design of electrical production today we want to bring it to debate, because wind energy in Galicia is fundamental, but the creation of dams and cheers assumed at its moment of displacement of people, destabilization of valleys, houses, villages; and they had and have great environmental costs. And the question is, what was the counterpart? What were the social clauses that existed in the creation of these arrangements? Or what were the economic benefits to have a greater impact on electricity? None. In addition, we can go to the minutes of Commission 6a, where we put this question to the Government of Greece, and we have literally been asked that the only encouragement it has at this time is that of Caldas, which is, in addition – I want to remember – a mini hydraulic power plant. Of all hydraulic power stations – which are exactly 44 in Galicia – none have social clauses that are known. They may be lost in a small letter, but, according to the Government's reply, none of them have. And I want to remember that we have, for example, hydraulic power stations like the Eume power plant in 1960, which is currently operated by Endesa; or, for example, that of Ezaro, on the river Xallas, since 1957, by Ferroatlantica; we have Belesar since 1963 – I am talking about the year of deployment – operated by Natural Gas; that of the Pears, since 1954, also operated by Natural Gas; that of Monteforado, since 1956, by Iberdrola. I'm doing a school in different provinces. If we pass on to Ourense, we have, for example, San Estevo since 1957, by Iberdrola; that of Castrelo de Mine, since 1969, which we all certainly have in mind what this implies, exploited by Natural Gas. Or, for example – to catch another – in Ulla, in Portodemouros, in 1967, by Natural Gas. They're a school, and I've taken those, in addition, that have a greater power in kilowatts right now, since the sixties' sixties -- the end of the fiftieth -- that were actually built with public money; that they belonged to the INI and were then transferred. It's the companies that now make the biggest profits, because it's the energy production that brings the biggest benefits to electricity-producing companies. We see it in Endesa, Natural Gas and Iberdrola, for taking an example. So what we propose on this initiative is not something we say breaker, but if we understand it's novel because it's a recovery plan. Many of them do not have the dates – because even if that documentation has been requested – we do not count on when the concessions are completed, but many are at the last moments of the concessions, because they were fifty or seventy-five years. And we understand that, when these concessions end, they must be rescued for public exploitation, so that the benefits are in the public domain. That is why we are considering the presentation of a plan for the direct recovery and public exploitation of hydroelectric leaps by the creation of a public company in Greece before the end of the concession period, counting on the elaboration of the plan with the participation of the municipalities concerned, because of course they are affected and should create a source of wealth. As soon as we meet, I say, from the question we asked the Government, there are no social clauses, just in the mini hydraulics of Caldas, where there are social clauses which, according to the Government, are fulfilling the concessionaire itself. The second point – far more ambitious than the first – is to provide information on the conditions for the concession of hydroelectric jumps. That at least they contemplate the end of the concession year; and it would be good to have the social clauses of granting and complying with them in the public domain. Requesting – if necessary – information relevant to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment and the Mining-Sil Hydrographic Confederation, where the largest number of large hydraulic power stations is concentrated. I bring here a map of Galicia so you can see how we've developed the territory, but, if you're not photocopyed in color, you can't see it. We have the land full of big jumps and small mini-centres, and we have no economic compensation of any kind for these environmental and human and displacement costs, and in addition to the generation of the high-voltage lines that then have to transport all that energy, which – as you know very well from the honourable Members – is consumed in real time and must therefore be immediately produced, transported and therefore consumed elsewhere. So well into the 21st century, in 2016, the revision of concessions and the revision of the benefits that the power plants of the Great Hydraulics make, we understand that it is an important issue, a question to debate in this last plenary, and it would also be of public interest to Galicia that we could count on the recovery of those power stations to the public and that we could also count on a more argumentation in order to defend the Greek electricity tariff, in order to defend itself to have a different price from light. It is a pity – so I want to say – that you are sleeping to ILP that it has been accepted for its processing the dream of the righteous – or of the unjust, I don't know – because it will no longer be debated or analysed in this legislation. It's a work that stays there, all the work we've done together about the situation of energy poverty and the situation of electricity in Galicia. I hope that other Members and Members will continue to do this work and we can see a Welsh electric tariff and recovered hydraulic leaps – because they make use of public goods, which is water – also for public exploitation. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gallego Calvar has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u105	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. By preparing this intervention – which I do in place of my colleague Abel Losada – I have remembered that in the past legislative process, at the plenary session of this Parliament on such a day as February 8, 2011, we reached an agreement between all political groups, unanimously, which I believe was an important agreement, although it is also true that today surely an important part of it is not developed. In fact, some of the issues that Mrs. Adam was demanding at her initiative, to which we have tabled an amendment from the Socialist Group to point one, were already included in that unanimous agreement. But the administrations concerned by that agreement, which were the autonomics and the power plant, did not carry them out. We therefore agreed among all of us that we recognized the overexploitation of the rivers in Galicia; that we recognized that new hydroelectric uses should not be granted in June and July 2005; that we should avoid the construction of the 33 new hydroelectric power plants that were included in the draft of the hydrological plan of the hydroelectric demarcation of Galicia-Costa; that we should introduce in the hydrological plan a regime of ecological flows for existing concessions, in consultation with companies; and that we should declare, among other things, that the rivers of Galicia free from new hydroelectric uses – I insist – except reconstitutions. It is unfortunate that this important agreement, which was unanimously adopted in the past legislation, is not yet being developed today, because a part of what Mrs. Adam claims today in her initiative would no longer be necessary. In any case, since the Socialist Group, we have made it clear that if Galicia had a renewable energy policy, we wouldn't be in the situation today. And it should have as its objective – that it does not have – to electrify energy consumption, because Galicia should be at the forefront of fulfilling the international protocols on environmental protection and the objectives of the European Union by 2020; that is, progressively eliminating the use of fossil fuels, the sooner the better. We should be producing electricity with renewable energy, which are the only ones that can produce no consumption or loss of fossil energy; besides, its cost has been reduced so much in recent years, that they can compete with gas, with coal and, more importantly, with nuclear energy. As a result, we could have better energy services in our country than the current oligopolies. The fossil energy-producing countries would have less power to impose our original prices, and they would also have less power by oil companies to impose our destiny prices. But for that, it takes energy policy that is at the service of general interest, with medium- and long-term objectives and a strategy to achieve them. Galicia should be taking advantage of that window of opportunity offered by international environmental protocols and our geographic position, which for once is an advantageous position, at least in renewable energy. It should be giving priority to the interests of consumers, supporting those of lower economic capacity and industries. And it should also be promoting innovation, to develop all possibilities for storage of renewables. Renewable hydraulic energy would also have to be reviewing its proposals. And the management of hydroelectrics, which today basically have a storage character rather than production character, and which in addition to using public resources, must be at the service of the whole electrical system and deduct from its remuneration the extraordinary benefits of survival that produce to them the marginal price determined by fossil fuels, so they would also have to be doing all this work. But since neither the People's Party nor the Government of Galicia are interested in having a policy on renewable energies in the medium and long term, today we have this parliamentary agreement unfulfilled and, in addition, hydroelectric companies are not leaving any benefits in our country, from there our amendment. Our amendment aims to set the same precedent as the hydroelectric companies that sat in the wind competition. That is to say, a plan for the recovery and exploitation of hydroelectric leaps is presented and, before the end of the concession, for the new concessions to public participation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u106	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u107	...from Junta de Galicia, counting for the elaboration of the aforementioned plan with the participation of the municipalities. I insist, a precedent that has already been seated on the Wind Plan and that today has not yet been taken into account by the Government of the People's Party. I hope that Mrs Adam will accept the amendment we tabled by the Socialist Group to point 1 and, if so, we would vote in favour of the whole initiative. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u108	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. For the People's Group, Mr. Trenor Lopez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, the production of hydroelectric energy is carried out by granting concessions for the use of hydraulic public domain. The proposal is on the initiative of private companies which finance the assembly of power stations and their deployment. Yes, in anticipation of their future reversal of the works to the administration once the deadline for the vigil is over. Since the public good is the use of water, its exploitation, its hydroelectric use, it is subject to strict control by the competent administration, whether autonomous or state. And because it couldn't be otherwise, from the administration, it's always required to promote electrical companies to comply with both the concessional clauses and the prevailing legislation, not only the hydraulic legislation, but also the environmental and urban legislation. Each hydroelectric use responds to a different situation, derived from its concessional situation. Today, as we already know thanks to the reply of the director of Galician Waters in Commission 2a to a question from the Galician Nationalist Block on the same subject, there are two procedures for the declaration of extinction of hydroelectric concessions by the conclusion of their concessional deadline, which correspond to the uses called Fervenzas and Güimil, in the rivers Vexo and Lambre. In these proceedings, the issue of the technical report is pending, in which the decision on reversion of works and installations and the mode of its management, or on its demolition, should be taken. Even so, it has also ended on June 17th the Castellana jump in the river Mandeo, and they are close to finishing, in 2017, the jumps of Ponte Inferno, Portochao and Closure. It is true that in these last two amendments there are amendments which envisage an increase in their concessional deadline. As regards the jumps of Castellana and Ponte Inferno, as explained by the director of the Galician Waters in the commission, the corresponding administrative files will be initiated to declare the termination of the concessions. Having said that, I suppose, in addition to your lordships are aware of the administrative procedure, but I would like to remind you that the extinction of the right to private use of water in an administrative concession does not work automatically, but it is necessary to process an administrative record that ends with the resolution that expressly declares its extinction. It is a complex procedure, where it must be said whether it is possible and convenient to continue the use or whether, on the other hand, it is considered to be inviolable use or its maintenance contrary to public interest. In one case, the concessionaire may require the delivery of the object assets of the reversal in operating terms, and in another case, the concessional holder may be required to demolition the building. So we're talking about a complex subject. It's not as simple as the approach made by the Nationalist Block on its initiative, since this analysis must take into account conditionalities both purely legal and environmental, social and economic, with indications on the extinction of the ownership of the facilities and on the management of the use if it decides to continue the exploitation; or rather on the convenience of its non-continuity, and, in their case, logically, the demolition of the infrastructure. Finally, what we have to do is make an individualised declaration of extinction of each title, according to its concessional period. We must evaluate the convenience of the continuity of hydroelectric exploitation and the conditions and circumstances of its survival. And in cases where it may proceed, or where appropriate, it also decides on the opportunity to demolish it. That is what my group calls for in the amendment: the individual study of the options for the management of the use of hydroelectric concessions at the end of the concessional deadlines, in accordance with the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2001 of 20 June, so the recast text of the Water Law is approved. This is also what the Greek Administration is doing with the procedures it has already started and what it will do with the jumps that have not yet ended its concession deadline. By complying, of course, with the current regulations – as could not be otherwise – and always watching for the public interest of our Autonomous Community. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u110	Thank you, Mr. Trenor. For the Joint Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u111	Thank you, President. Today I want to talk a little bit of history, and to start reading a song. I won't sing it because the People's Party doesn't deserve the torture of listening to me, so I'm just going to read it. It's a song that is recorded for the first time in 1973, they go there 43 years, and that surely we all know. He says, "Look, gentlemen, that the history/ of a people of our Our Our Our Ourenses/ that has a judge, secretary/ lord of the forensics./ Full of grapes and love/ was such a beautiful valley was such a beautiful/ was in Galicia a fruit/ was Mine Mine Castle./ Until a day/ in a very beautiful morning/ was arrived in Castrelo/ Lord Fenosa's County/ Lord Fenosa./ I admired that count/ not the rules of the wine/ not the rules of the wine/ not the rules of wine/ but the future packaging/ of my Mine Castle./ was in Galicia/ was in Galicia/ was in Galicia/ was there until the day/ a very beautiful morning/ very beautiful/ in a very beautiful morning/ very nice/ very beautiful/ very beautiful/ very beautiful/ very beautiful/ very beautiful/ very beautiful/ very beautiful/ very nice/ very beautiful/ very beautiful/ very beautiful/ very dark/ very dark/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very rich/ very poor/ very strong the commandment./ very rich/ very strong they were made their commandment./ well./ very strong they were made the people./ very sweet/ very strong the people were made the people were the people./ very sweet/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor they were the people/ very poor they were the people/ very poor/ very poor they were the people were the people./ very poor/ very poor they were the people were the people/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor they were the people/ very poor they were the people/ very poor they were the people were the people/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor they were the people were the people were the people/ very poor/ their people/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ their people/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ their people/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ their people/ their people were the people were the people/ very poor/ their people/ their people/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor they were the people were the people were the people/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ their people/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ very poor/ their people were the people were the people/ very poor/ This song focuses on the events that occurred in Castrelo do Mine, the rejection and struggle of the Greek people against the proliferation of coronations in Galicia, which never turned to their own advantage. This dam began to be built in 1964, and in 1966, in full dictatorship, the first mobilisations of the people directly affected, supported by a people who were preparing to oppose absolute power. The projected coronation would strike 350 hectares of unremarkable masonry soil, affecting 33 people. Most of the farms didn't need payroll. The low speed at which the Mine's waters flowed was boiling, with great fertilizer power, on the banks of the river. Nearly 8,000 people were affected by the plague of the feudalism of Fenosa hydroelectric, in a mere expression of Mr. Ramon Otero Pedrayo. The people, back in 1966, already understood that hydroelectric policy was scandalous and unbalanced, because the price of electricity consumption was the same as in any other point in Spain, while Galicia bore the collective sacrifices that constituted these hydraulic constructions. The paradox was so, that a few kilometers from the leap of Castrelo there were many villages without lighting, as was the case in most of the country of Galicia. In the peasant struggle of Castrelo de Mineño, a commission of peasants moved to Madrid to speak to that government minister, Alonso Vega, and he threatened us with sending them a military regiment if they followed up with the mobilizations. Still, the peasantry did not give up. They resorted to the judicial but also the mobilizations; they formed the thirds of assault, which burned the houses of the construction company. The working class and the intellectuals of that time were in solidarity with the peasantry's struggle, but the dictatorship, like the PP, has not met with reason. The finest lands of Ribeiro in Ribadavia were devastated in 1969 by a footless and headless rush. Since Ourense was one of the provinces of the state with the lowest per capita income, 7,893 pesetas in 1966, and a family income of 37,800 pesetas, Castrelo exceeded with 25,500 pesetas per capita income and a family income of 122,400 pesetas. Today the region of Ribeiro suffers from one of the highest unemployment rates in Galicia, 22.43%, compared to 18.2% of the average Galician population. Its population, according to data from the 2014 IGE, amounts to 16,817 people, of whom only 5,120 work, the rest are pensioners or unemployed. So we will support this non-law proposition of the BNG because the cheers never brought benefit to the people, and it is time for this situation to be corrected and the outcome that was made in Galicia serves at least so that the Greek people do not suffer energy poverty. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Mr Sánchez García has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u113	Since Mr Trenor's interventions – with an emphasis on the e – give me a few things to say, I will begin by saying that, since he spoke of extreme right, in the river with more hydroelectric jumps from all over Europe, which is the river Xallas, has Mr. Villar Mir's right of eternity over him. Villar Mir is a former minister of Franco – an extremely right-wing government – and he has a right of eternity over that river Xallas for concessions, essentially another former minister of Franco, Mr. Fraga Iribarne, also a minister of an extreme-right-wing government. So you see who has relations and who doesn't have the extreme right in this country. And it's also true what he told me about the transvase from Meirama to Cecebre to supply the water stream area. True, once again the Galician Union saved much money from Natural Gas, because in the original project Natural Gas had to do all the regeneration of the area, and made it, with the assumptions of the Galician Union, the Galician Union, with an excuse to strengthen the water supply of the Coruña area, when in the Galician Union's own water supply plan there was no problem, there was no forecast of that. That was another favor that did the Galician Gas Natural Gas Board, as many of them do. This proposal we believe should be strategic for the next few years in a government that defends the general interest, because it would be to try to return to the public and to the citizenry what for many years has been a policy of our resources. Infrastructures that were built in favor of the Frankish regime, then made also with the suffering of many people, and whose benefit was returned out of our country. Later on, in democracy, with the liberalisation of the electricity market, these infrastructures, more than amortized, have still been charged a price that experts say has to give rise to more than 500% benefits by the pricing system. It is clear that this policy, a government that seeks the general interest, will have to return it to the public interest. We were talking about Xallas. Not long ago he euphemistically gave an authorization to the Galician Union for reconstitution. No, lie, it wasn't a repotencing, it was new hydroelectric farms trying to disguise them with repotencing. And they promised 700 jobs in the works of that reconnaissance. Do you know how many are working today? They work for 14 people, and if they don't, they talk to some Ferroatlantic employee, who will tell you. Fourteen people, and you said there would be 700 jobs. And we talk only during the works, because these infrastructures are handled with a computer from Madrid, basically. With a computer from Madrid! And what's left here? A little hydropower cannon, I'd miss more! But obviously there's no explanation for those farms that don't need high-tech, or even a very high-ranking staff that has a high cost for public buildings, they're not well managed by the municipalities, either by a fellow-community or by the Galician Union. There is no economic justification – I repeat – to say that it has to be managed by a private company; there is no. That of being able to do... that's all I can do. There's actually a case already. In the area of Aragon there are some cases that have turned to a community of neighbours. What was the consequence? That the price of electricity for the neighbors has been reduced to 3⁄4 parts. It is clear, because what companies exploiting these leaps are over-remunerations at the price of electricity. Then Mr. Trenor spoke of a strict control. Well, we're gonna tell lies, you're gonna lie! What strict control do companies have on the side of the Galician Union? If there was a breach of the Frankist rule that all jumps had to be counted on salmon ladders and there was nothing going on here. What strict control do these companies have when what happened to the leap of Ezarus? Home!, where is that strict control? On the contrary, as I said before, they have a right of eternity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u114	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u115	There is no explanation for a democratic government to oppose today's request by the Nationalist Block of Galicia. None! No argument, but they're defending the private interests of certain people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u116	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Adam Villamarin has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u117	Thank you, President. First I want to thank you for the support of both the Gaga de Left and the Joint Group alternative, and to congratulate Mrs Martínez for perfectly expressing how this initiative feels. I mean, as the cheers and the big electrics are making the expropriation of a public good as is water, that at the time, in addition, they were made with public money, in the Frankish era, essentially. We believe this initiative to be just. Moreover, as a creation of wealth for all Greeks and Greeks. That's why we're going to keep it that way, and I'm going to explain it. First of all, as far as the amendment proposed by the People's Party to comply with existing regulations is concerned, we understand that these regulations are effective, indeed, not even monitoring, controlling and reviewing such concessions as they should, not reverting to public good, and not tending to reduce the price of electricity. Second. Nor are we going to accept the Socialist Party's amendment for the following reason, because it lowers the creation of a public company to manage these jumps, both mini-centres and large hydroelectrics. We understand that the debate is a qualitative and quantitative step towards how the concessions for power stations are currently being understood, both mini and large leaps, so we are going to keep it going. But to facilitate the vote we are going to vote by points. The first point, where we talk about the creation of this public enterprise and reverse the concessions, will be seen sooner or later as these concessions will be reversed. And the second one, at least having information, because we don't even know enough about social clauses: if they have been met, if they are met; it's not even easy to access the years when the concessions end. Although it seems incredible to us, for the preparation of this initiative and its drafting, we had real problems to know what year these concessions end. That's why, and to facilitate voting, we're going to do it by points, but we want to keep the idea that the logical and reasonable thing to have electricity cheaper and to have higher income would be the creation of a public enterprise, reverse concessions and be managed from the German Government. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Mr. Javier Dorado Soto and three other Members, on the demand for Galician Union to the Vigo Council for its accession to the Empty Housing Programme of Galician Union
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u119	Three amendments were introduced to this non-law proposal; one from the Joint Group, one from the AGE Group and one from the Nationalist Block Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u120	To formulate the non-law proposition, Mr. Dorado Soto has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u121	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The Galego Institute of Living and Soil and Fegamp signed, on May 3, 2016, a collaborative agreement for the development of the Empty Housing Program within the RehaVita Plan; the Greek Rehabilitation Plan, rent and better access to housing in 2015-2020. This initiative specifically speaks of the empty housing plan; a plan that seeks which homes are now empty, and which are owned by the public or private, are intended for disadvantaged families. Gathering a bunch of unemployed housing to make a social housing bag that benefits those people with less resources. The dwellings, within this plan, will have secured by the Board, and at no cost to the owners, a series of fundamental coverages that provide legal guarantee and legal security throughout the lease. A multi-risk home insurance, where all the damage suffered by the housing is covered during the vigil of the lease. A guarantee insurance for the collection of rents, monthly payments, unpaid. Legal assistance and legal defence of tenants, etc. All these issues are assurances that they shield the owner and that they avoid problems like what Antonio, a neighbor of Torrecedeira, had in the city of Vigo precisely, who was able to forgive a number of months that his tenants owed him and, when he got home, was devastated. This would be avoided – as I said before – with the empty housing plan that is being carried out in the Union of Galicia. Therefore, avoid the insecurity of people who may have a good will to rent their flat that is empty, but who come with the insecurity of knowing what might happen in case something was wrong. I think it's important. They can therefore accept this agreement – which, as I previously reflected, is an agreement between the Union and the Fegamp – all Galician municipalities that sign the accession agreement to the relevant convention. The municipalities will propose the incorporation of houses of their property or of third parties, where they are free from burdens and engravings, which conform to the existing legislation, which are unemployed and which are likely to be used. The dwellings shall be provided to applicants who meet the requirements laid down in the agreement, to whom I shall then refer. And the municipalities will also propose a process of selection of tenants, as well as their subsequent adjudication. For applicants, the requirements are as follows. They must be in a situation that makes it difficult to access a rental home in their own municipality. They must have minimum incomes or aids that enable them to meet the economic obligations of the lease; they cannot be related to the tenants, nor can they have any kind of linkage in the event that the floor is the title of a legal person; that is, it cannot be related to that legal person nor can it relate to any of their relatives or persons with which they are related. In this case, there are preferential collectives when they are beneficiaries of such housing: families affected by mortgage enforcement procedures, without the need for this procedure to have a judicial resolution; families affected by a judicial process of non-payment of rent income; families with minor children, large and single-parent families with children; families in which there are women victims of gender violence who have an order of protection or protective measure; families over 5 years of age or dependent; families benefiting from IGVS rent aid who, despite the period of perception, remain unprotected or special vulnerability and families with difficulties in taking the cost of renting a housing and who are deprived of their living under unpredictable or surviving circumstances, such as fire, flood or any other unforeseeable issue. These rentals would have a maximum income, which is divided into three zones. A special price zone, which would be five cities: Vigo, Santiago, La Coruña, Ourense and Pontevedra, which would be 350 euros. A second area, which covers practically the rest of the cities, as well as the small municipalities of Galicia, which would be up to 300 euros per rent. And a third area, which is the rest of Galician municipalities, which would be a maximum of 250 euros. With regard to this programme, the situation today is that there are already different municipalities that have signed their agreement. Specifically, the first one was the city of Ourense, last July 6th. The second was the city of Roundla last July 8th. And there are 34 other municipalities pending to join, who have formally applied for membership and will be formalized in the coming days. In addition, 19 additional municipalities requested information to adhere to the short-term future. In total, 4 of these municipalities are from the Metropolitan Area of Vigo: Pazos de Borbén, Gondomar, Roundola and Ponteareas. I think it is important to focus on the importance of this programme. It's for a period of four years, 2016-2019. It aims to cover a total of 600 dwellings and has 690,000 euros of budget. It's a broad program, a program where it's remarkable to work and it can give important benefits to those people who today don't have easy access to a home. In addition, it must be remembered that this program of empty housing is perfectly compatible with the social rent bonus, which – as is known – is EUR 200 per month – before it was 150, increased during the last year – for another year, extendable, that charge those families who lose their housing and who cannot afford the rent, victims of gender violence and beneficiaries of the Plan Aluga which ends the maximum of five years of assistance. So it's a plan with a high social content. So the Galician Union has been addressed to the Vigo Town Hall for some time now to join this plan. This plan went to the Vigo Council, specifically to the plenary session of the Vigo Council, at the initiative of the People's Municipal Group, and had the rejection, with the vote against, of the Socialist Party and the abstention of the Vigo Sea. So we are very concerned about this decision. It should be noted that Vigo is the city of Galicia with a greater number of evictions and more families who need a home. Exactly, in the first quarter there were a total of 129 executions; 129 in the first quarter. Meanwhile, the mayor of Vigo continues to say that there are no evictions in Vigo. All the dwellings that the Galician Union has in the city of Vigo are all occupied; absolutely all. The collective The Ningens, which many of you will know because it was on different occasions to ask the Council to adhere to this plan, has already specifically informed the Council of particular cases of people who needed a home; and even went to the People's Valley, who in the report of June 3rd specifically recommended the Vigo Council to adhere to this empty housing plan because it was considerably beneficial to the city of Vigo. Vigo has empty floors, empty floors that are not being given any kind of use, and we ask them to, if they are unable to manage and they are unable to make them available to the people who need them, please let them do it to Galician Union, because there is already a program for that. We ask them nothing more than that, nothing more than that. Vigo is the only city in Spain, along with the city of Murcia, that lacks a municipal housing agency; the only one! And all this, gentlemen, contrasts with what the Galician Union is doing, which is an active housing policy that can be completed with a series of measures that I shall now begin to report. In any case, before I finish this point I would like to say clearly that people like Ricardo, like Isabel, like Merche, who had to go to a full of Vigo Town Hall to report their experience to see if the Vigo Town Hall paid attention to them, and he didn't listen to them, had to be the Junta of Galicia to offer them a house. But of course, it couldn't be the three in the city of Vigo because the Board has no empty dwellings at its disposal; some of them had to go to the Moat, for example. And in the meantime, almost 20 houses in Vigo's city saving dust, waiting for a tenant, but the Vigo Town Hall decides to have them closed. I'm going to say, because I think it's important that you know what housing the Vigo Town Hall has at your disposal and that they're empty. He has 15 houses on the streets of the Argentine Republic, he wants to sell them, and the Galician Union has already asked him, please, to make them available to the people who need it. He's got so many others on Carracido Street that we've been asking the Town Hall to tell us how many and what they are. And it has 3, specifically, on the road to Camposancos, in the neighborhood known as Routes, which were handed over – certainly, look where – in 2012 by the IGVS to the Vigo Town Hall, and it turns out that the Vigo Town Hall has been holding these homes for four years and has done absolutely nothing. The houses remain empty, they remain unused, and beyond that, they don't pay the community, they don't pay the light and they don't pay the water. It's a real shame what the Vigo Town Hall is doing about housing. For all this – if I'm done with time – we sincerely ask that the Vigo Town Hall, which is the most important city in Galicia and which has an imperative need to solve the housing problem of many people, should adhere to this plan so that a solution can be given to all these families.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u122	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u123	Not only is it a necessity of the Vigo Town Hall, but it is also of cities like La Coruña. By the way, there's a motion in the Plenary of the Town Hall that was approved, but it hasn't been moved to Galician Union. But this initiative specifically talks about Vigo because in Vigo it is where most is needed, in Vigo it is where less attention is being placed on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u124	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. The Joint Group has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u125	Press of 12 February 2016. He said, "High-level leaders of the Galego Institute of Housing and Solo explained to the Anti-Draft Platform and to the people who had the limited social housing reserve they had had in their last cases. The Galego Institute of Housing and Solo figures in more than 1,500 demands for social housing in the city of Vigo." In these conditions, it has moved them that the only option is to get the Town Hall involved in this problem and to spread the existence of the lease bond and other joint programs to prevent evictions. What you are now asking us to approve in this plenary of the rejection of social institutions. The people and the PAD have transferred to the Board that the rental bonus is not a useful tool in supposed families with no incomes lost due to lack of payment of the rent, because a monthly allowance of 150 euros – not to give to pay a housing – does not prevent displaced families from renting a housing when they lack income – i.e. payroll – and money to deal with the first payments and bail. It is unworthy for the People's Party to take advantage of this House to amplify its political dispute with the mayor of Vigo, while campaigning for a city that largely rejects its policies. It's unworthy of him now to blame the lack of social housing for others, when he was already aware of the lack of social housing throughout the country in February and did nothing. Now the People's Party, at the end of the legislation, is concerned about the homeless, about the very people who were expelled from their homes with the necessary collaboration of the state security forces, and the consequent punishment of the official staff who refused to cooperate in the defiance. But their commitment to the rights of the defeated people is no longer beyond the speech in this House, statements to the press, Christian charity measures and solidarity photos. So last Thursday, July 7, I came to Portonovo to solidarity with Leticia and offer my collaboration in my hand. Of course, the first one was to sign the writing of solidarity above the table. Leticia is a single mother with two underage and a monthly income of 590 euros. He lost his usual housing due to an illegal personal loan, as he was going to pay 20 percent of the housing that didn't cover the mortgage loan. From a total loan of 108,000 euros, Leticia owes 17,000, and yet lost its housing. After losing the housing, he managed to remain on board by means of the Board for a maximum of 3 years, paying a social rent, but Abanca continues to claim the payment of the personal loan, disengaging him from his mortgage character. Of course, we are facing a case of abuse by the bank and an administration that allows abuse without acting. Well, on Thursday, when we were taking a good mouse several people from Cerna and an opposer talking to Leticia, Mr. Telmo Martín, Mrs. Ethel Vázquez and others arrived. They asked to take a picture. We said goodbye so they could talk to Leticia free of our presence. In a short time, we went back to Leticia, the summary that made us was the following: "They came, took the picture and left." They didn't ask for anything, they didn't offer anything, they didn't commit to anything. They didn't even sign the letter of solidarity. I mean, Leticia was part of the People's Party's pre-election campaign. And today this PNL is also part of the pre-election campaign of the People's Party Vigo has the highest demand because it's the biggest city, but it doesn't matter the city, it doesn't matter who's government, the right to a decent housing is a goal that is our responsibility to all of us, and much more to public office. No political organization, and less governs the country, can claim that access to housing is a local problem that has nothing to do with the housing policies of the Autonomous Community. So they don't use such a sensitive and dramatic theme to address their differences with the mayor of Vigo. Follow the recommendations of the report on homeless people from the People's Valedor that I pick up in the amendment, so I hope you will vote in favour, because they are all proposals from the People's Valedor. That's why the left fights austerity policies, is aware of the need for change, of putting an end to a cycle that has undermined the social perception of politics and institutions based on corruption, of buying interest from large economic groups...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u127	...–Finished, Madam President–. Today, in my most likely last intervention in this House, I call on the generosity of everyone, the generosity of organizations to prevent Galicia from suffering from another four years of precarious work, destruction of traditional productive sectors and privatization. I hope and hope for a change of government that will allow justice to be done, guarantee the right to housing, set up an investigation commission for the English accident, an investigation commission for savings banks and create a truly redistributive tax system of wealth. You already have the amendment in writing. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gaga Alternative, Mrs Solla has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u129	Thank you, President. First of all, we regret the use of Parliament's plenary in Galicia for the game of you and you and to make the opposition that the People's Party makes perfectly in the Vigo Council. You don't have to do it here. We're talking about a serious topic, and, of course, this group does not want to repeat yesterday's spree in the debate between PSOE and PP on the Vigo Metropolitan Area. AGE is against – of course – that the Vigo Town Hall sells the public housing that it now has at its disposal. In fact, the fellow members of the Marea de Vigo municipal group have also pronounced themselves against this term and have moved proposals for the creation of a municipal public housing park. There's no justification for this being put into practice. Obviously, we agree. The problem is that neither can the People's Party come here as an example of anything, because in seven years nothing has been done in dealing with the problem of evictions. We've moved here on multiple occasions, which, of 18,000 evictions in Galicia, was re-aligned 45 by the Galician Union. In the state as a whole, from the beginning of the crisis there have been 624,000 mortgage executions and 397,000 evictions in rental homes, and in the meantime 3.5 million empty housing, an increase of 22% of the cost of housing price and 31% rise in the cost of supplies, water and energy. These are the consequences of labour reforms, deregulation of the housing market and energy market and also of the adoption of Article 135 of the Constitution which the majority parties supported. It was only the struggle of the PAD, of STOP defiances, other collectives also at the local level, such as what you have appointed here, to raise awareness of this real problem, of non-compliance in addition to the Spanish Constitution, and to take certain measures. If it wasn't for them and them, obviously we wouldn't get to this point. In Galicia, as I said, there were virtually no policies in this sense. To this day, we have no real data from the alleged Reconduit Plan. You could use it to give some data on that plan; one more failure of the Galician Union. They promised several hundred homes, 500, to avoid the evictions. Where are they? There were 45 18,000 royals. I'd like to know where they are. This group called for regulation of the housing market and the People's Party voted against. This group has proposed the creation of an autonomous public housing park, and the People's Party has voted against it. And now that the legislation is finished, they intend to move us to do something about this problem and they talk about the expansion of the Aluga Plan, of the rental aid, and they say, in addition, that there will be 6,000 people. You're looking forward to it! Moreover, even if it did, they would reach less than 1% of the people who are in poverty or at risk of social exclusion in Galicia. Now that the legislation is over and nothing will happen to them, they promise again and ask for the city council's support. We, of course, are in favour of the municipalities adding to whatever measure they can solve or try to solve this problem. But only with that will you solve absolutely nothing, it's not enough with this. The Galician Union cannot simply demand the municipalities and not provide them. So we understand that some of these measures need to be considered and proposed an amendment to add that would serve not only to demand the municipalities to be put to work, but also to require the Galician Council to do so: that this public housing park be set in motion at an autonomous level, that the rental market be regulated for social interest – as we have already requested in committee – and that the Government undertakes in fact to take preventive, social and economic measures, that prevent the judicial proceedings; that this order of rejection is not reached because measures are being taken to ensure that families do not have to reach that point. And, obviously, this is incompatible with the policies that have led us to poverty rates that now make more than 600,000 Greeks and Greeks live at risk of social exclusion. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u131	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Neighbors and neighbors present in the gallery. Mr. Dorado, in the way of a preamble, and speaking of a matter as serious as that of guaranteeing the right to housing worthy for all the Greeks and Greeks, let me tell you three points. First of all, Galicia has exclusive competence in the area of housing. It is therefore up to this legislative Parliament to guarantee that fundamental right, and, in any case, to the Infrastructure and Housing Council to carry out housing policy and solo in order to guarantee the fundamental right to a decent housing, with the corresponding budgets. Second point. We all know that there are more than 10,000 families in our country who have lost the right to housing – in Galicia – during Mr. Feijóo's government, and there are many more families who will lose that right every day because they don't have enough money to deal with or their mortgage – from housing – or from renting. Obviously, the city of Vigo presents the largest number of cases of persons in need of help in order to access a housing worthy of rent. This municipality is the largest population in Galicia, it surrounds the 300,000 inhabitants. In the register of housing applicants there are about 5,800 demands, of which about 3,000 correspond to rent. And the third point. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG, Mr. Dorado, has called for an active commitment from this Parliament to ensure the right of the Galicians and the Greeks to a dignified housing and to end the crackdown on the refugees. Right contemplated in the legislation, but not done in Galicia because Mr. Feijóo's policy knew a lot about that time to cut down on investments; more than 725 million cut into housing policies, in the Feijóo Government, during his term of office. Unfortunately, Mr. Dorado, the Greek Government has not been able to guarantee the right to housing or to shorten social emergencies or to approve a Greek housing law that could solve these problems and promote a social park of sufficient housing for rent and public, in Vigo and throughout Galicia, because Mr. Feijóo's Government this year is dedicated to access to housing 14.8 million euros, when in 2009 108 million euros were allocated. The saying: there was money and there was money, 9,000 million to clean the bank, but there were only cuts of 725 million in housing policies for those families who are thrown away by that bank itself that was healed. After the preamble, for the BNG Parliamentary Group it is certainly regrettable, firstly, that the Galician People's Parliamentary Group comes to this German Parliament to pursue a policy of municipal opposition to the Vigo Council. Mr. Dorado, in respect of all the families, the families of Vigo and the families of Galicia, who have serious difficulties in accessing a rented house, should not continue with you and your group on that path, on the way to using the Greek Parliament to make noise, sell smoke and not solve the serious problems of access to the housing of many families of Vigo. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG has already expressed its support in this Parliament for mobilising the empty housing of all kinds – those of Sareb, the municipalities, the private ones, the financial institutions – to promote access to housing to especially disadvantaged groups. The Parliamentary Group of the BNG also understands that these dwellings of which it has told us today of the Vigo Council which it has in the Argentine Republic and those that are empty, but those that are in this situation that being private can adhere to the empty housing program, but we all know, lords, that these houses, these empty apartments, will not solve the housing problem of the Vigo Council. BNG, while supporting administrative collaboration, also in the empty housing program, is aware that it must be the policies of the Housing Council that can and must guarantee the right to a decent housing. For that reason – and ending – we present an amendment, to preach with example in collaboration and to demand the commitment of the Union to include the homes of self-proprietary property necessary to ensure the renting of Vigo people and families who are part of these especially disadvantaged social groups. I hope that you will accept this amendment of collaboration between the Galician Council and the Vigo Council, to try to address the serious needs of renting housing for especially vulnerable families. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u132	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Mr Sánchez Bugallo has the floor for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u133	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, gentlemen. I also take this opportunity – which will surely be my last intervention in this House – to say goodbye to everyone and to thank everyone for the collaboration we have maintained over this time. But, entering into the matter which today is ours and which motivates this intervention, the first thing I mean is that the proposal put forward by the People's Party and put to the vote today is the literal transcription of a motion submitted by the People's Party and signed by Ms. Elena Muñoz on April 20th of the currents in the Vigo Council, a motion that has already been debated and rejected by the Vigo Municipal Corporation. So from the Socialist Group's point of view, we're going to vote that we don't, and I'm going to explain the two main reasons why we're going to do it. The first one, because we find it absolutely surprising and intolerable that since this House it is attempting to replace the Municipal Corporation of Vigo in its political control function of the Vigo government. Ladies and gentlemen, our Constitution and our legislation are clear in this respect: it is up to Vigo citizens to elect their corporation, to designate their government, and, whenever they act within the law, to the corporation itself, their political control. This House has other assigned tasks, such as, for example, approving housing legislation, promoting housing policy, which is the exclusive competence of the Autonomous Community of Galicia. It is absolutely intolerable for the People's Party, using its absolute majority in this House, to try to supplant the will of the vigues, and it is absolutely surprising that it does so when, on other occasions, for example, in the scandalous situations of the House of Ourense, it has welcomed itself about the autonomy of the local institutions so as not to face those problems in this House. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate – Article 27.3 of the Statute of Self-Government, Law of Housing of Galicia – that exclusive competence in the area of housing in the Autonomous Community of Galicia corresponds to the Council of Galicia. How does the Galician Union respond to that responsibility? Mr. Pombo said it, and I give the right data. In terms of access to housing, 108 million euros was what the 2009 budgets had; when Mr. Feijóo arrived, 14,800,000 is what there is for this year 2016; 85% decrease. That is, when there is a greater need, when 2,400 families every year, 200 families every month, since the 88 months of ruling the People's Party, that is, 18,000 families lose their homes, the response of the Board was to reallocate 45. It's ridiculous, that would be embarrassing to anyone. And he pulls out programs that, above them, have a scandalous level of budget non-execution. I don't want to talk to you again, because I've repeated it here many times, about the housing access program: in 2013, 1.3% of the budget spent, 1.3%, 98% without running and on average didn't get to 50%. Mr. Pombo spoke of what came down from the budget allocation. Well, look, after that fall, nearly 400 million euros were out of use. It's a shame that it seems a lie that the People's Party dares to demand anyone on this issue. From there we have to talk about the Vigo Council, which has no specific competence in that matter. However, ladies and gentlemen, 1,358 Vigo families – 1,358 – receive their monthly help for housing rent paid by the Town Hall, 142 receive their monthly help to pay for their mortgage, 1,079 receive their monthly help to pay for gas and electricity and 1,100 for food, assuming the Vigo Council a responsibility corresponding to the Galician Union. As far as housing may be concerned, it may be able to spend more, but it devotes 2,100,000 euros, 1% of its budget. They contrast with the 14,800,000 of the board, which is 0.1% of its budget. I mean, what's in the competition...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u134	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u135	...dedicates ten times less than what assumes that function. And lastly – which I don't have any time left – talking about the dwellings of the Argentine Republic, you know that these dwellings are destined for real estate especially in cases of family abuse, they are dedicated to social functions, and they are doing demagogy. Finally, Mr. Dorado, 5,000 people on waiting lists in Vigo waiting for shelter protected. How many began Galician Union these seven years? You want me to tell him? Zero potato. Seven years equal to zero.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u136	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Dorado, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u137	Thank you very much, President. Well, first of all, acknowledge the work of the amendments, thank you, because it was a laborious job. We're going to accept as an amendment to add the amendment to the Galician Nationalist Block and reject that from the rest of the groups. I'd like to reply briefly to each of the groups, in particular starting with the Joint Group, which referred to an information from the month of February. I have to inform you that since February different things have changed in housing policy, there are two mainly those you haven't mentioned. First of all, the rent bonus; the social bonus went from 150 euros to 200; and secondly, this empty housing plan was initiated, to which we are asking to include the Vigo Town Hall and which seems to you does not make the least interest. Secondly, Mrs. Solla, representative of AGE, you say that the Galician Union has done nothing. Look, I'd recommend, I'm going to let you know the "A home in your hands" programme twelve concrete measures that seem to be of no interest to your parliamentary spokesperson, who talks about the donation paid, of realisation of affected, of judicial applause... Oh, you've got it, perfect. [[Murmurs.]] So why do you say you haven't done anything if you've got it there? Study it a little bit more, because you have the measures there, you just have to read them. Perfect. Then Mr. Pombo, of the Galego Nationalist Block, referred to the housing competition that this Parliament actually has, and that is why a housing law was passed here a few months ago. So we're here discussing housing because the competence of this Parliament, the Council of Galicia, is about housing, and therefore we're concerned about the problems Galicia has at home, and Vigo's, which Vigo is also Galicia, and we have to take them into consideration here too. With regard to the socialist lord, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo, I would like to say, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo, that you are absolutely contradicted. On the one hand, you refer to local autonomy to say that we are no one to debate here and, on the other hand, tell the Galician Union that it has exclusive competence at home. We're talking here, Mr. Bugallo, about housing, and Vigo is also housing, and what we're saying here is clearly the following: that the Vigo Town Hall is giving no solution to those people who are requiring a housing, who have empty homes that are filling with dust, and that the only housing solution that the Vigo Town Hall has given in recent years is to the Dinoseto, no one but the Dinoseto. We not only did the Navy PAU – yes, we must recognize it – the Navy PAU, 3,000 homes, we have just launched the expansion, another 1,900 homes. [[Murmurs.]] He referred earlier, Mr Bugallo, to the Routes, to the road to Camposancos...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u138	Mr. Galician, be quiet, please. Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u139	The housing that has made the Galician Town Hall of Vigo available on the Routes is that they are empty, they are not used for anything, while people are looking for... [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Hey, please, Mr. Gallego! Look, Mr. Gallego, please respect me. Mr. Gallego...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u140	Mr. Gallego, you have a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u141	Mr. Gallego, this is not the Vigo Town Hall, here you must respect those who speak, Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u142	Mr. Gallego, Mr. Gallego, listen: you have a call to order, you are not in the use of the word, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u143	Thank you. He said he saw if housing was made that he made it available to the Town Hall that the Town Hall has absolutely empty. That's why, exclusively for that reason, we ask that, please, the Vigo Town Hall let the Galician Union exercise its competence also in Vigo Town Hall. It is only necessary to enter the Vigo Town Hall website to realize that the housing does not occupy a single space throughout the website, that there is not a single housing policy for the Vigo Town Hall, and that it does not exercise it, please let it exercise others. I, for one, have nothing more. And I would like to finish this intervention – which is going to be my last intervention in this plenary – to remember a figure that is Miguel Ángel Blanco, from which 19 years of his death are celebrated today. Thanks to him, many of us are here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u144	Thank you, Mr. Dorado. Non-law motion by the Group of the Socialists of Galicia on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in connection with article 324 of the Law on Criminal Judgment. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeu and 17 other Members, on the demand to be made by the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to article 324 of the Law on Criminal Judgment
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u145	No amendments have been tabled to this non-law proposal. Mrs. Vilán Lorenzo has the floor to make the same speech.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u146	Thank you, Vice President. Good morning, again, all of you. "They've generated a problem that we didn't have and explained it to them, but it doesn't get into their heads." This is a phrase that gave a prosecutor in Pontevedra, a prosecutor who specializes in corruption issues, a prosecutor who is scandalized by the amendment made by the People's Party of the Criminal Settlement Act. Article 324, after the reform, says that the instruction, i.e. investigation into the criminal proceedings, will last a maximum of six months from the beginning, and if the instructor, i.e. the judge, declares the complex instruction, can increase to a maximum of eighteen months, and even the judge himself could extend it for a period equal to or for a period less than these eighteen months. This article was included in a reform that in October 2015 made the Government now in function of Mariano Rajoy and reducing these deadlines for instruction, for research, so it is impossible to terminate within them. It started to apply on June 6, that is, just a month ago, and what all the organizations say, all the sectors, all the workers who have to do with justice is that this law, first, has forgotten and has not remedied the lack of material and personal resources and the economic resources that the judges need. And precisely because of its application and its entry into force, what will result in, in practice, the amnesty of political-enterprise corruption plots and impunity for its perpetrators, the impossibility of being able to complete research in those periods. True, we all agree that criminal investigation cannot cause people – whether or not they are involved in politics – to suffer this accusation for many years. That sword of righteousness above the head is unfair to any citizen, wherever he is, and this has been happening for quite some time. But between the six years that can last some cause of half or more waiting for an investigation to be resolved up to the six months of what this reform talks about, there's a chasm. The consequences of the implementation of this reform are that it will be applied backwards – retroactively, we say what we have to do with the right – to about 1 million summaries that were open before the adoption of the rule. The Prosecutor's Office – which is not a party body and is not a body that has a special link with the Socialist Party – says that it prevents claiming new evidence outside the established deadlines, and the three main tax associations – i.e., of any kind of ideological trend – say that it is impossible to review with guarantees all these open judicial causes, and that will imply, according to the Progressive Tax Union – one of these associations – that the raison d'élegislator of a terminal government will not collect a thorough reform of the criminal proceedings, which entitles the Prosecutor's Office to the head of criminal investigation. Setting a time limit for completing judicial investigations – from the voices of this tax association – will have an adverse effect to gain clarity of facts, and to gain clarity of who was responsible for them, and, above all – which is more dangerous – will cause the immunity of a large part of these officials, as a result of such a short period of time for education, six, eighteen months or the possibility of enlargement, because the eighteen months and later enlargement will depend on what a judge says, not on whether he asks only the prosecutor. Another consequence was that this reform was rejected by all dean judges, all associations of judges and prosecutors, the judicial secretaries, the General Council of Law, that is, all sectors related to justice. Even prosecutors claim that the only solution would be to cause the suspension of this article, mainly because in Galicia any prosecutor handles, more or less, between a thousand and two thousand middle affairs, and they can't get the judges to tell them what their causes are, which are the ones they have to carry, because they're pending, and they can't know either. And so said the drug prosecutor in the province of Pontevedra as well. What's also happening, as a result, is that it causes, as I said before, an amnesty for all sorts of plots of political corruption and corporate corruption that undermine the courts. Given the obvious presence of these plots in Greek cities and municipalities, the Union should feel challenged – we understand from the Socialist Parliamentary Group – and not favour impunity, which will further damage the confidence of citizens in public institutions, and in particular in the institution of the Administration of Justice. And that's why we understand that the suspension of this article is not enough. Day by day, since June 6, June 7, the 8th, the 9th, the 10th, this article is being applied and the problems are increasing, and what we ask is that the Galician Parliament – which obviously has no competence with regard to the Criminal Correction Act – urges the Government of the State to which this article 324 is being repealed, which has been reformed by that gentleman who is going to pass as the Minister of Justice to history as one of the worst – or the worst – of our country's history. Because of our band, nothing else, and we expect them to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u148	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The Joint Group will support this non-legislative proposal of the Socialist Group, and it is urgent to demand the repeal of this article of Law 41/2015, amending the Law on Criminal Judgment, to speed up criminal justice and the strengthening of procedural guarantees. This law, this particular article, doesn't it, has a trick, which is to limit the maximum period of criminal investigation and leave the possibility of its extension in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office. And it's very worrying that only the Prosecutor's Office, with the hierarchical unit known to the Attorney General of the State, in turn appointed by the Government, can urge that the complex instruction be declared and the extension accordingly of the instruction deadlines. And it seems that, in this case, whoever made the law has set the trap, and they don't indicate the fact of increasing human and material means to achieve these demanding deadlines. And if there were any doubts, the single additional provision points out that the measures included in this standard cannot increase staffing, remuneration, or other staff costs. Many of the complex causes are precisely plots of political corruption, starting mainly by those affecting the Government of the People's Party that is currently in function in Madrid. And not only is there a lack of means, but there are also other management problems, which are common to the entire Administration of Justice. There are also problems that are specific to criminal proceedings. If you say that many of the processes are guaranteed, because they allow countless successive resources, and therefore they are tremendously slow. Many causes are complex, and depending on who the person is charged, which may have more or less capacity to pay legions from lawyers, they also have a lot to do with this slowness. And yes, there are many cases, above all state level, as can be those we already know, such as the Gürtel plot, the Punica plot, the ERE case, the Us case, the Madrid Arena case, and it's good to try to avoid an excessive delay in the criminal process, but by doing so only by establishing a time limit in which you have to conclude the instruction to either continue the process or either fattening, without any additional look, the only one that leads is impunity, and for this reason most legal operators are against this reform. In the conclusions of the XXV National Meeting of Judges Deans of Spain, a body representing the judges, elected by the judges themselves in a democratic manner, the conclusion is that it will have a very negative effect on the setting of deadlines in education, a measure of obvious voluntary nature that nothing solves or contributes, when its cause is rooted, precisely, in the continuing shortage of personnel and means, as well as in antiquated laws that we apply to the criminal process, that government after government no one dares to modernize. And what they need is precisely human and material means to intensify international judicial cooperation. It is unacceptable that the extension of the deadlines will appear monopolized by the tax person. It is important to point out that, while administrative proceedings of a sanctioning nature provide for the possibility of suspending the calculation of time limits under certain circumstances, for example when reporting is requested, it does not occur in criminal proceedings, which are dependent on many occasions on the activity of bodies which may even be located outside the territory of the Spanish State. And this – as the spokesman for the Socialist Group well said – is the most like an amnesty covered up for possible crimes of political corruption, for example, in most cases. And it seems that now the pardon for corruption crimes is becoming complicated. So they find this way to perpetuate the interesting tradition that exists in this state, and also in Galicia, which allows people of much power or well related to be more fortunate than the average when faced with a criminal trial, especially when we talk about prescription. By this law, the Ministry of Justice has failed to provide judges, prosecutors, the material and personal means that require proper compliance with legal provisions. The provisionality of the current Government favours the stagnation of any measure. And for further complications, also new systems that came into force this year, as was the electronic communications of the Administration of Justice, which all it does is collapse due to lack of planning and investment to impact the implementation of a system of such dimensions, and what it did, apart from the evas also found in the program itself, was slowing down and making the system much worse. Nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Alternative Left Galician Parliamentary Group. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u150	Good morning to all and to all. Alternative Galga de Left will support this proposal for a derogation from Article 324 of the Reform of the Law on Criminal Judgment, because we have also recently been insisting on the Committee on Justice, through various questions, about the consequences of precisely the provision, where six months were given only to review the more than thirty-five thousand pending cases in Galicia, to know which might be likely to have those eighteen months as a complex cause and which is not. We have also had occasion to see that the Council of Galicia does not act as an interlocutor with justice, that even if we have only come closer to information through the press clippings, and, therefore, of course, we have to be thoroughly concerned about what can happen with this entire judicial process. It is clear that between undue delay, which was the reason he said to motivate this occurrence of the limits to Article 324, and the decision of the legislator – on the right, it must be said – because it must mediate the reason for the balance. It is clear that justice cannot act hastily and must act without pause, that is, without haste and without pause, because it is clear that this situation – said the spokesperson of the PSdEG, who brought this initiative – can bring forth clear samples of impunity. The law was made without increasing human and material resources, as is also explicitly stated in the single additional provision. It is particularly concerned in times of political corruption that we know it strikes political parties such as the People's Party, namely the Prosecutor's Office, which is generally dependent on the Attorney-General's Office, the only one who can urge that complex instruction be declared and the extension of the various periods of instruction accordingly. There are jurists who claim that article 324, without the necessary human and material resources, can involve – as it has been said – an amnesty covered up for possible crimes of political corruption, for the material impossibility of terminating instructions with due guarantees to open an oral trial. Let us repeat: this situation seems dangerous to us. The prosecutors are alerting, and not only the progressive prosecutors. Álvaro García Ortiz, from UPF, or the Tax Association, which is more conservative, all of them, contributed to say, with regard to those six months of deadline to review all pending cases, that it was impossible to cover the deadlines, that the only one that would favor was the non-compliance of the law, and even the Fiscal Council, in a letter of 19 May 2016, assumed that, in fact, all pending cases could not be reviewed. And, in fact, in the reply given to us by the representative of the board of Galicia, because he did not really know what the state of the situation was, only through the press clippings, and we are told that there are worrying facts, and we would like to know how many of the cases pending on 6 December 2015 could not be reviewed by the prosecutors on 6 June 2016, to know what typology belongs to each of the files, which percentage represents each type about the total number of those who could not be reviewed by the prosecutors and how many causes were instructed to be declared complex. These are aspects of them that still don't know a reliable or good answer from the Galician Council, and they don't want to give, because it says there's no ability or competition, no interest, no power of interaction. So we don't really know what those responsible for this are in Galicia, in the council, because, whenever they are asked, the answer is an escape from responsibility. So we advocate why, for the sake of justice and for the sake of the fact that there is no impunity in complex causes and that there are no cases of covert amnesty, because this article 324 of the Criminal Judgment Act is being repealed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u152	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. According to the preamble in the explanatory statement of the law which amended the Law of Criminal Judgment in its Article 324, one of the objectives of this amendment is to conclude that an excessive slowness has been found, an excessive delay in the resolution of criminal offences, which therefore results in a malfunction of the Administration of Justice. Even if it seems like a topic, it has been repeated on many occasions that a slow justice is not fair. It is more, in terms of corruption and many other matters, but also corruption, serious crimes, complex crimes, which introduces this delay in the functioning of the Administration of Justice and, therefore, the delay in the possible imposition of a criminal sanction against such acts, which derives from a perception of immunity not only from society in respect of these crimes, but also from the persons charged with those crimes themselves. However, the Government of the State has opted for a solution that, far from shortening the problems that motivate that blockade which causes inescapable delays in instructing complex criminal processes, which causes and, as it has already been said, what can provoke, as has already been said in previous interventions, is to increase precisely that impunity, because there are indeed many criminal matters with this new regulation that could be liable to a conviction that will be left to that penalty by the Administration of Justice. There is another consideration with regard to this legal amendment, and it is that in the same additional provision in which Article 324 of the Criminal Judgment Act is amended, it is not that the provision of resources for the Administration of Justice is not established, but that it is explicitly and prescriptively established, that this legal amendment cannot behave, it is not that it is not going to behave, but that it cannot entail the increase of material or personal means, the service of prosecutors or the service of the Administration of Justice. And of course, indeed, we're on the roll this one that you can't spend more money; then, it's already set to heal yourself in health that the law won't entail an increase in expenditure. And look, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, throughout the previous legislation, the People's Party, particularly in the Ministry of Justice, even though in other ministries too, has achieved unanimity in relation to acts of the Ministry unpublished throughout the history of Spanish democracy. They were able to agree against decisions of the Ministry of Justice all judicial operators, citizens, prosecutors, judges, magistrates, all professional associations of magistrates and judges, all professional associations of prosecutors, because they are authentic aberrations from the legal point of view. Of course, as in almost nothing, there are also no magic recipes, but, of course, if there has been a very serious and very rigorous assessment by members of the Administration of Justice itself and the Prosecutor's Office that one of the elements that could contribute to solving the problem of macro-causes that have been taught for years and years in the education courts would, of course, establish some kind of measure related to the personal means, with the existence of judicial experts in matters in which today there are no such as, for example, financial offences, money laundering, etc., etc., which are elements that are present in most macro-causes that can be brought to the head of any one of us, and even the establishment of special judges to judge what are called causes arising from crime or complex crimes, which are precisely all these based in major deluitive backgrounds. And instead, the Government of the State that he chooses is to cast ground on it. The important thing is to remove the causes from us. The irrelevant appears that for the Government of the State it was whether these causes, if as a result of these causes were to be cleared up the real responsibilities that could derive from them and from which it had begun. Therefore, the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group agrees that it is necessary to urge the State to derogate this article, because we believe that it is – perhaps we could say that mortally – the criminal law in the Spanish State and to bring the Administration of Justice into question, and to put, not as administration, but as justice in itself, inquiring that those responsible for committing crimes that are fundamentally serious against the whole of society have the criminal sanction that is theirs. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. People's Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u154	Well, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies. I, first of all, want to question and certainly show my inconsistencies with this lack of rigour with which this matter is being dealt, not so much from the point of view of political criticism – which I can understand – but yes from the procedural point of view, that in other cases I can also apologize, less in the case of Mrs Vilán. Here we have just talked about issues such as amnesty, pardon, questioning, questioning the professionalism of legal operators, which I in no case can support, and of course I take advantage, firstly, of this review that has been carried out in these criminal cases which were instigated prior to the entry into force of this reform which led to the review of thousands of causes, a work done by prosecutors, judges, lawyers of the Administration of Justice, also by officials, who must put into force, and also the work done by the Council of Galicia, who has given all the means requested by the Prosecutor to carry out this review. That they are unable to value this revision made is not understandable. Mrs. Vilán, you know there were many causes in the criminal court that had been under investigation for years, without any action being done. How do you explain to a person who has been in that situation for a long time that you do not agree that these causes have been reviewed, that decisions have been made, that those that were in provisional substance have been filed, that the practice of diligence had been resolved when necessary, when there was a place for archiving, the archiving, and when not, the intermediate phase, that procedure, or also the declaration of request for complex causes, as has happened in about 4,000 causes in our community? Well, you insist on the derogation from Article 324. Your arguments are that you don't have time to carry out the instruction. Look, there used to be – before the reform – a period that was also inoperable, a period of one month, well, that had no procedural consequences. Reasonable deadlines are now established, which are not arbitrary, because they are established by the statistics themselves of judges and prosecutors, and also have procedural consequences. What are we saying? Look, we're going to shorten the time when you're going to do facts and also who you're responsible for, and we're going to do so because, look, what can't be the causes open indefinitely. This reform tells you that it opens up problems that we didn't have, or that there were no problems. Look, this reform has allowed, to begin with, the attestations where there were no known authors do not reach the judges, which has just informed the General Council that there is a reduction in the workload in the judges by 30%. Well, I think that the justifiables will thank you for concentrating on the legal operators precisely on those issues that require strict instruction, and, besides – I mean – in a court like the criminal, that doubles the workload with respect to other jurisdictions. You're talking impunity for crimes, you're talking amnesty. Look, the deadlines offer all the procedural guarantees. The law establishes the rules for adapting them to the reality of instruction, even interrupting them in case of secret, in case of substance. But it has to be said that, in no case, the filing of causes will occur by the mere course of time; never, if the necessary requirements are not given. And it must also be said that not only is there a deadline for the simple six-month cases, extended to eighteen in complex cases. In addition, it is possible to open special deadlines in the event that it is considered, of course, for justified reasons, that you will have to value the judge, of course, because if we were not faced with a short-term adjustment that would be useless. But look, I appeal to professionalism, and I absolutely trust the professionalism of legal operators in that regard. Look, do you know where the risk of impunity is? The risk I'll tell you. Look what the Greek prosecutors say. They say: "Prosecutors warn that the unlimited delay in closing the summaries impairs the effectiveness of the process and feeds the errors, to the point of causing its cancellation. More time means not on few summary occasions with more weak points. To avoid this, appeal to common sense and separate the cause into pieces. That, in addition to eliminating problems of undue delay, according to the Prosecutor's Office, plays a role of intimidation and pressure on the criminal organizations themselves, which see how quickly a trial is reached even though not all the pieces progress equally." Do you know where the risk of impunity is, gentlemen? Do you know where he is? It's in the rulings that they say years later for a very dilated instruction, that they're not exemplarizing, because they're extemporaneous, that they are also at risk for such dilated instructions that those responsible remain unpunished. Why? Precisely because errors or errors may occur in the instruction that results from the total or partial invalidity of the cause. And, above all, without forgetting the damage to all those people who remain in a position of imputation – now, research – for years and that after all this period it turns out that they are declared innocent or it turns out that their cause is archival. Well, here was amnesty and pardon. It seems to me an absolute irresponsibility. Why? Because I trust – as I said and reiterated – the professionalism of legal operators, prosecutors, judges, lawyers of the Administration of Justice, officials and of course the lawyers of the parties. Look, we share this reform, which in time seeks to foster the investigation of facts and the determination of its perpetrators. What this is about is that the person responsible is condemned quickly and whoever he is not, is also acquitted or declared his innocence with diligence. And, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u155	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u156	...we pursue with this reform agile justice, more effective and more efficient justice, and for that reason, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support your proposal. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u157	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez Barreira. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Vilan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u158	Thank you, President. I don't like to speak in the first person, but as you mentioned me in the first person, for the voicer of the People's Party, who knows I appreciate it. I, if I characterize myself for something – and my comrades know well – is because I have often defended questions that have to do with the judges who do not exactly match the doctrine of my party. Therefore, I do believe absolutely in the professionalism of all the people who work in the world of righteousness; I personally believe absolutely in all of them and in every one of them. But here are the prosecutors who protest, because it's the ones who have to do the reviews, and they say they give us time, because we've been a month and a day – which seems like a conviction, and the six months seem like a conviction – there's going to be a lot of judges leaving on vacation until August 15, there's going to be a lot of judges and a lot of prosecutors going on vacations, they have summer vacations for many officials, and it doesn't give them time to do that review these six months, and what's going to happen is that they're going to close. That's a problem, that's the problem, a real problem. I didn't say pardon, I didn't use that word. I quoted the Progressive Tax Union, which speaks of impunity and amnesty. I didn't say pardon at any time, because pardon is something else, it's another different figure. What I would like to say is to quote the Minister of Justice himself, now in function, Rafael Catalá, who says the following: "No. There are two distinct channels to obtain information about criminal causes in the process of instruction; that is, you cannot know how many are open. It also says: "The fact that I don't agree with them worries me, because they don't match the management systems that prosecutors and judges use; they're different; therefore, they don't even have communication with each other. I'm worried. It highlights the need for common information systems for all and for all autonomous communities and that we do not have these differences that we sometimes have." It seems he's talking about something else, but it's the Minister of Justice who's saying these serious things. And you can't access each other, you can't communicate, because systems are different. There is a very good example that a prosecutor put, which is the following: "If the president of El Corte Inglés wants to know how much he sold yesterday in his shops throughout Spain, press a button and you know it." Judges or prosecutors can't do it, because that button doesn't exist, and if it exists, it doesn't match one another's; not even the Minister of Justice knows how many causes are open. So it's very complicated that in six months they can do a review of nothing, in six or 18 months, to start in six months. "We have a problem," said the Minister of Justice. For if we have a problem, Houston!, stop you, you derogate this article – which, by the way, you didn't do it, that you did it another –, you drop it and we start again. I want to finish my speech by quoting someone who knows justice very, very, very, very, very, that is José Antonio Martín Pallin, who actually said that justice, to be fair, has to be agile, has to be quick and without undue delay. In fact, it is so and, in addition, it is a fundamental right. What we can't do is take our hair with an article that washes our faces, washes our faces, and that will provoke – I repeat – impunity, not pardon, but rather impunity and amnesty for many people who at the moment could be condemned by political corruption and corporate corruption, simply by an article that is pure makeup. What we can do, what we could do – and that's what we ask – is to insist on the derogation of this article, because we have a problem, according to the Minister of Justice, and start again with serious things, not with things to take hair to the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u159	Thank you, Mrs. Vilan. Proposal for a non-law of the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego, at the initiative of Mr Daniel Rodas Chapela and two other Members, on the demand by the Greek Government to the central government for measures to ensure the participation of the Greek workers on water outside the state for the forthcoming electoral processes. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Rodas Chapela and two other Members, on the demand by the Greek Government for measures to ensure the participation of the Greek workers on water outside the state for the forthcoming electoral processes
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u160	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u161	Mr. Rodas has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u162	Good morning to all and to all. The sea sector, as you know, suffers from an unsustainable situation, conditioned by the entry into the common market, but also by a number of other measures which show the inability of the People's Party to defend this sector as strategic for the economy of Galicia. For example, there is discrimination in the distribution of quotas per state, the application of a model of individual fishing rights that concentrates on a few vessels the quotas while most are not guaranteed either economic viability or employment. A model of miticulture conditioned by the great conservatories, which cause confrontation and deregulation of prices, with situations as anachronistic as the questioning of PDO. Or the shellfish, which suffers directly from a commitment and never finished Full Plan of our waters. Or an artisanal fishing, subject to coupons and quotas, as if this segment were responsible for overfishing, and not a model, a true example of employment and sustainability. To all these evils, we must add the State's disgust and abandonment throughout the democratic period, the inability to ensure that the Welsh sailors aboard the fleet of height and great height or merchant sea, oil platforms, etc., can exercise the fundamental right of vote. A problem that affects more than 10,000 seafarers, which the BNG centralizes in mariners' vote, but which goes far beyond that, because of the nearly 37 million people entitled to vote in the Spanish state, nearly 2 million people are residents abroad, of which only 10,000 people come to vote. BNG has been taking this initiative for more than 20 years, and the misfortune is that nothing has advanced. The latest reform of LOREG, in 2011, carried out by the Socialist Party and supported by the People's Party, instead of helping to improve the process, rightly did the opposite, made it worse. There is no longer any need to see the data. Before the reform, they voted about 32% and now only 5.75%, which shows the urgency of modifying this electoral law. The current legislation is neither realistic nor applicable to staff aboard Spanish flag vessels, since it requires, during the period between the call of elections and that of the celebration, that the ship should have planned to dock in a port previously known to the Spanish territory and warn it. And this is almost impossible for our sailors; much less feasible results for all those workers aboard foreign flag ships. Let us think for a moment how impossible it is to approach a Spanish port for the fleet fishing in Newfoundland, fishing in the Malvinas Islands, or long-range fishing in the middle of the Pacific Ocean, in the middle of the Indian Ocean or in the Atlantic. Equally disproportionate, it is necessary to comply with the requirements for voting of residents abroad, since registering in the Consulate may require large movements, to which the obligation to report it before or after the arrival of the papers must be added. By way of example, a longline mariner who caught himself because on Martinique Island, he would have to travel nothing more and nothing less than Paris in order to carry out the proceedings. Our country currently has 440,000 voters of foreign residents, who are now largely unable to exercise their right to vote for whom they consider, a fundamental right that must be extended to all citizens, but especially to those living in foreign countries or that their activities force them to be outside their country at the time of election. A state's urgent obligation to put the means in place and to make it easier for this right to be carried out. An anachronistic and shameful situation that should lead us to reflect, because we have made no progress since the transition, despite the different agreements in this Parliament, the different state legislative chambers, the commitments and studies committed, and even the working groups that have been implemented, even certain declarations. But the only thing is that the Welsh sailors were not able to vote, not even on May 25, 2014 in the European elections, not on May 24, 2015 in the municipal elections, not on December 20, 2015 in the state elections, not even now in the second repetition of these elections, and that, if they follow everything in the same way, they will not be able to vote in the elections to the Greek Parliament to decide the designs of this country, but above all to decide that many of you will re-approach and be here again to represent the Greek people. In addition, something that with a little will is perfectly sub-sanitable, because currently there are countries that have more advanced models, which at least in their own flag ships have models that are allowed to set up electoral tables on board ships, the so-called Swedish method, ensuring participation and exercise universal suffrage. But there are also others, through telematics or the Internet, that have been used in government elections, in the United Kingdom, in Estonia or Switzerland, in municipal elections in Canada or in primary elections in the United States or France, through electronic paperboard markers, something common in the current model of participation of political organizations, something that is also fashionable and has its most advanced model in the so-called Estonian model, for which you can vote from any computer in order to have an electronic identity card and an electronic reader where the card is introduced to verify its signature, and which has an approximate cost of 5 euros. Currently, there are even safe Internet voting platforms, where the voter you want to participate is identified either by means of PIN access or by means of a digital certificate. It cannot be that in this world of so high technology we are able to locate the freighter more than two thousand meters deep and fish it and the state is unable to articulate a procedure that guarantees the most sacred of democracy, the right to vote. It can't be that astronauts can vote from the moon and the military from Afghanistan, and our sailors from a boat can't carry it out. From the BNG we believe that it is time to demand and demand this historical demand, to put the technological tools into the service of citizenship, because in the 21st century it is necessary to guarantee the right to universal suffrage of our sailors, but also of all those who because of their work cannot be in their country at the time of voting. So, at least I ask you to adopt the unanimous agreement to re-establish the consciences of those who will occupy the seats of the next Congress in this new legislation, so as not to forget what citizens are demanding and, in particular, what they've been demanding our Greek sailors for years. But I also ask your lordships for complicity, especially those who will again occupy this House, knowing that they are indebted to the crew members of the Galician fleet and with many citizens who for multiple reasons have residence, residence, abroad. We're hoping to count on your support. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u163	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Popular Parliamentary Group, author of the amendment. Mr. Oróns.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u164	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. Without a doubt, the regulations governing electoral processes present aspects that are manifestly improved. Among other things, of course, to ensure that all seamen and members of the merchant navy are able to exercise their right to vote in conditions identical to the rest of the citizens. We all share this claim. This was reflected in the agreement that this House unanimously adopted in April 2007. The current regulation is unsatisfactory. Royal Decree 605/1999 envisages the specific aspects of the right of suffrage in special situations, among others, that of the staff on board; a regulation, however, insufficient to guarantee the effective vote of many seamen, who spend months without reaching the port. In a democracy there is no government or political party that opposes their citizens always voting, wherever they are. We are surprised that the BNG always presents this initiative in the pre-election period. We have a certain opportunism. With each electoral process, they record questions, but they don't always treat them. The role of spokespersons when they're in the opposition, but you've also been a government, and the vote of the mariners on board has fallen from their agenda, from a training that so much boasts of defending them. So tell me what were the managements that the Bipartite carried out and tell me what concrete results it achieved in this matter, because, as I know, they didn't have any managements or results. The BNG usually looks after problems, but few solutions, because it is difficult to articulate a system that has all the guarantees. Within the Constitutional Committee of Congress, precisely a subcommittee was created for the study of possible reforms in this area. You know as well as I do that question: in the drawer, because of the importance of the techniques for activating this type of voting devices. We are talking about ensuring the process clean-up and identification of the voter, security mechanisms in voting and transparency of results. And there are two reports specifically requested for the reform of LOREG, one from the Council of State and one from the Central Council, which are powerful, very powerful with regard to the problems posed by electronic voting. It's a mechanism that causes doubts and questions about the convenience of its implementation, and the formula for voting over the Internet still poses greater problems in the face of a very personal and secret act. From the People's Party and the German Government we will continue to defend the necessity of having a system that allows us to the last of our sailors, as far as he is, to exercise the right to vote freely and autonomously. That's right, counting on the maximum guarantees. In that sense, our group proposes an amendment based on the agreement adopted unanimously in 2007, in which the Government of Greece is urged to address the Spanish Government in order to seek a change in the applicable electoral legislation and to adopt the corresponding technical solutions for the personnel aboard fishing vessels, the merchant Navy and the Navy, in order to allow the exercise of the vote to seamen from the vessels themselves, with the development of a specific regulation for those alleged to guarantee the secret and freedom of the right to vote. You keep insisting that nothing is done. The Union has transferred our position to Madrid in a problem that particularly affects Galicia because of the specific weight of the Swedish fleet in the whole state and even in the European Union. But we will not defend systems without all guarantees. I would like to remind you that in 2007 you, the BNG, were the favorite partners of Zapatero, his budget crutch, and we note that aspects of this electoral law were changed, but at that time they didn't remember the Welsh sailors for anything. In addition, bear in mind that you are talking about an urgent reform of electoral legislation, when it is an organic law, it cannot proceed by this procedure, and less at the moment when we find ourselves, with a central government in functions, without legislative or executive capacity, and without predicting when the new investment of a new government will take place. We believe that our amendment is supposed to recover what we all agree on, bearing in mind, moreover, that you again bring a proposal not of law a bit misleading, that it remains very good at the gallery, but dare not put the casket to the cat. Tell us what this cascading thing is to be put on. Tell us clearly what is the formula that would be used to emit that vote of sailors aboard with full guarantees, since they all generate a lot of problems. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u165	Thank you, Mr. Oróns. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u166	Thank you, President. You will agree with me, ladies and gentlemen, that the right to vote is one of the fundamental rights in a settled democracy, but it turns out that there are many Greeks and Greeks who cannot do so, who cannot exercise this right, the right to vote, because to do so they have to overcome a number of obstacles that are insurmountable. In particular, in this initiative, the workers and the workers of the sea are involved when they are doing their work in -- the Redundancy -- high seas and the election calls take place. It's a sector of the working class that is required to spend long seasons without more contact with the world than telephone and Internet teams. The electoral law, which regulates the vote by mail for staff aboard high-level fishing fleet ships, is not adapted to the reality of this collective. In order to be able to vote, Spanish flag vessels must approach a Spanish port, but before doing so they must apply for registration on the electoral census by radiotelegraph. In this message, according to the law, they will record: the name, the names of the applicant person, his DNI, profession, age and ship where he is on board, the municipality where he is supposed to be, with street specification and number. They must also inform the port of arrival of their ship and when they do. The radiotelegraphy services, which in this case act as a delegated unit of the mail service, will be responsible for having the provincial census delegation forward the documentation to the port on which the ship will arrive. Finally, if everything goes well, the ship must reach the port marked on the requested date, so that sailors can exercise their right to suffrage. A little complicated indeed! It is quite impossible or totally impossible to carry out when, for example, they are near Newfoundland or Namibia or in the middle of the Pacific Ocean. And the results given to us by the National Institute of Statistics so reflect it. In 2004 two sailors voted; in 2008, 7; in 2011, 3. There is a clear need to adapt the electoral law to the needs of this sector, for example, with telematic voting or with electoral tables on the same boat, under the responsibility of the authority at that time, which is the captain. Furthermore, according to the People's Party's Member, in 2007 a PNP was adopted – with the votes of the PP and the PSOE – so I am told in the Galician Parliament to resolve the right to vote, but it turns out that, by taking this initiative to the Congress of Deputies, the same parties rejected it, which is strange to me. Let's see if anyone can explain it to me later! It must be borne in mind that in this sector as a whole some 100,000 people are employed, most of whom are Germans, because in our country the importance of the fisheries sector is a lot. I support and hope that this House as a whole will do so, to bring about a fair and democratic claim: that of the right to vote. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u167	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u168	Good morning to all and to all. We will support today's initiative of the Galician Nationalist Block because it is an absolutely logical claim. In 1977 the first democratic election came after the dictatorship of this country, but not democracy as a whole. It is clear that today there are many of the democratic eves of this country, and one of the fundamentals is not to guarantee a basic right as is the right to political participation through the election of representatives in the various chambers through the universal suffrage of the vote, made this one that is not guaranteed for those who work in the merchant navy or in high fishing, which – as has already been explained here – in many electoral processes cannot intervene. So much so that in the last December elections, only 3 of these workers and workers were able to exercise their right to vote. Three of the 10,000 or 15,000 that were then boarded and coiled. So we're faced with a democratic ejacuum that needs to be cured as soon as possible. It seems that the People's Party has come here today to say that it was concerned, that it was very important to improve these situations, but the People's Party is not interested in all voters anyway, it has a certain preference for those who are dead and can vote for the People's Party, or those who, having difficulty discerning where they are or how they are, are driven by the People's Party. So, there's a legal process started in Lugo, and for example, we all know what happened during this election campaign in Cambados, where members of the People's Party were driving people who in many cases did not know where they were going to vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] That's what the People's Party does: facilitate votes when voting...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u169	We're going to go easy, that there's only a few hours left to finish this legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u170	I'll still have the blame this time, too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u171	No, sir, you're not guilty. Don't worry, you'll have your time. Now you're not to blame, what happens is that you took me talking to Mr. Puy and took me sneaky, man. [[Laughter]] Go on whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u172	The truth is, if we didn't have this president, we would have to invent it, because it gives us unique moments. Turns out he was freaking out when I was talking in the Chamber! [[Laughter]] I continue. He said the People's Party, very accustomed to driving, is concerned about that sort of voter, but he's not worried because workers exercise their right to vote. Therefore, we believe that this continence that affects many crew members, which can be between 10,000 and 15,000 in each process, can be healed with such a simple element as can be directly the implementation of the telematic vote, that despite what is said here is an element that can be done safely now, because there are technical elements to do so, what happens is that there is no intention. And look, it's not a question of who benefits or who prejudices this kind of vote, or who these voters are, that's what they miss. The right to vote is a fundamental right and must therefore be guaranteed, regardless of whether or not it is for those who are in the Government at every moment. So, for example, things wouldn't happen the way they happened during these last elections, when that happens! the votes of En Marea did not appear on the envelopes of those who, while in Europe, had applied for their vote, and precisely.........these votes did not appear. [[Murmurs.]] Only those didn't appear...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u173	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u174	...in the envelopes that came to the homes of the people who asked for the vote. We are therefore calling for a reform to be carried out as soon as possible in addition to being voted unanimously in this House on two occasions, and already in this House it was said that it was easier to vote as a member of the Holy Company than being a sailor on board. So we are absolutely in line with the initiative and we don't understand the hypocrisy of a People's Party who blames those who have not ruled in Madrid, as it here blamed the BNG, which I know never ruled in Madrid, when they, after that unanimous proposal of 2007 had enough opportunity to do their best to make this change, but again, they demonstrate their ability to political trilerism, saying in this House one thing and exercising another thing in Madrid. So we hope that, once and for all, coherence in acts prevails in the People's Party, although we know it's usually not so, because it was neither the first nor the second nor the third time that a unanimous proposal on this subject is approved in this House and in the state and the People's Party, when ruling, it does nothing. Let us hope that when I become Vice-President of the Government, or Secretary of State, Mr. Jorquera will be able to take this initiative [[Laughter]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u175	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u176	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a bit surprised by what Mr Oróns said about the low security of electronic voting or by telematics. Look, my experience, since you can manage everything from the internet, is that I only get to the ATMs to get cash; I don't get to any bank office. Transfers, bill payments, I do everything in my modest economy, you imagine what companies do, moving millions and millions of euros. What does that mean? It is safer to move capitals, with what one plays, than to move the will of a person, who also has constitutional rights, article 23 of the Constitution... in a democracy, of course, in other regimes as much as he gives, what he gives! I don't know if there's that right in Burkina Faso. Of course, this is a democracy here, theoretically in the first world, but it turns out that our sailors in the Indian have to carry armed surveillance paid by their own company, they have to be subjected to tremendous tension and in terrible working conditions, and above all their state, all of us, who have the capacity, we deny it in practice. We do not formally deny it, but in practice we tell them: in addition, you withdraw the constitutional right to vote and elect your representatives. That's right, and there's no turning around. And of course, when we put the vote in a plea... I want to be fair here. It is true, the agreement of two parties in Madrid, the majority, with the opinion against the Socialist Party of Galicia, and I am also told that of the People's Party of Galicia. I don't know the mess they had with theirs in Madrid, I know what I had, and what was the position of Galician socialists about it. We don't share it, and we obviously have to assume it because it's law. What did the Bipartite do? Well, I know that not everyone has to be obliged to know everything that has been done in this House, but I believe that there is an obligation, at least of pedagogical teaching, of the majority group to say what has been done, because precisely Mrs. Yolanda Díaz, Mrs. Paula Prado and myself, to defend in the General Courts a bill agreed and approved in this Parliament, which was accepted in the General Courts for their debate, and which continues to sleep the sleep of the just ones. Look, please vote. I'm just gonna give you three data because I don't have much time. In 2008, 34.8% of residents voted outside. In 2011, or 4.2 per cent, as long as the vote requested is introduced. At 2015, or 2,52%. You can imagine that, by means of a legal reform that we have introduced in this Parliament, they could only vote less than 3% of the citizens of Santiago who had the right to vote. I think we'd be running around, and they'd be right! Because we were depriving 98% of Santiago de Compostela's citizens of their right to elect their representatives. And we're doing it all over with a trap. Making it impossible to exercise a constitutional right. There are other formulas. The captain of a tuna boat in the Indian can marry the head of machinery and fishing, two supplied sailors, sits it in the logbook, and it's legal. And yet, a captain of the same tuna, in the Indian, turns out he can't identify his crew, put an urn and broadcast the result of the screening by radiotelegraph. Just like we sent him from an election table here. It's okay! It's okay! It's just a matter of will. What do you mean, man? What do you mean, no? But if it's already done! Look, the state has been looking for formulas, with the same electoral law, so that our troops who are on humanitarian missions – in some cases not so humanitarian, that we just discovered that we Iraq went to parade and dance the cumbia, because we said we weren't at war, so Trillo said... So what did our people die of? From the excitement of the parade? Man, man, man! Let's not insult the intelligence of human beings! If formulas were sought so that our soldiers in Bosnia, Lebanon, Iraq could exercise their constitutional right to vote, because it is not so difficult to find formulas for our sailors, wherever they are, to exercise their constitutional right to elect their representatives. We do not present amendments because this has been debated here until satiety, it has already been said. We have initiatives promoted by us, by the People's Group, by the Galego Nationalist Block... I have already lost account of all the groups that we present here initiatives and that we reach consensus throughout the various legislates. And in Madrid – I regret to have to say it because it's almost a nationalist slogan, and I'm not nationalist – gives the impression that in Madrid they don't understand us, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u178	I agree with Mrs Soneira that, indeed, in Madrid, we do not understand the reality of Galicia. Mr. Oróns was talking about better aspects. Well, look what we've been doing for a while, eh! We have taken time with this kind of initiative. You call us opportunists. See if you couldn't turn this opportunism into reality! Because it will soon do more than ten years since the BNG brought this initiative here and was approved by this House as a whole. And look, Mr. Oróns, a very clear little thing. The BNG doesn't control the problems, nor is it capable of finding solutions. We have had a short experience, but an experience where we have shown that we are betraying transformative proposals from this country, such as the wind competition, the land bank or the press in German, in which you were a real fan. So we are in a situation, in which it is already worth preaching!, what we want is to move forward and get specific questions. In the name of the BNG, I could apologize for not reaching enough support for the last 20 years to help win the mariners' rights, but I also ask the mariners to be critical of who on his day has approved this initiative in this Parliament and for 20 years has not done anything. Especially those with whom Galicia has represented the last seven years before the Spanish Government. But also the one who held an absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies, so that once and for all this right was settled. We can all agree that the requirements of the current regulations to be seized on certain dates in a state port are totally impossible to carry out. It is rigid and completely formalistic. We therefore call for a critical review, since the current one dissuades the vast majority of those included in its scope, achieving a null application. And since there are technological tools with advanced programs that would help solve this problem and guarantee the universal right to encourage participation in solutions even more appropriate than you expressed, which is the Swedish method. Or even much more acquiesces than the method [...], we have the idea that this is to be seen, to study and, if possible, to go much further. Because Mrs. Soneira already said so, if we've already made the Fairy statement on the Internet, if we've already bought and sold, if we do all kinds of economic transactions, how are we not going to use those tools so that the Greek citizenship, and in particular the mariners on board, can conquer a universal right? So, your amendment is completely restrictive, it's going back to the past, and we're asking you to move forward and that the rights are in line with the reality of the demand that our mariners are making, and that's why in the next elections... that's why we're asking urgency, because for more than ten years you haven't been able to do that. What we ask is that more than statements, and that more than support in this House, in Madrid, progresses to gain the right to be reality. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u179	Thank you. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and seven other Members, on the provision of the Greek citizenship set, by the Galician Union, of the É-Saúde Platform, developed by Sergas to improve communication with patients and with citizenship, as well as to increase health literacy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u180	This motion for a non-law has been tabled with an amendment by the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u181	To formulate the proposition, Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u182	Thank you, President. Good morning or good afternoon, gentlemen. The People's Parliamentary Group today presents in this House a non-legislative proposal that has to do with the introduction of new technologies in the prevention of people's health and the ease of access to their data, clinical history, appointments and hospital reports. The Galician Health Service has been working since last year on the E-Health Platform for the Improvement of Health Literacy, defined as the ability of individuals to obtain, process, understand and apply health information, and thus make the most appropriate decisions in relation to it. In particular, it is a new technological tool for personalizing services for people, which makes people from anywhere and device – a mobile phone, a tablet or a computer – citizens can access services and personalized content based on their profile, whether a sick person or any other healthy person, who has an interest in actively collaborating in improving their health and preventing future diseases, including advice and data for the early diagnosis of them. The Galician Health Service aims at developing innovative models of communication with society, promoting the availability of digital communication channels and providing a proactive attitude for citizens to achieve more efficient services and better informed citizens, more involved and, therefore, more autonomous in relation to their health. In order to promote the active participation of patients in order to improve the project, several workshops were developed on the platform, during the past year, with representatives of the Patient Advisory Council. The E-Health Platform is currently developing and piloting in different health areas, with a progressive increase in the size of user groups. It has reached 80% with Feder funds, and the remaining 20% has been approached by public health in Galicia, within the framework of the regulations of Hospital 2050 and Innova Saúde initiatives, and is related to Digital Home, another of the projects that are being launched since the Galician Health Service. The platform is being developed by a commission led by Sergas's central services, in which they participate in the Sub-Direction of Attention to the Citizen and Quality, the Public Health Directorate, the Information Systems Directorate and the Directorate of Health Care, with the technology support of the project's adjudicatory company, through open procedure. On the other hand, there is a technical commission composed of Sergas health professionals from many different areas, such as hospital and primary medical professionals, nursing and pharmacy personnel, Sergas documentaryists, quality methodology experts and patients. as already mentioned, they are actively participating in this project. How does the platform work? This has different levels of access, maintaining the security, confidentiality and the necessary rigour for the different uses made of it. Any previously identified Greek citizen, and with a maximum level of safety, can access his or her clinical history, print his or her high-level reports, radiological tests or analytical results. More openly, and without prior identification, users who wish to do so will be able to enter the platform and find web pages related to a particular health problem, as well as access to information sheets, patient associations, community forums and chats, and the entire training offer of the Galega School of Health for citizens, and even videos about health campaigns. Technology 2.0, developed in the E-Health Platform, will enable the patient's needs and interests to be identified according to his profile, proposing material that may be of interest to him, according to his previous research or his own characteristics. The intention of Sergas is that knowledge generated in any of his different departments, such as guides, procedures or recommendations for patients, be easily accessible to Greek citizens through a search engine. To communicate with other patients and professionals through virtual communities and establish alerts, reminders, goals and health goals for the care of their own health will be some of the activities that users can carry out from any electronic device. Es-Saude will allow patients to access the schedule of appointments updated in primary or specialized care, which will allow them to complete it with appointments and personal events. In this way, the user can consult from his/her smartphone when he/she has to collect a prescription from the pharmacy, when he/she has to go to a medical consultation, when he/she is performing diagnostic tests or when he/she is doing health promotion activities. You can also consult services and participate in communities with your doctor and nurse, and with patient associations to share doubts or lifestyle recommendations. Users will have the assurance that all information will be hosted on the web server of the Galician Health Service, with the consequent legal and technological security that this entails. Recently we were able to read in the press that: "Galicia leads a European plan to move technological innovation to treat patients. Institutions from Germany, Poland, Italy, the Basque Country, the Netherlands and Scotland are involved in the project." It was last week, July 5th. Galicia will coordinate a European plan, together with seven other entities across Europe, for the exchange and implementation of technological systems in the field of health, focusing mainly on the active ageing of the population. In the project TITAN – which are the English acronyms of words that I am not as brave as the president will not dare to pronounce – the Health Knowledge Agency will lead a team in which health innovation agencies participate. The plan, selected from 261 candidatures, has an budget of EUR 1 700,000 from European funds, and the Greek Government is close to 380,000. Among the objectives of the program is the transfer of emerging initiatives from the health and market, and lively, as well as encouraging actions involving citizens, such as the É-Health Platform, which is being piloted and which allows citizens to consult their clinical history, or the treatment of medical appointments and reports through an application for smart phones. Members of the People's Group of Galicia think that this platform will represent an important tool for citizens' accessibility to their reports, diagnostic evidence and data of their clinical history, always with the necessary security conditions for identifying the person who accesses the data, and also as a channel of health information and citizen participation, with or without health problems, for their health literacy and that improves their knowledge and their involvement on different diseases, prevention and diagnosis. That's why we are presenting this initiative, urging the Galician Union, once the pilotage results have been evaluated, to progressively extend this platform to the whole of Galician citizenship. We expect the support of the different groups. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u183	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u184	Thank you, President. Good day again. To say that the non-law proposition that the People's Party brings here today is, apparently, very beautiful; we see a wrapper, but we don't see the content. When we talk about the E-Health Platform, which is said to be a major change in people's participation, we talk about the platform for future telemedicine. Yes, of course, it seems that it will allow us to access more information and have better communication. You gave a description of the technologies, the mobile, the smartphone, a tablet or a computer. And we're talking about the philosophy of mHealth, which is part of which any Greek person can access all the existing services that Sergas has over it. I'm not going to go into all the description you did either because, more or less, I think most of the present have heard it. If you say that it seems that this project began from the participation of all the people and patients who were summoned by the Advisory Council. The design of the tool itself, which took place last year, was formed by a multidisciplinary committee, led by the Assistant Directorate for Patient Care and Quality and information services of Sergas, and the self-adjudictory company of the public contest, which is one of the great multinationals. The project, which was initially piloted at the end of 2015, over 200 people, controlled users, and in March 2016, with coupons from two professionals at the Fontenla Maristany Health Centre, of the integrated management organizational structure of Ferrol. This month, we're talking about the participation of 3,000 people, and I know there's been a call to several patient associations. The presentation was also made in Vigo's own organizational structure, even appeared there to that former health adviser. It's said this year is going to be implemented throughout the Greek citizenship; it's not, in fact, too clear. I also have my doubts about the management of clinical information about all patients. We know that today the service of medical history depends on a private company, which takes all the work. And they even talk about that an unuser can access some kind of information. This responds to a problem that Galicia has fundamentally, and also all Europeans, which is the increase in health costs resulting from the ageing of the population, with the care taken of a growing number of chronic patients, maintenance and improvement of the quality of care. We are at a time when there was a serious and great qualitative retreat in public health, with the privatization of most services, with a commercial and neoliberal policy that puts health as a business, and at risk for many sick people, who seem to be negotiating with economic criteria what treatment is. It's said you're subsidized with the Feder Funds, which I'm going to talk about here, but you don't specify a quantity either; there's a great darkness about this type of funding. While it is true – and here it supports the World Health Organization – that almost 90% of the world's population can benefit from the opportunities offered by mobile technologies and at relatively low cost. But we know that there is also a serious social policy on access to the Internet in the population in Galicia, in the territory of Galicia. And when we talk about old age, we also know that there's a serious problem for people to access, because they don't know it either. So this involves another series of things. I'd also like to mention, before I move on to the amendment I present, a data. Five years ago he made himself a platform at the state level, which was mHealth, who was a pioneer. And I also mean that this kind of app today is a great business. In fact, it's estimated that by 2018 it has a value of 61,000 million euros; that is, it's a very greedy cake. To comment that the application he was talking about was put the test at the university hospital in Torrejón, which is public and private, managed by a private insurance; and here they even talk about the great economic savings they have made. What I do want to underline about the amendment I present is that the platform is very good, but that doesn't have to go against what health professionals are, because I think it's also going to be an excuse for saving staff. This type of platform we don't know exactly what incidences it had. We know, yeah. that contributed the patients to elaborate it. What is to ask is that it be prepared with Sergas' own resources, and also that the money paid by Feder be invested in a coherent way and not taking money, as was done with the famous bus hospital, and other rooms – which in the end were known as party rooms – and also increased investment in R+D+i and greater stability, because we have to bet on research and technology, but with consistent criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u185	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u186	Thank you, President. No problem has this group with the existence of educational information tools and tools. We are, in fact, advocates of transparency and education. But this initiative could even be considered a lack of respect for primary care and public health, coming from whom it comes. I say this because education for health should be fundamental to the public health system, but unfortunately we know that education for health has its highest exposure to primary care. It's not through a computer tool, it's through primary care professionals where health education is done, mainly from nursing, also from medicine, and above all also generated or related to health designed for the community. However, we think that by transferring a computer tool we solve the problem of health cuts related to primary care. The People's Party eliminated 20.5% of the primary care budget in seven years. We have the health centers with less and less professional, with more and more workload, with less and less resources, and even with the closure of some of the centers. So, the truth is, it's incredible that you, the same ones who cut down primary care, which is the basis of education for community health and health, bring about an initiative precisely to educate and train. That's why I was referring to what was practically insulting, because, indeed, in order to be able to educate in health, we have to have a fat primary care, embedded in the community and, obviously, with human and material resources. The People's Party has amortized 1,154 primary care squares in two legislates. You are loading the health model based on prevention and health promotion; it is therefore insulting to bring this initiative here. And of course there was Mrs Farjas in the presentation, because since December 2014, as she had been without a job since December 2014, who gave up her position when Minister Alfonso Alonso entered, right now you had to put her in, and you put her in charge of this program. It is also almost insulting because all the information – and we have denounced it here – is practically privatized. It is increasingly difficult for health professionals to access health management data and health data, to do even studies, to apply medicines, to give an example. It is practically impossible to access all data because they are in private management. Why don't you – we have proposed on one occasion – join the Oncology Center in public health? Why is all the data on Galician cancer in the hands of the Oncology Center and not in the hands of the Galician Health Service? Why don't you integrate it? Why don't you join the biomedical institutes too? Why do we continue with clinical history in private hands, in Indra's hands? Why do we continue with privatized databases? Why do we continue with the privatized electronic recipe? Why is the call station still private? Why are we still with private teleassistation? You're making it easier to privatize all the data on the health of the Galicians and the Greeks. They are investing hundreds of thousands of euros, millions of euros from Europe – from the ERDF funds, indeed – in information and innovation systems. Hundreds of thousands of euros that will stop private companies. And the worst thing is that that investment doesn't revert to our health or even our public system, because, finally, it's not us who have our own data in our hands, but that all the innovations, all the information systems, are in private hands. Obviously, it is becoming more and more difficult to access the data. Tell me if I can access the waiting data on non-structural waiting through some health platform. Tell me, because all the data we've been asking for in four years is not accessible. Tell me if I can, as a professional, access to the pharmacodynamic data of a drug without having to be on an innovation platform to do a study. Tell me. You know that there's the big health business, so you're privatizing all information systems, all innovations. All this is no longer public, at least your management is not public, and you know, in addition, that the purchase of software or the purchase of hardware or software is not contrary to the fact that later management is direct, be public. So they recover investment in primary care, start the recovery of computer systems and public health information systems, and we can talk about extending these kinds of tools. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u187	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u188	Good morning. Mr People's Party, thank you for coming here to read us the press release of the Health Council on this subject. It's always, more interesting than reading it, listen to it from his voice. I tell you this without accuracy, but it is that the truth is already too recurring that the People's Party comes after again with advertising, propaganda, reporting, bringing initiatives of things that the Council already has in place, which it has already advertised, which has already presented in press rounds and in front of professionals. The truth is, you'll find it normal, I think it seems to me a lack of respect for this Parliament, because here we have to do a task of control and impulse, but to ask you to move on or to put in place issues that you've already advertised that you're going to do, it certainly doesn't seem very respectful of those we're here. I'm telling you frankly. It brings here today the E-Health Platform, Health 2.0, virtual health; again the Hospital 2050, again Innova Saúde, and under these umbrellas of European funds, from Feder Funds, it captures the advice of the People's Party and gives them directly to private companies to present products and remain with the information. Projects with European funds from which then, in a very important part of them, nothing is known. Do you come here, introduce us to the media, and then, in what way did you focus on the health or quality of life of the people to whom this virtual health is theoretically going to be addressed? Only a few times or no one brings that assessment. We're worried about this way of doing things. What do we know at this point about these technology projects? It would be good if on one of the issues brought here, such as those floating buses, that health on a bus, on wheels, where an important amount of money was invested, he told us what state it is, for example. What we do know is that behind these technological projects, there are companies that come out, and we know the connections of these companies. That's information we have. We know that, year after year, there is an exponential increase in the budgets of the Union devoted to these information and information technology companies. Second data. We know that the Health Council is full of technology projects like this. We know that in this case it's a good place to occupy one of the former advisors. The other one seems to be there too, for counseling, in some matters. We know it's a good way to put the pieces in the People's Party. What if we know – and we are greatly concerned, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party – is the continued transfer of information to these technological companies. We are deeply concerned about the continued transfer of public information, patient information, health information to these technological companies without guarantees. We know, and are concerned about the transfer of crucial data from the public health system to these private companies, because the information is power, and the People's Party in Galicia, in the Health Council, is moving that power of information systematically to private companies, which are soon the ones that decide what health we have and what is done. So, what do we meet up with? With public health increasingly having less decision-making capacity, and, on the other hand, there is greater capacity for private and technological companies, such as programme and information managers. What we know is that there are a lot of questions and very little certainty. We know and fear that what is more and more is a gap in access to health, to this technological health, Mr. Núñez Centeno, that there are very important gaps in accessibility. It's very good to be told that they want to facilitate access to training and information on technology media, but I guess they're aware of what the reality is of an immense part of the population of Galicia, that they don't have access to those technology systems, or, if they have access, they have very little ability to manage after them. So here comes my second question. What are they going to do to eliminate that gap or that accessibility difficulty for that important part of our aging rural population, which has no access capacity to that technological part? Because he knows there's an important group of people who won't have it. How are they going to solve that accessibility problem? Will they provide resources for primary care so that professionals are the real managers of the population...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u189	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u190	...necessary for health care? Or are they going to replace primary care, professionals, with technological systems? These are issues that you would have to explain here before you bring us these kinds of questions. What did they dump on that platform? The real information, the real information on the waiting lists, the structural lists?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u191	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u192	It's over, Mr. President. Or will it simply be the publicity and propaganda of the People's Party? So, as long as you don't answer these questions and we don't know for sure, I would like to thank you for using this Parliament, really, for questions of impulse to the Government and not to come here with advertisements and advertisements.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u193	Thank you. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u194	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Mr. Centeno, you know that I appreciate you in your staff, so I'm really sorry that your group forced you to bring such initiatives; useless initiatives that only serve advertising and propaganda. And I take this useless initiative, sir, because we look at what you are asking for. Ask your Government that, once the results of the E-Health Platform have been evaluated, if these are positive, they progressively extend to the whole of Galician citizenship. But it turns out, honourable Member, that two months ago in Vigo the Counsellor – by the way, Mrs Farjas' hand, now as coordinator, precisely, of that E-Health Platform – announced the bombo and plate that this computer device –read textually – was all a success and would soon be implanted throughout Galicia. So, honourable Member, what is the point of your initiative? Tell us. I'm asking you, but who I asked was our comrades. Yes, to those professionals you defend so much but then they have so much hurt. I asked them what this e-health platform looked like, and I'm going to repeat it here, textually, what they answered me. They said, "That's a Chinese story." That's a Chinese story. And then they asked me, and so I moved him, to tell the gentlemen that they were in the debate in this Chamber to try to find information on the status of Sergas waiting lists. Try it, ladies. Please try. Or locating, they also told me, the memory of the activity of the health centers and the hospitals of Sergas. Try it, try it. By the way, they made me see something, too. So for a person to be able to consult his or her history, or that analytical result, through an electronic device, that story and that analytical data has to be computerized, it has to be connected to the network. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that for today no public hospital nor any Greek health center has completely computerized its stories. Since I checked... Don't get nervous because I checked with the professionals in the clinical documentation. Maybe they're all wrong, but they made sure they're the ones doing it in many hospitals, and they told me they didn't have it complete. By the way, I came to say a sentence that I'm going to repeat here because I liked it. I was told that in the only place where the use of the E-Health Platform is secure and widespread is like the screensavers of the computers we have in Sergas. That was the answer they gave me. In addition, they strongly criticized – I think this is interesting – something they marked as mania. He introduced the government's mania to prioritize the design of computer engineering on the criterion of clinical utility. According to them, there is a divorce between computers and clinicians due to lack of communication, which causes these devices, and many others that are making them easier, in practice, neither solve nor become useful. I was told that it seems that they're only going to be useful for private companies, that they're going to charge for these impractical designs. And if that's what I was told, honourable Member, professionals and professionals, I don't tell you what the users and users of patient associations told me, which I'm going to tell you. Look, they asked me to transfer their anger – directly angry – to see them with that platform – they were very correct – when they still don't have enough insulin needles to punch their children, when – and I repeat what they told me – they have difficulty accessing medical treatments – they are reading textually – and when they are suffering years of waiting to do tests or to operate, for example, cataracts. And they came to me in a very humorous way: perhaps, the device serves to remind us of the closure, because as a year passes, many times, when the day of the consultation comes, they forget them, because of course, after a year...! And they say, see if they put an alarm on him, and after a year, he reminds us of the appointment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u195	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u196	Mr President, I am afraid that this is the reality, so you will understand that we cannot support a useless, auto-bomb initiative and, above all, electoralist initiative, despite the fact that it is an initiative that refers to the health of the Greeks and the Greeks. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u198	Thank you, President. We regret the lack of support from the Socialist Group. I can't regret or thank the rest of the groups, because I don't know the meaning of the vote. Ma'am, this is the screen that I suppose you say is the background, but these are health care screens, assigned professionals, appointment management, waiting list query, active medication sheet, dispensation plan... I think this is on the page, and I don't think you've looked at the platform. I don't know what personal you know, either. I don't know, because the truth is, they say some strange things. With regard to the Joint Group, I would like to remind you, Mrs Fernández, that Mrs Farjas would be working and she didn't stay unemployed, in case she didn't know. Research institutes are public, and in no case do companies own information. Mrs. Solla, I would never try to miss the primary care professionals because I'm a primary care professional, and I don't think it would be very appropriate. Of course, what Galicia is, ladies and gentlemen, is the first and only autonomous community that has an online communication platform and services. Many theoretical training sessions were held between professionals. They mustn't be Mrs. Acuña's friends. It has a security system that is the basis of the electronic DNI or the key system; a security system that can be activated through the website, or soon in the health centers themselves. It's on Facebook, on Twitter, on Google Plus, it has a video channel. This contract was lawfully awarded in 2014 and was awarded in 2015. All the money invested in it is public. Contracts with companies – which are mentioned in the amendment – were absolutely transparent, as could not be otherwise, and published in various official bulletins and newspapers, including those of the European Community itself, and awarded by public tender. As early as 2011, Galicia was a pioneer in the first time of the European Union's technological public funds for public health service projects. I, of course, always remember the problems that Ianus was facing. I was already working when Ianus started and it was all protests. It was very good a program that there was, which was another autonomous community other than ours, and ownership of it, and that was very bad. And now it turns out that it's a reference to the state, and even European level, of what it's clinical history, which is by the way property of the Galician Health Service. I suppose in a few years of the E-Health Platform it will be the same as it is being said now. With regard to the amendment, Mrs Fernández, we are not going to accept it. We think the first point is already being fulfilled. The schedule depends on multiple technological and professional factors, it's hard to set an exact date. The evaluation is under way, and I think there will be no problem in which the Council reports in writing, although I personally doubt the benefit of that publication. The platform is made with its own economic resources, and on the technological issue I suppose you will understand that you had participated in a company, after an absolutely transparent contest. All right, I don't know if they want us to nationalize in Galicia Telephone, I don't know. Professionals and citizens have already participated in the development and implementation of the platform. And on the last point, we think it has nothing to do with the subject we're talking about. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u199	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Question 48018, by the People's Group. We suspended the session until 6:00. [[The session is suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 4 p.m.]] G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo García García and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the production and purchase of grapes in the different denominations of origin, the protection of the model of wine growing of Galicia and the granting of public aid to wine cellars
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u200	No amendments were tabled. Mr. García has the floor to formulate the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u201	Thank you, President. We are bringing here today an initiative that speaks of a sector in Galicia which, no doubt, from our point of view, economic and social vertebrae some regions of this country. It's true that like other agricultural sectors, even much wider and much bigger, but no less important than others. It is also true that this means virtually or absolutely nothing to this People's Party or its President, to Mr Feijóo. That idea that we need strong and profitable agricultural sectors to keep the rural world alive does not go with this People's Party or this president and, if I say well, with this party that you now represent or with this president, which we all unfortunately suffer. For Mr. Feijóo the concept of believing in the rural world begins and ends with his repeated phrase that he is a boy of the Pearls. Indeed, it seems that it was so, that it is a boy of the Pearls, and surely it was so because precisely not even Feijóo can choose where he is born; therefore that was not a decision of him. I have no doubt that it would be possible to determine where to be born and where to be born I would not, under any concept, have been born in the Pears – that I have absolutely no doubt about it – because I deny that world and deny politically. I don't know why facts will happen to history, but no doubt not by defense – I can have my version – nor by any aspect related to what might be a defender of our rural world. I suppose that because of that problem of concept for him – for this government and for him – the rural world is somewhat buccolic, it is something that is useful to put into the speeches, to make poetry – the thousand rivers, the green forests, the noise of the pines and all this sort of thing – but it also thinks that this rural world keeps itself so or that you can live there on the basis of that, of poetry and of making speeches, not of generating activity, not that people living there need every day something to live and if you will not stop living there. If we talk about wine, politics carried out is also summed up, or we could summarize it, in many sentences, I would summarize it in what Mariano Rajoy says, in that of "Long live he wine." And that's the end of everything that refers to viticulture. [[Murmurs.]] The wine sector in figures in Galicia – to give some figures –: 35 million liters, 400 and peak wine cellars, 17,000 jobs; i.e., we can't doubt the importance it has. That's right, it's a small production based on the quality of our wines. Obviously, Galicia cannot compete with other wine regions, whether state or European, in the quantity model; that is, we are a small drink in that large bowl of the third European producer. This initiative therefore speaks precisely of something simple but which clearly distinguishes us from you. The difference in this government of this People's Party... is that we think that, for example, when we analyze the data of any designation of origin, or when the director general himself comes to the commission to respond, or to ask the People's Group for a response, to do an analysis, a balance, of a designation of origin, because we are told by the export data, the investments of the Council, production, even the day-to-day climate in that particular area of the designation of origin or the wines produced and exported to each of the countries of the world, but it does not give us the data on how to collect grapes from the winegrowers. It's more, then, when this vocier, in the next commission, asks again exactly the same question that the PP asked, simply saying that if you forgot to say in your balance of how the grapes paid to the vine growers, you have to resort to a statistics from the Chart, which is not statistics, which is a simple survey because it has no data. I mean, in the five designations of origin of the wine we have in this country, we know all that data, until the temperature is being made right now. Counsellor knows, she has mechanisms to do so. However, the Counsellor is unable to know at the end of each campaign how the grapes are paid to the winegrowers, no such data is available. Why? Because they are not absolutely relevant to this government or this country. That is, the advisor, for example, enabled the mechanisms three years ago to have approved contracts for buying grapes in two of the five designations of origin, in the Holy Ribeira and in the Rías Baixas, and in a designation of origin there was not one approved contract; not one, in three years or one. The reward was that today's president of the regulatory council is a member of the People's Party in Madrid; that is to say, it clearly denotes the vision that this party has of the viticulture of this country. At a meeting, that same president – before he was a Member – of the five presidents of the designations of origin, in a forum that they made in Santiago, coincided only with two things – and I will read them textually because I believe it is important –: first, in that the real risk that existed for the quality of our wines, so that these quality wines would remain, was the disappearance of the grape purchase model to the winegrowers, to the small winegrowers. And the second element, too, where everyone agreed – including what was MP after the People's Party – is that the aging of wine growers seriously affected the sector's own future; that is, there were no wine growers left. Why? "Why don't they get wine growers?" Home!, the main problem is because they don't pay their grapes. Maybe from there by a lot of other things we could agree on, but the main problem is because they don't pay their grapes. And, therefore, today – and that's why our initiative – there is no articulation of any kind of mechanism either of interlocution or of table so that towards the harvest, when September comes, there's a prior negotiation and you can articulate that kind of contract. In such a way that the same thing that happened in the previous seven years of the Feijóo government: the harvest will arrive, the vine growers will have to deliver the grapes because the grapes cannot be kept or put in a freezer, but when they complete their cycle they must harvest, and then they will look at how they are paid, when they are paid and how much they are paid by the winemakers a few months later. And we propose there one of the measures – there are many more –, a clear and concrete measure, superrevolutionary, Trotskyist, Leninist, which was so simple that no one would argue: to invest public money and a lot of public money. You all have heard me here – those who listen to me, of course, only those who listen to me – complain about the decline in the games for the middle of the countryside; for example, that the Middle Rural Council in these years of crisis, like all the councils, has suffered a great decline in the allocation of their games. [[Laughter]] However, there is only one game that in all these years has not diminished a euro, which is the game dedicated precisely to helping wineries export wine; which I agree with, and I have never made an amendment to remove those resources, because it is important that our wines, since they are quality wines and have to compete in a market outside the country, need those aids to export. The only thing we asked of us – and what we did when we played and we'll do again when we touch us – is something as simple as you, who are going to give us public money to sell wine outside, that unless you demand that I then have a contract to buy the grapes to the winegrowers and they can negotiate with you the price of the grapes. Indeed something as simple as this and so revolutionary and so revolutionary and so revolutionary and so much there is no rule that forbids it – there is no nor nor nor nor nor nor is there any nor nor nor is there any nor nor nor do they have to comply for it not to be like this – this People's Party and this government – and I am beginning for the third time, this People's Party and this revolutionary and so much so revolutionary, because there is no rule that there is no nor does there have to be any nor do it – there is any rule that they have to comply for it to be such – this People's Party and this Government and this government – and I am beginning for the third time, this People's Party and this government – and I am beginning this People's People's People's Party and this government – and I am beginning for the third time, this people's People's Party and this people's People's Party and this revolutionary, and this government – and this government – and this government – and this then something as simple as it is so much revolutionary, and so much revolutionary, and so revolutionary and so revolutionary and so revolutionary and so much revolutionary and so revolutionary, and so much revolutionary and so much revolutionary, there is that there is that there is not there is no rule there is no rule that there is no rule that there is no rule that there is no rule that there is no rule that there is no rule – there is no rule – there is no rule – there is no rule – there is no rule – there is no rule that there is no rule – there is no rule that there is no rule that there is no rule that there – there is no rule that there is no rule that there is no rule that there is no rule which has to be that there has to be that there has to be that there has to be that there – there is no rule that there is no rule that there – there is no nor nor nor nor nor has to be that there is no rule that there is no nor nor nor nor nor has to be that there is no nor nor nor nor nor nor nor has to be that there is there is no nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor nor has to comply for there is there is there is there is there is there is there is there is a rule that there is a rule that there is that there is there is And that's what this People's Party, this government and this president have been practicing for seven years. And the worst thing is that they don't have a complex, they don't want to say it clearly, because, as I've told you many times, it's another radically different model than I stand for. But be brave, don't be complex to be the People's Party, don't be complex to be right...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u202	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u203	...defense your model. What's really shocking is that they're doing it with their political decisions every day and they don't admit it. I suppose a spokesman will come out here saying that, in fact, this enters freedom, enters the free market. This is not free market or freedom, that is, if we want to protect our wine model as we have it in this country today – and it seems that we all agree and the presidents also agree that it is a model to defend, since we have to compete on the basis of quality and not quantity – there must be wine growers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u205	...and you are subsidizing, defending and promoting the elimination of wine growers so that wine cellars and large wineries from outside Galicia remain with the vineyards of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u206	Thank you, Mr. García. Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u207	Good afternoon, President. Thank you. The lack of price agreements in the five designations of origin in Galicia without the Council had pushed negotiating tables or mediated in the disagreements leaves the producer sector – an identity sector in our country – defenceless to the industrial sector, which is the one setting the prices, but unilaterally, resulting in a serious loss in income to producers. The price of grapes is known that it has been under the cost of production for several years. This constant loss of income, coupled with the unfair distribution of subsidies and production rights, is driving out small family farms, as well as the possibility of renewal of them, destroying an important economic fabric of our punished rural environment. What does this sound like? At the same time, only companies in Rioxa, for example, presidents of football clubs, shopkeepers and speculators with dubious money, are the ones that are being done with the production rights and community aid to make large plantations in the communal mountains with the result of territorial disorder and environmental deterioration. Galicia lacks a stable negotiating framework to achieve economic and price agreements for a fair distribution of Community aid, because subsidies to small winegrowers are denied by the minifund of their plots. A number of years ago, the Wine Bureau was created by a parliamentary agreement, but no one has already agreed on the last time it was convened, and regulatory councils are neither transparent nor democratic, and the president or president is appointed to the finger, defending legal practices that distort supply and demand. It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to recover the price of the grape, which has been under the cost of production for years. It also requires a stable, inter-professional, negotiating framework to set the price of productions; information transparency in the Vineyard Register, which includes the registration of all Galician vineyards at no cost to producers for not losing a hectare of production rights. It is essential, as I said earlier, that a fair distribution – it will touch you, Mrs Oubiña – of subsidies so that all wine growers can access the aid to replant their vineyards, improving quality, reducing production costs and preserving the environment. And also democratize regulatory councils with transparent functioning so that they can be a genuine guarantee for both consumers and the income of small producers. A new wine-growing model for Galicia, to defend the income of small family farms, which are most of the ones that configure the economic fabric of the different denominations. Thank you for your attention. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u208	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galga de Left alternative, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u209	Good afternoon. I'll be pretty brief. It is a subject which we have discussed on many occasions, but which does not differ from what the People's Party is doing and what the People's Party is doing in Galicia in the productive sectors; in particular, we are discussing more often in the dairy sector, and this is still something similar, which is the de-protection of the first link of the prison by the administrations, who must guarantee the survival of the few agriculture that remains in this country. And it would simply be to comply with the laws that the People's Party itself approved. They have to comply with the law of the food chain, which you approved in 2013, which says that we have to ensure a proper balance in chains between production, industry and distribution, that we have to protect when sales are lost and that we have to pay the grapes in 30 days. Where do you charge grapes in 30 days? Where? What role does the Galician Union play when there are producers who have been unpaid for two years? What initiatives has the Galician Union taken in recent years to secure that recovery? Well, we're talking about that, we're talking about prioritizing the survival of small agriculture, which is why you don't bet; they have no political will to guarantee the survival of small production, which for us makes a lot of sense in a country where the rural environment is experiencing a indentation and where the wine sector has a huge potential to create added value in this country. Well, that's what's happening. To also guarantee a minimum price, covering production costs, which is not being covered by many of the designations of origin, and the real defence of approved contracts. For years now, the Galician Union was flagging the approved contracts, now it has abandoned that flag. It would also be desirable for the spokesperson or "speaker" of the People's Group to explain to us what the results of the agreements – for example in Lower Rías – of the last few years have been achieved and whether they are being complied with, and, in case they are not being complied with – as the producers themselves report – know that it is what the Junta of Galicia is doing to enforce them. [[Murmurs.]] I also agree that it is necessary to monitor, when providing subsidies to certain industries, even if they are wines, that at least comply with legislation, comply with the law of the food chain and that they do not practice abuses on the weakest sector in the food chain. For all this, we will support the non-law proposition of the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u210	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u211	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Sánchez said in his speech that, despite the importance of the wine sector, it has been little treated in Parliament's plenary, not so in committee, and perhaps the explanation is that the premiums in our country's agricultural sector were so much in other areas that the wine sector, which was undoubtedly the best resistance to the crisis, and also what best resisted the policies of the People's Party in relation to the agricultural sector, was the best sector to resist, mainly on two issues: the first one, because it has already been affixed long ago for a line of work that consisted of referring our wines as quality products, with a very good price-quality correlation, and that made it possible to bet on international markets, which was what saved the wine sector from the burning of the policies of the People's Party. Let me just express a couple of characteristics apart from those I said from the wine sector in Galicia: First, that is practically the only productive orientation that remains in very important regions of our country, and that in the province of Ourense, which is on the edge, the only productive sector that remains in the agricultural sector that can give it life are the four designations of origin of the wine sector that we have there. And the Greek wine sector, despite its atomization, has a feature of which we should not only be proud, but we should use it to dynamize the rural environment, which is of the whole European Union, which has a greater capacity to create units of work, so that by not representing the sector more than 2%, neither production, nor the acres of the state, it represents more than 14% of the jobs that are created in the wine sector of the state, and the Galician Union is olympicically spending this sector because it is now going to be more or less well. And the other feature: it is practically the only wine sector in the Spanish State that does not produce table wine for marketing, and much less for distillation or for other by-products of wine, as happens in other designations of origin or other territories. Here practically all the wine production of our wine growers is of quality wine and are covered by designations of origin. So, do we have as a country to guarantee the future for the wine sector? Those who are on the initiative presented by Mr García; undoubtedly, contractualization. Of course, if an element has helped to give stability to the sector and to allow between 2006 and 2007 to increase by 60% the export of Greek wines to third countries in the European Union was precisely that peace which led the sector to the existence of approved contracts, which not only guarantees how, when and how much wine growers charged their product, but also allowed both wine growers and wineries and processing industries to make planning – at least annually – of their result accounts, which is the only way to operate in economic terms. The second element that we must take into account. The European Union is moving forward in the common agricultural policy inexorably every day towards liberalisation. What happened in the dairy sector has also started in the wine sector. In the last reform of the CAP, the liberalisation of production rights, that is, they do not depend on the designations of origin, and that for the Italian wine sector is lethal. Fortunately, we have obtained a small moratorium, which is that by 2030 instead of operating on the basis of planting rights, it will operate on the basis of authorisations, but by 2020 that right that is not converted into authorisation loses all value. And we cannot agree as a country that the Spanish State does not defend with the European Union, and that the Union itself does not defend with the European Union, that that decision must be taken back from liberalizing the sector as well, because already that soft landing which has been decreed that each year it can increase by 1% the production which is not subject to planting rights is lethal to our wine growers. Therefore, the Galician Union should do what Mrs. Iglesias said is to resume an instrument recognized throughout the sector, from trade unions to cooperatives. There's been a writing from Ribeiro's Wine Cooperative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u212	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u213	...asking him, begging the Galician Board to make an approved contract to be able to sign with their producers. That they replace the Wine Bureau with all the courage, with all the tasks, and with all the competences that one day had as an element to ensure that among all of them they can work for the future of this sector, which, I insist, is the only productive sector that remains in very important parts of our country. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Blanco Paradelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u215	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Thank you very much, President. Well, less bad we were talking about a sector that is positively evolving, that has good production, marketing and export data! because, if not, what would we be, of course, hearing? Look, Mr. Garcia, we've been discussing the committee for four years. I even think this is the ninth time we have discussed this issue, and the last two in the month of January and May, and you do it, from that position of absolute truth... of course, what I have to say to you is that in rural areas you don't live since demagoxy, which is what you do. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, Junta defends the wine sector...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u216	Easy, easy! We will finish the full calm, for their health and that of all – including theirs –. Please, calm down, for your health and everyone's. Let's finish the whole thing. There's little left! There's little left for them to finish, Mr. Beiras, there are a few hours left. [[Mr. Beiras pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Let's take this easy. Let Mr. Blanco Paradello finish his intervention. Well, if you don't like it, you know what to do. [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Go ahead. I don't want to call anyone in order today. That's it. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u217	Thank you, President. I said that the Galician Union has betted on this sector for all these years, putting a great deal of money for aid to improve production and marketing, for the restructuring and conversion of vineyards, for the elaboration and modernization of wine cellars, for the promotion of wines, both in the national and international markets, for promotional actions, fairs, events, contests, dissemination campaigns, and, of course, also for the maintenance of regulatory councils. So these are realities. With regard to the subject of approved contracts, you know that the Rural Council is a defender of this type of model; it promoted them, encouraged them and favored them, in addition, through multiple meetings, but you also know that they cannot be imposed or forced to do so when some of the parties do not agree. You're talking again about setting minimum prices for grapes. I want to remember that you know that competition societies don't see this with the recommended legality. The only time it happened was in the Bipartite – and I know that, if I tell you, it bothers them – in the Pladimega, at the prices of the mexillon, and I brought with you, at the minimum prices, a fine of 3.9 million euros, where 1.8 million euros went for the producers and 2.1 million for the canteens. We don't want to lead the sector to economic sanctions. And the same thing happened with the cider apple in Asturias, with grape wine in Jerez or with the pope in Gran Canaria. We are also concerned about the fact that wine growers can collect the grapes, of course, and it's not true what you say they don't pay the grapes. In fact, the Spanish legislation, which sets out the measures for morbidity and measures to improve the functioning of the food chain, obliges that in transactions amounting to more than EUR 2,500 there is a written contract and the payment of the goods should be made as much as one month after the delivery of the grape. I also want to tell you, because you didn't say so, that Junta, through Igape, approved a three-year financial support line for the purchase and payment of grapes, for those wineries that signed approved contracts. On adjusting the yield of production in the denominations of origin, it turns out that you want to intervene in the free and democratic functioning of the regulatory councils. It's up to them to set the yields per hectare, and not, of course, to do it from here or arbitrarily impose it from here. On the wine-growing model, we didn't agree, of course. You – ignoring Galician social reality – want to end with the traditional model of part-time wine growers, with small family farms that receive income as a complement to other activities and incomes in rural areas. We argue that this model is compatible with the increasing presence of professional wine growers, without neglecting or leaving wine growers in part-time, so in the aid of restructuring and conversion, young wine growers and also professional wine growers, in search of an increase in the professionalization of wine growers, while at the same time enhancing the generational relief. I ask you, Mr. Garcia, what do you have against the cellars? I don't understand, really, because wine cellars generate jobs, both part-time and, in this case, full-time. Besides, wine cellars also work cooperatively, i.e. buying, buying grapes to growers. So on those help lines, too, if you make sure that these aids have approved contracts. But we don't want to leave or exclude anyone in this case. I want to finish, Mr. President, by saying that to me it seems to me that they are not correct in their diagnosis and that it leads them to wrong conclusions. It serves as an example the latest report of the Galician Economic Forum, coordinated by former President González Laxe, which carries out a detailed and in-depth analysis of the wine sector. For nothing and it doesn't even name or refer to the subject of the approved, which seems to you to be the main problem or the main solution. On the other hand, it speaks of the great evolution of the sector relevant to Galicia and with an increase in exports by more than 34%. And in its conclusions it coincides in this case with what we think, that we must continue to move forward in the processes of innovation, in technological advances, that we must take into account minifundism, that we must also strengthen the process of partial concentration, diversification and complementarity, for example, with topics as well as in tourism, in which it has worked both in the Union of Galicia – good shows are those routes of wine and those routes also by train – and to continue to improve the quality of wines and enhance strategies of internationalization. And that is why, of course, we think that the future and the great possibilities of this sector are. And it's always doing it as the sector's hand so far, because the data responds to public policies too and indicates that it's going the right way. We, and we're done now, do not want to intervene in the democratic functioning of the regulatory councils, do not want to violate the law with contractual taxes, nor do we want to lead the sector to which they impose penalties for setting minimum prices, nor do we want to exclude anyone from the aid or that traditional Greek wine growers disappear. And if I may, before I'm done, invite them all, because this weekend in Valdeorras is the Wine Fair. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u218	Author group of the proposal, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u219	Thank you, President. Mr. Blanco, I've always heard in my house, already with my grandparents and my parents, who were always a poor family but never cut them off, and it was something I keep trying to do. So I also try not to be a knife. If I were cutre, as was the president of the board this morning, for he would also do an equally miserable intervention that the president of the board did this morning. But I won't be, though he thinks you deserve an equal intervention of the cutre and miserable that Mr. President has done today. [[Applause]] First of all, by saying a few things about what he said, of the most serious ones: the designations of origin are excluded from the norm that there can be no minimum price, that's for generalist products. I say it by saying one of the things. I mean, I didn't say at any time there was a minimum price, but in any case, in any denomination of origin there could be a minimum price. Secondly, if you do two points, in fact, to the wine cellars that sign approved contracts, or with five points, you can give them 40. What's wrong? Let the wine cellars all agree; all the wine cellars agree so that no one has them and therefore they do not dominate anyone. So it doesn't work. They defended, promoted and defended the outermost nature of the approved contracts. I repeat to you, in Ribeiro, not one, and the president is a deputy of the PP. To be defenders and promoters of approved contracts and in three years have no one, because the advocates and promoters we have. Look, Mr. Blanco Paradelo, we've already said it in committee: what's wrong with you, where's the problem of conditioning public aid? I'm not even saying that we have to force, which could be, it could be by Food Chain Law that we force the wine cellars to enter into contracts with the producers, but rather tell them that if we give them public money so that you export the wine, which is why they export the wine, unless we demand that once they export the wine then they pay the grapes to the producers! What does this have as a revolutionary?, why do we have to oppose this concrete and clear measure, where is the problem of this? It's not fair, it's not logical, and it doesn't make sense. Tell me the truth: the problem is that you don't want wine growers to exist. And what you want is through the money that you've earned from planting rights, which are giving to Freixenet and other companies to plant vineyards in Galicia, and that we no longer need wine growers. That's what you've been doing for seven years, Mr. Blanco Paradelo. And I'm the only one I've ever asked you to go out there like a PP guy like God commands and recognizes him and says, "What about you, sir? What's the matter? And say that's your model, because mine is the other, and I defend mine; but you don't defend it. Why don't you recognize that? Whether your model is Falcon Crest or winery that owns vineyards, and that the winegrowers cease to be winegrowers and become journalists. And I'm not talking to them about part-time or full-time, I'm telling them about a model of viticulture that existed in Galicia, that every time, if you're still in government, there'll be less, where there were people who had vineyards and not because of that I had to have wine cellar, and I sold grapes to the wine cellar. And you guys want to load it. It's also true because almost all PP badges had wine cellar at the time. You're not the PP anymore, and you're nothing anymore, because neither cellars have any more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u220	We shall proceed to the vote. We begin by voting, firstly, that of the Joint Parliamentary Group, on the presentation by the German Government in the Galician Parliament of an industrial plan and the actions to be carried out in the field of employment. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Together, at the initiative of Maria Consuelo Martínez García, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Galician Parliament of an industrial plan, and the actions to be carried out in the field of employment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u221	We are now voting, secondly, that of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the Transatlantic Treaty on Trade and Investment, which are negotiating the United States of America and the European Union. The rapporteur has already stated that he did not accept the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. on the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García and five other Members on the action to be taken by the Government of Greece in connection with the Transatlantic Treaty on Trade and Investment (or TTIP), which are negotiating the United States of America and the European Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u222	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the presentation by the Government of a plan for the recovery and direct public exploitation of the hydroelectric leaps in Galicia at the end of its concession, as well as the information on the conditions laid down for its grant. He does not accept the amendments of the Socialist Parliamentary Group or the People's Group, but the author himself calls for a point vote. As you have two points, we are voting on the first point. We vote. Vote of point one of the G.P.'s non-law proposition. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Maria do Carme Adán Villamarín, on the presentation by the Government of the Greek Government of a plan for the recovery and direct public exploitation of the hydroelectric jumps existing in Galicia at the end of its concession, as well as the information concerning the conditions established for its grant. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 16; against, 54. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, the point one of this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u223	We now vote on point two of this non-law proposal. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Yeah, yeah, that's what we needed now, come on, let's go! Let's get this quiet today. [[Murmurs.]] Stop, don't... please, please. [[Murmurs.]] Please, a joke is a joke and something else. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Vote of point two of the Proposal, not G.P. law. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Maria do Carme Adán Villamarín, on the presentation by the Government of the Greek Government of a plan for the recovery and direct public exploitation of the hydroelectric jumps existing in Galicia at the end of its concession, as well as the information concerning the conditions established for its grant. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 68; votes in favour, 1. The voting is positive. Point two of this non-law proposal is therefore adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u224	No abstention? [[Murmurs.]] I understand we've been here a long time and this confusion is normal. We now vote for the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the request by the Galician Council to the Vigo Council... [[Murmurs.]] Watch out, because if they don't know what's going on. No, we're voting on one that's about Galicia's demand for the Vigo Council for its accession to the Galician Empty Housing Program. The amendment of the Joint Group and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left is not accepted, and the amendment of the German Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group is accepted as an addition. Right? Then we voted. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Galician people, at the initiative of Mr. Javier Dorado Soto and three other Members, on the demand for Galician Union to the Vigo Council for its accession to the Empty Housing Programme of Galician Union. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 16; abstentions, 15. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u225	We now vote for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the Central Government in connection with Article 324 of the Criminal Judgment Act. There are no amendments. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Luis Méndez Romeo and 17 other Members, on the demand that the Government of Greece should make to the Central Government in relation to article 324 of the Law on Criminal Judgment. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u226	We now vote for the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group on the demand by the Greek Government for measures to ensure the participation of the Greek workers on water outside the State in the forthcoming electoral processes. There is an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group which has not been accepted. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Quiet, please. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of D. Daniel Rodas Chapela and two other Members, on the demand by the Greek Government to the central government for measures to ensure the participation of the Greek workers embarking on water outside the state in the forthcoming electoral processes. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u227	We now vote for the People's Parliamentary Group, on the provision of the Galician citizenship package by the Galician Union of an E-Health Platform, developed by Sergas to improve communication with patients and with citizenship, as well as to increase health literacy. They do not accept the amendment of the Joint Group. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of D. Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and seven other Members, on the provision of the Greek citizenship set, by the Galician Union, of the É-Saúde Platform, developed by Sergas to improve communication with patients and with citizenship, as well as to increase health literacy. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 14; abstentions, 18. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u228	Finally, we voted for the Socialist Parliamentary Group on measures to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the production and purchase of grapes in the different designations of origin, the protection of a model of Galician wine growing and the granting of public aid to wine cellars. No amendments were tabled. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Pablo García García and two other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the production and purchase of grapes in the different denominations of origin, the protection of the model of wine growing of Galicia and the granting of public aids to wine cellars. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u229	We open the doors and move on to the sixth point of the day. Open the doors so the advisor can come in. [[Murmurs.]] Quietness, quietness, we're ending. Da Maria de los Angeles Ferreiro Vidarte and three other members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the application in Galicia of the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u230	Mrs Ferreiro has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u231	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome, Counselor. We finally have him here to talk about what he didn't want or to go to an audience or any other debate on this subject. It must be that the issue of abortion does not like the People's Party very much and seeks to remain in its hypocrisy of acting and denying otherwise. It's really a matter of concern to many women. We're talking about an interruption of pregnancy in women who want to have a child but who for different reasons, either mother's disease or malformations in the fetus, have to interrupt that pregnancy. They're not many women, but they have the same right as all other women and men to receive proper and adequate health care. There have already been various interventions, various proposals, various initiatives to address this issue. Mr. Counsellor's appearance was requested, yet at this hour after several months he did not appear. The Director General's appearance was requested, and he didn't attend either. It seems that the Director General is also interested in other women's issues but not women who suffer from this problem because they have to interrupt a desired pregnancy. I'm very sorry, but Galician women will have to take into account what the PP government has done with regard to women who have to interrupt a pregnancy. We have made different interpelerations – we say – on this issue, not just us but other parliamentary groups. We call for international protocols to be complied with in order to be able to carry out these interventions in public hospitals in Galicia. And, in any case, if it couldn't be that in all hospitals, which were done in two hospitals – one in the north and the other in the south – so that women didn't have to go to Madrid or Barcelona under certain circumstances, depending on what kind of abortion has to be done, and being able to do it in our autonomous community, which is the least that can be asked for. Well, they denied everything, absolutely everything, even denied the facts. It's only bad that in the press women who had to suffer from this situation made clear and forceful denunciation of what was going on. But all these women are there, and they explained it, if it couldn't be something that seemed to have been done – we said it or the platform – in favor of abortion, but no, here are the women who had to interrupt pregnancy, move to Madrid, etc. Not only did they not do that, but they now promised an investigation – I suppose today taking advantage of this interpellation will produce results of this research – research that, of course, we already know what it will stay in, since if what they did was go to all the Xinecology services of Galician hospitals, they would tell them everything is very good. And then what you're going to tell us today is the opposite, that is, the opposite of what women say through that experience, and the opposite of what professionals say about this drift from women to different clinics or hospitals. It's all the opposite of what really happens, what they're going to tell us here, but we're going to wait for the results. Well, it turns out they rejected all the proposals, they didn't do anything at all, and they said they were going to increase the professionals who were going to care for women. Obviously, they did: they have named certain gynecologists who are responsible for when a woman has to be intervened in a hospital, but those responsible who have appointed neither appear nor can be contacted. We have a very recent case in the Coruña hospital, where it took us just a week to talk to the head of an intervention that had to be done to a woman, a week ago! when the woman had to be at home and recovered. Well, all of this right now, in pre-election moments, everything is arranged with money, there are subsidies to fix the bathrooms, the kitchens, there are checks of all kinds. There's money for everything, except to create the right professionals or enable the right hospitals so that women can interrupt their pregnancy without having to move to Madrid, there's nothing for them. So, above what's going on in a bad situation, you have to be punished. Because the next thing that happened after the debates that took place here in this chamber was that the economic approaches that these women were given by Sergas to move to Madrid or to another site. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they have been restricted by economic approaches so that they can move. But I want you to answer the questions and answer why. Because before those approaches were no longer the same; in the Coruña there was given an amount, in Lugo there was given another and elsewhere. And I was manifesting in other interventions the tremendous inequality of women's access in all these cases of termination of pregnancy. Well, now that they tell us at least whether there's the same equality for all and why they restrict that aid to women. For this reason, the honourable Member who wishes to ask you the following questions: First, the results of the research that they undertook to do. Second, what are the approaches Sergas makes it easier for women who have to move outside the autonomous community to interrupt their management of more than fourteen weeks? What number of women interrupted their management of more than fourteen weeks in the first five months of 2015 and 2016? –Don't tell me that this data doesn't have them, I suppose they'll have them even if the ministry hasn't given them. But I suppose Galician hospitals will have a record of this data. What number of them were made in Greek hospitals and how many came out of Galicia? Why are economic conditions not the same in all provinces in cases of displacement to another community? What will the Government do to correct this inequality? Why have Sergas' economic approaches changed to women who have to move out of Galicia? Does this have anything to do with the debate you had in this chamber a few months ago? Or is it precisely because you have claimed this now that conditions are not improved and you are punished for reporting it? Do these women need a punishment from the PP? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Ferreiro. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u233	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ferreiro, very early on. The truth, Mrs Ferreiro, I didn't want to go into this debate, but it seems I have to say something, because it's clear that the pre-election period is you, when you bring a subject so sensitive and you're saying what you say, saying it's a punishment from the People's Party. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] What the Health Council is doing at all times is working to improve the quality of the health service. That's what the Health Council is doing, where, by the way, there are excellent professionals. It's also true that it's hard to come here and be able to comment on this situation when you already make value biases, saying there's an investigation, but surely the research is going to say that everything is okay. I mean, research had to say what you say and research will have to say what reality is. And I think it's about money, that it's all covered with money, I don't think it's enough. But yes, within what he said, the Health Counsellor is concerned about this and many others. And I have to tell you that while you were talking about this matter so important, however, most of your party bench was not paying attention to what you were commenting on. Look, we're... yes, because you yourself, the spokesperson of the group, was talking on the phone, that is, clearly I wasn't interested in the subject that a member of your group was commenting on. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Look, it's a very sensitive subject, so we don't think it's right that these words are spoken freely, they're hard and they're also lies. The performances carried out in our centers, in abortions occurring in the second trimester of the management, are the same in all kinds of termination of pregnancy. There is no difference in whether a spontaneous or voluntary abortion is required under articles 14 and 15 of Organic Law 2/2010. Reproductive rights cover not only the right to decide about reproduction, but also the commitment to ensure appropriate prenatal and postnatal care. In addition, one of the basic rights of women in reproductive health is the right to information and to decide freely. This means offering women alternatives based on scientific evidence so they can make informed and autonomous decisions. In these processes, as in any other process, what is ultimately about adapting existing protocols and resources to the needs of citizens, to the appropriate levels of quality and safety. We don't forget either that the psychological and emotional consequences of a natural abortion can be very painful for the woman and also for her partner when she was with her. This pain also appears after a voluntary interruption. From the health system we must ensure that the care given to these patients, both before and after the process, is the best from a care point of view. And don't hesitate to work and we'll work for this. The protocol of the process object of its interpellation essentially, in short, is the following – I say because sometimes we do not seem to know it, I prefer that it be recorded here: First, the woman is provided with information on the options collected within the law, giving her the informed consent documents, and explaining the techniques that will eventually take place. Throughout the process, the team of psychologists is at the disposal of the needs presented by the patient. Logically, each patient is different and the personal situation is very different too. When you need hospitalization, the patient enters the Xynecology Unit in an individual room with a companion. The gynecologist informs of the procedure and where appropriate the corresponding pharmacological prescription is carried out, whether this prophylactic, analgesic, interventionist or whatever else was needed during your stay or discharge. Also follow-up on the previous stage during post-abortion. The nursing staff, both nurses and technicians in the care and assistance of the plant's nursing, give women the necessary instructions and recommendations of the unit. The nurse establishes the individualized plan and care based on the needs that present the patient, both physical and psychological. It is worth noting that the process is carried out physically away from the area of dilatation and paritory for psychological reasons. In the event of a need for legrad, it shall act in accordance with the protocol established for that procedure. The evolution of the patient on the plant is monitored, also attended by nurses and optional staff. A post-abortion medical check is performed prior to discharge. Finally, a medical discharge report is issued indicating the recommendations, treatments and necessary follow-up, and in addition to the continuity of nursing care to continue in primary care with the care you need. I'll try to answer the questions you ask; some are concatenated and, of course, not accepting what might be an answer, because the following questions are already denying the above. First of all, ask yourself what are the economic approaches Sergas makes it easier for women who have to move out of the autonomous community to interrupt their management those that are more than fourteen weeks old. This aspect is regulated. The arrivals for displacements outside Galicia are now and before in accordance with the Order of 30 March 2001, which regulates the displacement benefits provided for in Article 12 of Decree 42/1998 of 15 January. He also asks about the results of the research we were going to do in the hospitals of Social Security – meaning Sergas, Social Security was previously used – about the conditions under which legal interruptions of management are carried out. As was reported in a previous inquiry – I don't know if you were present – in this same Parliament, after certain information in the media regarding the alleged lack of guarantees for the care of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy and spontaneous or deferred abortions, from February of this year to the Deputy General Directorate for Inspection, Audit and Accreditation of Sanitary Services programmed the conduct of inspection visits to the seven organisational structures for integrated management of the Galego Health Service. Its purpose was to verify three aspects: the existence of complaints by users of the centers; secondly, human and material resources existing in the centers; and thirdly, the verification of the existence and application of the care protocols appropriate to the previous processes. The inspection team that conducted the inspection visits was made up of two medical inspectors. From the actions carried out in the seven Integrated Management departments, in short, they conclude: one, there is no evidence of the existence of claims made by users; two, the human and material resources devoted to the care of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, spontaneous or deferred abortions meet established standards; and three, the existing protocols established for voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, spontaneous or deferred abortions are applied. He also asks about the number of women who interrupt their management of more than fourteen weeks in the first five months of 2015 and 2016, and how many of them have done so in Greek hospitals and how many have been derived outside Galicia. With regard to the first one, in Galicia in the first five months of the year 2015, some 89 women managing more than fourteen weeks interrupted their pregnancy, of which five were more than twenty-two weeks, forty were performed in the autonomous community and forty-nine were out. It must be noted that these data are provisional, they are not yet official figures, since it must be taken into account, among other things, that the data of VE performed outside Galicia depend on the closure of other autonomous communities and the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, which has not yet published them. From 2016 we can answer that five more than twenty-two-week EVIs were performed, all out of the community. Data between fourteen and twenty-two weeks is not yet available. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of Sergas is to ensure the quality of care in the provision of health services, all services, with the means and scope. In the case of voluntary termination of pregnancy, Sergas establishes the care circuits that guarantee compliance with Law 2/2010, mental and reproductive health and voluntary termination of pregnancy. I want to finish this first intervention by stressing that there is a clear fact that we always have in mind in this type of intervention: the main objective of all the healthcare patients who accompany patients who have to go through this situation is their comfort and well-being both physically and emotionally. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u234	Thank you, Counselor. Replica roll, Mrs. Ferreiro. You can also do it from there, if you like.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u235	Thank you, President. Actually, Counselor, it seems I didn't make a big mistake when I said I already knew some answer in advance. How are there going to be complaints in the hospitals of women who are in a situation that only they want to solve the problem of interrupting their pregnancy, and what are they going to want to report and file complaints to an institution they depend on in order to continue being cared for? Can you ask those women or try to file a complaint? They have enough to fix it and they have enough to go to the psychological consultation because of the consequences of that intervention that they had in many hospitals! And that's what I'm telling you because I'm a professional family planning center where we take care of all these women and we have data on the negative psychological consequences of that attention. They said it themselves and they keep saying it. But this counselor not only answers the questions, but also asks him to fill up the ills. I think, Counselor, at this point I should have learned that here what you see is to answer questions, not to ask questions yourself. So they don't respond to Sergas' economic approaches to women. You speak of a decree, you can speak of forty. That law decree will tell you what it says, and I'll tell you how these issues are established. That decree to which they are now approaching changes with regard to what they were doing before the debates. Before the debates were presented in this chamber, a woman who went to Madrid or elsewhere – depending on the distance – the approaches given to her were EUR 0.36 per kilometer. That was what women were getting, going and coming, and their couple too; without need of anything else. That's what if you were giving them in the Coruña Sanitary Area, managed by me and good ink. If they traveled by train, they were paid EUR 426.40 for her and her companion. Right now, and from the debates that have been held here, they pay the women EUR 0.12 per kilometer, Counsellor, from home to clinic, 154 on and back. If they go by train, the cost of the ticket for her, and if anyone wants to go with her, which is normal, the doctor has to make a report and say that he needs accompaniment. Another one is passing so far on the plane. At the first they were given the EUR 426.40 for her and her companion, either by train or by plane. Why this difference? The decree is the same, as you said. The decree is already of several years, so there had to be no difference. So he's still punishing women and taking away the help they need. The second issue. I'm not telling lies, no lies, nor is it the same a deferred abortion, nor is it the same a spontaneous abortion, nor is it the same an abortion of more than fourteen weeks. Don't confuse things. There's not the same attention, because women have already said it very clearly: let them, let them interrupt their pregnancy, but there they are in the room or wherever they are without attention. The psychologist doesn't go through the room, absolutely no one saw the psychologist or the lining, Counselor. That's absolutely a lie. There is no longer any question left to answer: What will the Government do to correct this inequality? Will you give us a chance to make these two reference centers in the north and in the south to avoid the cost of the displacement to Madrid of all these women? You guys don't realize that if you get these hospitals, that I think hospitals in Galicia have enough capacity and enough staff to do them here, that could prevent the displacement of many women, that maybe they never left their home and have to go to Madrid, somewhere outside, where taking the trip, what are diets, what are meals and what are taxis is about 400 euros, from which you pay them 154 euros? Do you think that's what it's like to take care of women? If you think so, Counselor, the women of Galicia when the elections arrive know what they have to vote for. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Ferreiro. Close round, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u237	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Ferreiro, the truth is that it seems to me that his intervention ended the way he had begun: by asking for the vote for the next autonomous elections, when even the president did not set a date for them. But it seems to me that, frankly, it seems to me that I can use something so sensitive, something so important in the health of many women as a pre-electoral element, saying exactly, "You know what to vote for the Greek women." That's what you say. And I'm also concerned that you boast about the information you have, so you say about your professional situation. I understand, you said that. I'm worried too, I'm worried. [[Murmurs.]] Look, the problem is that you belong to a party that ruled in Galicia, that didn't change the order of transfers, and you probably didn't read the order exactly either. Sorry, I don't think you've read it. He does not read Article 15, and Article 15 in the final part says what is excluded and says one thing, he says, "Planning, organization and supervision, as well as the expenses caused by the described transfers" – where exactly these we are talking about – "can be assumed by the Galician Health Service, whenever circumstances agree that so advise and there is budgetary credit available." I mean, it's every agency that decides in these cases what's appropriate, if you have to go together, if you don't have to go together; you see case by case and analyze case by case. So sadly, you say you work in the healthcare system, I think the first thing you had is to be informed, to know exactly what's in each of these cases, and not to say meaningless news. And I come here to answer, say exactly what we're doing and what we're going to do for a long time, but I don't come to what I'm called "knock," huh, like you said to start with. And I come to answer every moment and give you the information we have, and, of course, clearly say that women in Galicia are with a good health service, fulfilling every protocol that is fixed; not by a whim of a counselor, but by teams of professionals who know this – I think – more than me, surely, but I think more than you. In Galicia, up to twenty-two weeks of gestation, the EVEs are carried out in the EOXI of the Coruña, Vigo, Santiago, Lugo and Pontevedra. From twenty-two weeks they are sent to other centers: in Madrid – as you said – or in Barcelona. Why? Because, as in other reference centers, we want them to be the highest quality centers that treat our patients. And when the number isn't enough, professionals need enough numbers to treat them as best they can. This is their case, and we do it because we believe that we improve the quality of service, in this particular case, to these patients. The attention to women who engage in voluntary pregnancy interruptions at public health centres in Galicia is duly protocoled. The management of these patients involves optional specialists in Obstetrics and Xinecology, nursing staff, clinic assistants and psychologists. In the case of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, women first of all attend family counselling centres, where they sign a consent informing on this procedure, and are logically informed on time. Thus, patients are informed by a doctor and urged in psychological aspects that may be linked to the interruption of the management. Once in the hospital, both in the case of strokes and spontaneous abortions, when they arrive at the plant, they receive all the instructions, necessary recommendations from the nurse. The process is carried out away from the area of obstetrics, dilation and parity – as I said – for psychological reasons, not for punishment. And they enter an individual room, accompanied by a relative or close relative who at all times desires it. It should also be noted that the use of new drugs in the process of cervical dilation has significantly shortened – as we stated earlier – the process of fetal expulsion. The most commonly used analgesia in these cases is the conventional, with opiates or derivatives thereof, with good results, if it is also considered epidural analgesia where necessary. Finally, in these cases, as in the rest of the care processes, we will continue to work according to the protocols and scientific evidence, with rigor, effectiveness, security and equity, always thinking about the best alternative for our patients and, of course, not asking for the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u238	Thank you, Counselor. Counselor, I did not perceive in Mrs. Ferreiro's expression that she wanted to insult you directly, I think it was a colloquial expression, that's what I perceived. I think so, Mrs Ferreiro. All right? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, thank you very much. Interpellation of G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the closing of beds in Sergas hospitals during the summer months
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u239	Mrs Prado has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u240	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Counselor. A month ago, I was asking you in this same parliament about aspects of public health in this country, in particular about health in real emergency conditions, with shot waiting lists, as you made the decision not to have all the resources operational and, quite the contrary, if you were allowed the luxury of closing devices, beds, operating and so on for four months in summer. You said at that time that we always asked the same question, and I hope that today you will be able to answer something different, be able to answer something different and at least answer, give the information you are asked. And before you get to the point in particular, you're going to allow me to be so systematic, and the truth so hard to endure the continued speech, that today the President of the Government once again dared to verbalize in this chamber, saying textually that health is better than when he arrived at the government in 2009. It has been dared to say that there are more rights, more benefits, more infrastructures, less waiting lists, more vaccines, more vaccination calendar, that is, all and every one of the issues that, by active and passive means, were the subject of complaints, mobilization, systematic complaints of professionals, patients, mothers and parents in the case of vaccines, even of municipalities that systematically demand the promised and unbuilt infrastructure. And also said the president, Nuñez Feijóo, that the balance admits opinions. I'm not going to think about it, Counselor, I'm going to give you a series of data, because, at least, with those enormous aids, most of the time the media don't pick up the issues that we say here, at least they're left here in the Minutes of this Parliament. And look, really, the balance of that period 2009-2016, back to the People's Party Government, is a reduction in public health budget by more than 18%. That's data. We need to take the 2009 budget, take the 2016 budget, or decline by more than 18%, from which primary care takes the palm; in primary care, the budget has been reduced by over 22%. Personal cuts. They reduced their share of staff by more than 34%, and the budget for staff in Galicia is more than 24% below the average of the state. Those figures that he always likes to tell us: here we are, we are the champions of the world. I suppose from morning to morning, and when this intervention is over, we'll have become champions of something else, the surprising thing is that it's not like that. But the reality is that one and a half and a half percent of the budget for staff is twenty-four percent under the average state. Reduction of more than 2,000 professionals, reduction of more than 2,000 professionals 2009-2015, Counsellor. Bed cuts. In this period they disappeared from the public health system of Galicia more than 600 beds. Yes, show me that you don't, Counselor. Those beds that are closed in the summer and then, when September comes, they don't open again. It's true that you play with advantage, because the BNG, the professionals, the unions, we have to get the data by asking one at a time, because you have zero transparency, zero transparency. There's no way there's clear, true, transparent data about which devices are, but professionals know, they're there, they're working and they know that beds were operational for a year and which they're no longer standing, because 600 beds less. They suspended the Primary Care Improvement Plan. You, the MPs of the People's Party, the vocabularies, are told that in primary care you have the gateway to public health, but then all they do is reduce your personal, because of these 2,000 peaks of professionals who have eliminated from public health, a lot more than a thousand were exactly in primary care; in that very important entry door it was where they cut most. Privatization of Galicia's central laboratory, privatization of high technology through that figure of the tech partner. That figure that allows companies to decide how, when, in what way and what evidence they do, what appliances they buy, Counselor. They privatized research, outsourced and privatized resources from strategic services for Sergas, such as the ambulance service. Moreover, they were handed over to venture capital companies, to companies outside Galicia, to companies directly linked to the People's Party, to investment funds, to electronic clinical history, to electronic platform, to pre-quota, to supply and logistics services; they were dismantling all maintenance, a part was privatized, and, essentially, also by the People's Party, but they followed, swiftly, on that line. The issue of privatizing the energy, water and other supplies of the Salnés Hospital, health centers, Vigo Hospital, was invented. I mean, they put public health in budgets for years to be mortgaged so that, theoretically, that deficit, of what I suppose you'll come here later to assume that you're meeting the deficit, making traps, too, on the other hand. Well, also, the hospital catering service, radiology, sterilization, would you like to...? The mobile centers, those buses, those trucks, which I would also like you to tell me where they went. I asked the MP of the People's Party tomorrow and he didn't answer me. Home telehealth... well, I can go on. That's data. That's more rights, more benefits, more infrastructure. If you want, I'll tell you about the waiting lists, they've increased by 25%. I know Núñez Feijóo, in the morning, said here he was going to pull out the last data from the waiting lists before the elections, and it turns out he's going to be the best in the world, the best since the record, what a coincidence! What a coincidence, isn't it? What a coincidence they were, just before you close the register, you enthusiastically call everyone to tell you: you have a gap to operate in this private center, in this private one. And what happens when people say no? So they stay in those drawers and get out of the waiting lists to make them turn numbers and be able to introduce themselves in a press round saying that the waiting lists are already better. Well, in this context, Counsellor, you don't get enough of this dismantling, this privatization, all of this data – which could be further disaggregated, but I just told you the most important – but, in addition, you allow the luxury of not having a very important part of the public health device to operate for four months. It's allowed the luxury of closing, again, around a thousand beds, and I say around again, because they have no courage to give the real data or to publish them, about a thousand beds, with which that means less personal hired, which means increasing the waiting lists, which means more difficult access to healthcare, which means that there is no better public health, but quite the contrary. Then I ask you the same questions again, Mr. Counselor, and I hope you answer. The first thing I do to you is... in this context, they also took away 5 million euros from the manga for a plan to reduce waiting lists. So to me – as we have no information, how they refuse to give that information – I would like you to explain to me how they are going to do, when they're going to do that between self-concertation and concerted health, please tell me how much on each side, how they're going to operate that self-concertation, who's going to decide, what specialties they're going to decide on, when they're going to start these peonadas – self-concertation, peonadas are, Mr. Counsellor – those peonadas who decide who does them and how. And I keep asking you how many people come from... All these questions you have here in writing, Counselor, and I hope that anyone who can answer me, who can answer me, who doesn't go through the hills of Úbeda and who answers me how many professionals, broken down by categories, will hire Sergas to cover staff vacations.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u241	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u242	At this point, we still don't know about that data, if it's going to continue to drift into private patients as long as it's closed these thousand beds, closed to surgical ones, it's going to continue to result in what amounts? We still don't know the data, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u243	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u244	It's over, Mr. President. The impact of closing beds, what savings will it mean? For all these questions which you have here in writing and which I would like – I would like – that this will be the last plenary where I will be able to ask you what is the state of public health in this country – that it would be good – that it is your last reply also to this honourable Member – that I should have done not a demagogy exercise, but please data. Data!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Prado, the truth is that today is the day of repetition, from the morning that we were here, until now, and I think that afterwards, we will continue to repeat all the questions for a few months, exactly. You told me to answer something different, but to answer something different, you have to ask me something different, if not, logically, I have to tell you the reality, and reality is the same, exactly the same. [[Applause]] You're also saying that the media don't put the health problem down because they have help. Call my attention to that comment. And I want to tell you... last time, you say. I'm willing to repeat it whenever you want. The topic of privatization is a slogan that is very good for a banner, to go to a demonstration, but really, when you rule, you use indirect management system exactly the same as we use. In health care the health system is public for statutory officials, all trained with us and working with us. And the services that are not health care do other companies, with excellent workers, as happens in Pontevedra Town Hall, which you know very well. I think there's a mayor who's been working for a long time, but he's managed indirectly – if you want privatized – services from the municipality. And you when you were part of the two-party government I didn't see any change behind what you call privatization. So these are electoral slogans; we know that today is an election day, pre-election day, as you mean, but I have to keep saying the same things, and I truly believe that it is true, that I have to say that the health system – as the president said – is much better now that seven years ago, when it entered the government, clearly. And the more you travel, you can say with more reason that the Greek health system is good or very good. And I always put an example, which I think is paradigmatic, and I'm not talking about the American system, that there are some in this country – the left-wing agent – that when Obama comes, he gets him standing for fifteen minutes and does not protest, on the contrary, he becomes selfies, and yet the American health system is much worse, much worse, than ours. And yet the German system, which has a good health system, all elderly German patients, when they're in, what they do is they get ten euros for every day of their income. That in Spain, of course, we don't have it, and in Galicia we don't have it. What I want to tell you, because your question is about beds, which – as I say – I think is a already decimonic topic. We're currently talking about other things, we're talking about services, activity, service to the citizen, it's something that's not right at all. We do our duty to efficiently manage the public funds that the citizenship of Galicia makes available to us. Otherwise, as it seems to be intended, it would be a difficultly justifiable overthrow. As it shows, in 2015 more than 86% of the total beds available in public hospital centers were operational and with an occupancy rate of 75%. I mean, 1 out of every 4 operational beds has been busy. In 2016, the forecast is to keep 87% of the beds operational, i.e., they would be inoperative 13%. Once again I have to insist on something that has often been heard, both in this House and in Commission 5a: the decision on the scope of this programming is taken into account in view of the primary responsibility of the Greek public health to ensure, at all times, the safety and quality of patients. In addition to being needed for assistance reasons, unused beds can be activated at any time. As a matter of fact, this programming allows us to efficiently manage professional holidays. Summer, as in other sectors, is the period most demanded by staff for their vacations, and we respect that right. This, of course, conditions the need to replace the workers. This substitution is not possible in certain optional staff specialties, which implies that the assistance equipment needed to perform certain functions would be incomplete. In any case, the Galego Health Service performs this performance by following, as it cannot be otherwise, its policy of improving efficiency in the management and rational use of our physical and human resources, maintaining all the clinical activity that is possible and, fundamentally, ensuring attention in those processes that do not allow delay. Planning is based on the restructuring of hospital units so that patients have the resources they need and professionals can work more rationally and comfortably. In the summer season, usually hospital occupancy rates decrease, and this happens because it's also the season of the year in which there is a higher reduction in certain pathologies, such as respiratory diseases, responsible for this year for a high number of hospital incomes, that's a fact. And it's also common for you to take advantage of this time, where there are fewer people, to do better interventions and maintenance works in the centers, in the areas that need it. On the other hand, I want to remind you, Your Honor, once again, that the bed resource is not what determines the degree of efficiency of the system. In recent years we have increased activity in a very significant way in areas such as day hospitals, home hospitalization or outpatient surgery. In fact, outpatient surgery already exists in many hospitals that are larger in numbers than incoming surgery. These benefits are greatly valued by citizenship and allow us to care for more patients without using the bed resource; at the same time, the trend in length of stays is the decrease. In addition, it should be stressed that this reduction also occurs in the European Union as a whole in higher figures than in Spain. It can be explained by the decrease – as we said – of the needs of hospitalization, the consequence of technological progress and the growth of activity without internalization, especially – as the outpatient surgery said. The figures are there, overall the decrease in the number of beds in the territory of the European Union in the last decade is 9%, in Spain in the same period decreases by 5% and in Galicia is around 3.8%. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, in the coming years we have seen an unfavourable process of outpatient care, of intensive use of technologies for remote follow-up of patients. In fact, you said that there has been no change in recent years, in particular: home hospitalization, something that citizenship demands from us because it is effective, keeps the patient at home, with his family and with treatment. And a follow-up of specialists grew up in two units they didn't have, which were going to be Worm and Monforte of Lemos; exactly in two new units we grew not only in more resources, but in a new service and of course of high efficiency. On the other hand, and as far as staff management is concerned, I have to tell you that all of these substitutions are necessary to ensure the same quality of health care that is being dispensed throughout the rest of the year. The procedure is known, in order to ensure the continuous and permanent functioning of its institutions, Sergas provides coverage of the needs of the population through the formalization of temporary appointments, in order to address the absences of its staff of office, which, as urgent or programmed – as occurs in vacations – are produced in the various services and units in which they require coverage. It is a clear and transparent process, formalised appointments for temporary staff are made in accordance with the rules governing temporary selection in our body, approved by the sectoral negotiating bureau unanimously by all trade union organisations and published in the Official Journal of Galicia of 9 May 2011. Such regulations articulate the management procedure, calling on the basis of the existence of an ordinary list and several special pull lists and special area, provided for in these latter ones to provide coverage to urgent and unscheduled calls of not more than four days. The pull list is for the coverage of needs in areas of special sensitivity and high qualification, from the point of view of care – such as surgical, critical, hospital emergency or transplant –, lasting not more than 60 days, special area list. As the magnitude of this question shows, I have to point out that in 2015, in June, the percentage of vacation templates was 4.8 in June, in July of 23.6, in August, almost 29.9%, and in September 11.1. Finally, the reorganisation of specialisation resources has the slightest impact on the quality of health care. And I want, in any case, to thank from here for the work of most professionals who always – both in good times and when difficulties arise – are able to give their best to themselves by patients and organization.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u247	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u248	Well, you persist in that question that reality doesn't spoil your headline, Counselor. Because you can repeat and repeat Nuñez Feijóo every time you want this is the best health in the world, but then you don't feel sorry for reality, or much less. Look, I'd like you to tell me where that country is and that public health you come here to talk about it, because I'd like you to tell me where it is left to go to see it, because what we see is that it doesn't look at anything that you describe here. And, look, if that health is so good, how is it possible that the People's Valedor Report, which came here yesterday to expose, let public health stay in such a bad place, your councillor, Mr. Almuinho? I suppose you, after seeing the Valator's Report – which I suppose has brought it to you – are a valet which is not likely, nor much less likely, to try to increase the level of disgust among the Greeks and the Greeks with regard to public health, because it is your valet, that is, the valet placed by the People's Party, with which, of course, it is not likely to make reports in any other direction if you could avoid it. So, of course, when he says that the Health Council, first of all, is the most obstructive, the one that most disturbs the work of the People's Valuer, when that report says that he had to repeat to him on 131 occasions that he had transferred to the information he was asking for, is that you do the same thing as when he comes here to this Parliament, who does not provide information, does not give the data or when they are asked in writing or when we demand it from this court. I asked you for specific questions: how many patients?, how many professionals? And you still don't give that information. Then, of course, I have to ask him questions again, because I have the obligation of the people who voted me to be here for me to follow up on his government performance, I'm here for that. And you have the obligation to answer me, because I'm here mediating with the citizens, and you should have the obligation to answer yourself, and the rest, and answer in writing as much as you ask; but they don't do one thing or the other, and they don't do it with the valet either. 131 repeated petitions, to the point of hostilely declaring counsellor, Counsellor, to the point of declaring it hostile... the report of the Valedor, whenever you wish, the report of the Valedor, I insist... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Do you know what the report says, too, Mr. Almuinho? For it is necessary that the waiting lists be absolutely transparent, that is, it is necessary; that means I am not, Counselor, that I am not! It means they have to be agile, so that the citizen knows at every moment that he lands, as long as he waits, what his situation is. That is your duty, as an adviser, to make such things so. You come here is you don't give the information, you come here and you describe a world that doesn't exist and you still don't answer the questions I asked you. I asked him a month ago: how is that plan going to be put in place to decrease waiting lists with 5 million euros, with fewer beds, less personnel, closed devices and so on? You didn't answer, today you don't answer again. What we know is that self-concerting – which people are, I insist – will mean that public money, instead of serving to structurally improve public health and that vicious circle of fewer resources and less personal means more waiting lists, instead of investing that money in structural improvements, you will deliver them directly to private health; instead of capitalizing public health, they will return them to private health. Or they're going to do those peonadas in a scurantist way, as they always do, because today neither in the trade union organizations nor, of course, here in this Parliament, we know how they do that self-concertization, who decides what professionals are called, what the price they charge. Do the professionals charge the same price in a hospital as in another hospital, from one service to another, do they charge the same price, Counselor? Why don't you want to inform us about all that data?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u249	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u250	... for reducing waiting lists? Of course, BNG would like to know. I don't have any more time, but, of course, I'm going to set just one example for you at Vigo's Men's Hospital, Counsellor, where your health policy – in the whole health area, but I don't have time – closes 180 beds of 343. 180 beds, whole plants of internal medicine, surgery, whole plants of breast unit, urology, rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u251	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u252	That is, in this context, by closing all these devices, dismantling public health, it turns out they come with a plan that then they don't want to explain to us 5 million euros to lower the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u254	And you're trying to deceive the Greeks and the Greeks, deceive the Members and Members who are here...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u255	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u256	...to deceive the People's Valedor...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Look at the watch, Mrs. Prado, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u258	...and describe us – finished, Mr. President – a...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u259	Look at the clock, please!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u260	Look at the watch, Mrs. Prado, please! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] Miss Prado, please! [[Mrs. Prado Cores speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] You don't have a word, Mrs. Prado. One minute and 20 more. That's how we're going. Shut up, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u261	Mr. President, I thought it was the last time he was going to intervene, so that's why it's necessary. I had, in fact, a complete argument, but I'm almost going to make an attempt to answer things that weren't on the question, but you seem to need to know. The first thing that comes to my attention is that you in the first intervention, and now in the second intervention, ends with two – I believe – basic pillars that we have in the Galician organization, which are the media – of which you said that for the help I received that they did not describe the reality – and now the People's Value. That is, the valet of the people – which you think is not fair – makes a report that, in your opinion, goes against power, that is, I don't understand anything; on the one hand, it should be impartial, on the other hand, against whom you have appointed it. Look, read the report in full, I don't think you've read it conveniently from the beginning; put dates to those words that appear there, to those writings, because you don't say it. It says precisely that the Health Council is the most collaborative with all administrations, speaking of councils, deputies, of all. The Health Council is one of the most cooperating with the Valador. We deeply respect the institutions of Galicia and, of course, we will always cooperate with them. The transparency of the waiting lists? Always with the same. Transparency is such that they have a decree and it says how they have to be registered, how patients should be included at all times. And for the week, it's become public, as it has been for many years, even when you were ruling, you were doing it too. And you'll see -- as the president said this morning -- that's going to be the best data since there's records; that's right, and that's because we have a great health system. And you said, what do I have to do to see that beautiful world? Well, look, you travel to Europe or to the United States, and then you go back and you go back to a health center in Pontevedra, and you'll see how beautiful Greek health is. We can talk, I say, about a lot of things, but all we're working on is precisely to improve the health service. And I was talking about the transparency of waiting lists that patients need to know. We will approve – we are in process with the corresponding reports – the only part that remains, because we have freedom of choice of head doctor, nurse, hospital, maximum times. It'll show up in a very short time, so we'll be the first to know about it in Spain, and we'll know at all times how long we're gonna be in the healthcare system until we solve the problem. That's very important to me. Look, to tell you that it's a summer campaign pre-election theme, I'm going to read to you an article that was in the press today -- nothing else -- doesn't think I'm going to take a long time -- and it caught my attention thinking it was Galicia, but it wasn't Galicia. And he was talking about closed beds, because now there's a campaign about closed beds. I went into a hospital and I never saw a closed bed, what I saw was used – what was needed, by the way – at the Vigo Main Hospital – which is a big hospital and is part of Vigo Hospital Complex – the beds that tell you they're closed, that they'd almost all be, but it's not; of course, it's a percentage according to activity. Because right now it's the Galician hospital that does most surgery, basically outpatients, but that's what it does most. And that means there are great professionals with very good skills. I read to you, in the face of this complaint, closed beds, 2,600 beds tell you that there is in Andalusia closed, and the Andaluz Health Service says: "He accused the union yesterday – outside – of launching an alarm campaign with false data, unknown interests, in a catastrophic speech – I don't say – to denounce the closure of beds in hospitals in summer. In another communiqué, the Andalusian Health System replied, to the corresponding union, that it keeps all its beds available to the population, so it cannot talk about beds, close beds, and ensures that any patient who needs hospital income has guaranteed it." In Galicia, because we have been among the few communities that meet the deficit, we have what we call the surplus of responsibility, and we will use it throughout this year to improve the conditions and the Greek health service, so that it will be even better. The first result will be next week, when you see the waiting lists that are perfectly transparent with the data, with the best data we have in our autonomy since there's a record in that direction. To say, too, that what you say about the patient register, those who have not accepted concerted centers, are registered, are not in any drawer, and acts and operates according to the corresponding criteria of each hospital. But, as I say to you honestly, Mrs Prado, I don't think you have any arguments, he uses arguments a few months ago to get them back and have something to say; but I sincerely tell you that the Greek health system is of the best systems we have, of course, at European level, without any doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u262	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u263	This data is data we're talking about that health is valued by citizens, data also collected this morning by the president, where it's the public service, of course, most valued, and that our objectives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u264	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u265	...have succeeded... Sorry, sorry. I'm done, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u266	It's been a minute, it's just that the clock is wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u267	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Laughter]] The care reorganisation is constantly changed in each agency, in each Sergas health centre, to adapt to its care needs and priorities. But what has to be clear is that no patient in Galicia, neither in summer nor at any time of the year, will be left unattended...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u268	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u269	...without your bed and your place in the hospital of the day to be able to treat the disease you suffer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u270	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u271	Thank you very much and I'm sorry, President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u272	Thank you. Interpellation of G.P. Together, at the initiative of Da Mónica Fernández Rodríguez and Da María Consuelo Martínez García, on the policy of the Italian Government on roads.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u273	Mrs Fernández has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u274	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, what's going to be my first and last interpellation, or rather said mini-interpellation, because we're not -- I don't think, I understand -- the opportunity to make the motion, to make it substantial, I wanted to talk about the government's road policy. Junta has recently published in the DOG, dated June 20, the regulation that develops the Galician Road Law, adapted to our territory, to manage its autonomous road network. In this document, some aspects of the law which was passed in July 2013 are clarified, and are established, where the whole of the financing of self-proprietary roads is also envisaged. The new regulation enshrines the free use of the channels of the Union, unless a fee is established for its use. State legislation opens the door to the exceptional possibility of imposing fees for use, and the European Commission recommends that legal texts be generic enough not to close the door to new formulas. In this case, they are talking about financing the infrastructure itself, because the public budgets which are devoted to maintaining the roads themselves are becoming more and more widespread. The regulation develops the capacity of the Government of Greece to eliminate or reduce fees with limitations imposed by the Grants Act, and which obliges automatic compensation to the concessionadjustmentary, since the Administration is indirectly responsible for the financial balance of these businesses, it says. This possibility was not covered by law, and in the traditos of the roads where a fee or fee is charged for its use, the Administration may establish compensatory measures or procedures. Also cancel the user's direct payment, which means an improvement in the development of the area or region in most cases where there are very high rates. And, well, we bring this plenary today, when we are finishing the second legislate of the Feijóo era – and I do not want to stop bringing it here, to the full itself – which is the highway policy of the Galician Union. And we're talking – always announced with a lot of autobombs, when we talk about the autonomical roads, the AG-55, between The Coruña and Carballo, or the AG-57, of Val Minor –, we talk about the reductions that have been made in recent times, even the discounts, even if we score the exact amount. They always boast that they are the cheapest in the state, it seems I will forget – and I will not tire of repeating it – that Galicia is the country that has the lowest standard of living, and we talk about 12% wages for the state. These are INE data, which has been published recently at the end of June. Speaking of the highway that goes from Coruña to Carballo, it was a toll that was not included at first, which began in the year of its inauguration, and which means a brake for metropolitan development and the economic area of Coruña, the Coast of Death. In recent times, it is true that different local governments have been manifested about the abolition of tariff rates. Even the Town Hall of Coruña itself recently submitted to urge the Union to eliminate the burden, and even the Crown Deputy did the same. There was even a mayor of the People's Party who, at this time, also pointed to the issue of claiming the cancellation of the rate itself. Also comment that in recent times – although it is not a motorway – the highway of the Coast of Death has just been opened, which from 45 kilometres in the beginning, we have moved to 27 years after eight years. Also when we talk, for example, about the AP-53 motorway, which has, as it were, quite irregular traffic, especially, on the subject of the beach, which is one of the highest in the state. And we're talking, above all, when the number of users and users falls into bites on the 37th kilometer, after passing the toll of Silleda, before the industrial polygon of Lalin, and then if it's increased towards Ourense. When we talked about a highway that, well, came to vertebrate what was going to be the center or heart of Galicia. And, of course, on the dates we are, and after the news we heard yesterday, I will not fail to comment on the interest of an investment fund to acquire what is the concession of AP-9, from Globalvia, which we are talking about foreign investment funds, the USS, OPrust and PGGM, which have presented a letter of interest, and now we are talking about economic figures between 1 billion and it can even reach 1,500 million. Although he also owes himself, 3,000 million, which is refinanced. And we're talking about a foreign entity that puts its eyes on a road that is still, it seems, a gold mine, we're also talking in recent times about a small rebound in traffic, and it also seems that it's very attractive for the years that this concession lasts – we still have 34 years – and for the evolution of inflation itself. We're talking about a share that would be purchased from Abanca, which has a 23.8, Sacyr a 15.5 and Liberbank. On the other hand, we're talking about the American Corsair, where it's even included Kutxabank. Then we have that little treble. Yes, it is true that Mr. Feijóo was not filled, since 2013, that it was if he asked for the transfer, but today we still have nothing. On 15 March, the German Parliament itself approved the ruling of the Territorial Ordering Commission to demand the transfer of the title of the competence of AP-9 from the State to the Union, which was referred to the Congress of Deputies and Members. This, of course, will take some time, we speak of two or three years. Also, about the highway, I think it's practically all talked about, but if I keep remembering that it's still a robbery, I think it's more than amortized, and the part doesn't offer the services for which to pay, that's quite important. And unfortunately – because there was never a bet for territorial vertebration, nor a concern for communication in the Greek territory, either inside or outside – it remains the most important channel of communication on our land, and it seems that Fomento does not want to leave it, because it seems to be an international channel of communication. That's one of the excuses, but I think it's still a lack of political interest on the part of the Government of the Union. Well, we're not talking about what the undercover peas buses are, which even the Junta, who had to pay, had to make an injection to them; now they're going back over traffic, so the Junta was forced, when she had a descent to, in a way, compensate them. So, for all of this, the question of what purposes of action does the Italian Executive have in relation to the policy of tolling on the highways of Greece, and whether the duty of autonomous competition is to be eliminated in the highways I mentioned. And from future highways, what schedule would there be if yes?, what will they do with the transfer of AP-9? I think it's very important that the board take control of this highway. And if they guarantee equality of conditions and communications on the Welsh roads to the entire population, what is the alternative to funding? If you don't charge a fee and if, really, the German Government is going to bet on public transport by road and intermodal. Okay, so far nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u275	You now have the word of Mrs. Infrastructure and Living Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u276	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As you said, last June 20 was published in the Official Journal of Galicia, the new general road regulation in Galicia, which provides the community, which provides Galicia, with a new comprehensive regulatory framework for road infrastructure. It is a regulation that gives rise to the need for us to have a new policy framework in order to be able to pay more attention to the area of public management, such as roads, because roads have, directly, a great deal of importance in the quality of life of our neighbours, but also in Galicia's economic and social development. For that reason, along with the Road Law, they provide Galicia with a solid regulatory body adapted to the Greek reality, to offer a better management of our road network, of the title of the Galician Union, autonomous ownership and also of the local authorities. A regulation that strengthens the legal security of our citizens by establishing objective criteria, as well as regulated procedures, promoting transparency. It also advances in greater coordination between different administrations, the different ones that have road ownership, and also in a more consistent management of the territorial reality of Galicia. A road regulation that focuses on three objectives: first, to meet the uniqueities of Galicia. You know the dispersion of population nuclei, the existence of rural nuclei, the large kilometres that we have through and also the density of road networks that we have in Galicia. The second goal is to have a tool that ensures proper management of the public domain. And thirdly, to safeguard the interests of citizenship in its relations with administrations, detailed regulation, detailed procedures, and also promoting transparency, greater transparency to ensure and safeguard the interests of citizenship. And an important gesture, Mrs Fernández: this is the first time Galicia has its own road regulations, the first own road regulations in Galicia. Therefore, we have ceased to apply the State Regulation, which does not meet the peculiarities of our autonomous community, because taking into account the peculiarities of the Greek territory will soon allow us to make better management, better management of the road network, appropriate to the needs of our neighbours, appropriate to the needs of the Greeks and the Greeks. I'll give you an example: the state road regulations did not take into account the existence of the rural nuclei, our own, very important in Galicia. But this general road regulations in Galicia also raise questions of great interest, of course, that is the possibility of lowering or eliminating the fees that users are bullying for the use of roads. Chapter II of Title III is thus clear "Financing actions carried out in road matters": in general, the routes of the Galician Union will be free of charge for the user. Article 75.2, we can read it all, says that the regulation reinforces the usual practice of this government, of the Galician Union, as well as the road fares. It explicitly collects measures or procedures to reduce or eliminate fees. Your Honor, numbers don't cheat, they don't fool anyone, and this government has made unprecedented progress in full economic recession in times of many difficulties. At the end of this legislation we will have increased the high-performance pathways by 66%. More than 200 new kilometres of high-performance pathways, and not a single mile with toll, the 200 miles of toll-free. I can certainly give you more data, because this government was the first, and the only, of course, to implement tax bonuses to users. Since 2009, we have saved more than 246 million euros by means of these tariff bonus policies, and we will continue to bet on making free-of-charge buses. The highway of the Coast of Death, this same month in service and, of course, free of charge; the highway of Morrazo, free of charge, are running third one and third two, and we will also push this same year third 3. Two highways run by different recruitment mechanisms; you know one is concessionary, another budgetary route. But that they are possible because of the determination of this government and, of course, because of the ability of the officials, which I want to take advantage of to thank him for all his work. And everything in spite of the poles some political groups put on wheels. [[Applause]] Our bet is the execution of these high-performance routes, these new highways, by budget. It's the model that we bet on for the future and that's why we bet on the German Government. The truth is, the concessional system has since been able to anticipate the execution of many road infrastructures, but our bet is to build duty-free infrastructures and do what we can afford. Because we consider that the concessional model is exhausted and the biggest guarantee to make highways and highways and high-performance routes is the budgetary route. As for the highways The Coruña-Carballo, AG-55, and Puxeiros-Val Minor, AG-57, as you said, was built by concession and payment to the user. But today thanks to the bonuses of this government, of course it has the lowest rates in Spain. I don't know if it bothers you, but it's something that's obvious, that's true and that we have to say, because this government was the first and only to implement bonuses in 2010. They saved users, the Greeks and the Greeks, who used these two 2.5 million-euro motorways and left it armored until 2019, so that they would continue to enjoy price bonuses; until 2019 they would invest 2.4 million euros more so they could enjoy these bonuses. In addition to these bonuses, the tariffs have been frozen for the last three years, especially in 2017, and in some of the truces have fallen. So the first government that was this in freezing and even lowering the rates of the autonomic highways of AG-55 and AG-57. As for AP-9, you know this is state-owned, and right now it is up to the Ministry of Development to manage it, the viability of its rescue. In any case, in the Welsh Government we have always shown interest and great concern for AP-9, for its operation and, of course, for this AP-9, because it vertebrates the Atlantic facade of the community, connects five of the seven major cities and therefore connects 60% of the population of Galicia. That's why we maintain an active policy in AP-9, continuously demanding, in an insistent way, the improvement of service delivery, the quality of service, and defending in the appropriate forums to make the transfer of AP-9 viable. Transfer of AP-9 that we consider possible and necessary; necessary because we consider management to be more direct, therefore, a management close to the reality of Greece, to provide a greater and better service. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] We have expressed it on many occasions, made it clear in the Joint Commission on Transfers, made it clear by claiming to the Ministry of Development's Infrastructure, Transport and Housing Plan, and made it clear by also claiming the State Roads Act of 2015. And all the political groups in this chamber too, and supported by the parliamentary group that supports the Government of Greece, unanimously, all approved this AP-9 Transfer Bill. And you have no doubt, Mrs. Fernández, that from the German Government we will continue to work to ensure the smooth functioning of the AP-9 and also to assume this competition from the Galician Union, so that we can study different mechanisms for the costing and the quality of the service. In the meantime, we will continue to defend, of course, the optimization of the fees and the application of fees where there is a margin. And you were asking a lot at the end about public transport. Of course we strongly bet on public transport. No government would I say so forcefully. The Metropolitan Transport Plan, already in five of the seven major cities in progress, will soon be six – just last week Vigo joined that Metropolitan Transport Plan, which was already operating in twelve municipalities in the area – will therefore allow savings to public transport users from EUR 1,000 per year. This same summer, Ourense. So we're also pushing intermodal stations, working on projects in the part that touches us, which are bus terminals, and funds are guaranteed. The funds are guaranteed because there's management, because there's an implication betting on what we think is good for Galicia. Because it doesn't happen to us like some mayor of the Tide of Podemos, who doesn't understand the intermodal station as good for his neighbors or his city. We, from Galicia, of course, understand that intermodal stations are keys to Galicia, are keys to the metropolitan area and are keys to the city's neighbours. We will work decisively to give alternative mobility to the Greeks, which we work for; more profitable, more sustainable mobility alternatives, to the detriment of the use of the particular vehicle. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u277	Thank you, Counselor. Replica, Mrs. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u278	"Nothing new under the sun," I said. I'm going to leave this plenary session really without nearly answering all the formulations I made. And what is the purpose of the Executive's action in relation to the pricing policy of the Welsh highways? I repeat again and, in fact, they already include it in my first exhibition: I know there are discounts, but you also know that Galicia has some peculiarities that neither Madrid nor Basque Country nor Catalonia, for example. Still, it seems very serious to me that we have to use almost one path, that there is not too much alternative, to go to work or to study, and that they record us for that. I suppose you as the Infrastructure Advisor who is, who has that responsibility, know that in many countries of Europe, apart from the fact that many do not have fees, others have very specific rates, but even those who do not have rates at best do have to pay on time for a certain trip that is not by obligation. So, I do think it's pretty serious. Above all, to go to work, to do a service, to be able to give life, above all, on the economic and social level, because we still record, we penalize. And it can be seen that the Italian Government is still a subject in Madrid. They say this expression of "love is power," because no, because it's not just intention, you have to prove it. A few years have passed and it really hasn't come true. And I think it's incredible because we're being sued or like foreign-interest vassals that will only come here to profit. And I'm very afraid that apart from not removing the AP-9 fee, they'll surely increase their price. I don't know how many times we'll have to pay for that. And then referring to the number of tracks they did, yes, I think. But I think Galicia also goes, rather than say years of delay, with decades of delay with respect to other points. So, of course, now maybe it all comes suddenly. And also to appoint that merit is not merit, it is an obligation of a government that has almost been in power for more than thirty years. More than merit, it's an obligation. You're there to rule for the Greeks and for the Greeks. He'll be waiting for AP-9, I don't know when we'll see him. In this government that is ending, in this second legislation, no. After that, to ensure equality of conditions and communications on the Welsh roads to the entire population, for not at present, nor does a transformation of society take place in the immediate future. I'm still missing a lot of serious policies, serious investments in public transport. It still seems to be banned from talking about another type of transport, railway transport. I think it's incredible that we are practically incommunicado within the Greek territory, and practically the biggest communications by frequency are out. I don't know if that's an indirect one that we have to go look for life outside, because here's pretty black. And then he didn't tell me anything about the alternative to funding if you don't charge to pay. I don't think I can say even shockingly about the percentages of companies that lead to AG-11, Salnes, AG-41 and Celanova, AG-31. Well, the figures we're talking about in the report and what it costs us all of the Galicians and the Greeks are quite scandalous; above all, having to pay that kind of compensation to this type of company. And on the last one, public transport by road. Indeed, in practice, it is the only thing that interests, which is to favor – I suppose it is the companies of the builders friends – many roads. So we have to look to the future. I think Galicia has great potential, which today has not been able to exploit. It seems that sometimes we even have to go outside to give credit to what we have inside. And, above all, I would like to see if this second intervention could clarify me a little more, because I'm going to go with the doubts and practically with a blank folio, as if it were a non-response examination, to this end of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u279	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Closure round, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u280	Thank you, President. Mrs. Fernández, when you hear your intervention, I think there's something obvious from now on that at least seems important to me: we have an alternative to AP-9, and it's more sustainable, we have the Atlantic axis, the Atlantic axis, which is the true surface meter in Galicia and therefore a true alternative to AP-9. By entering the matter of the general road regulation, which is what brought us here today, the Board has drawn up and approved a first, the first general road regulation in Galicia, adapted to territorial reality, with the conviction that, of course, you said it, we are not all autonomous communities. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In addition to providing legal security, adapting it to the Greek reality, the bet is clear, and I leave it clear in my intervention: not imposing new fees consecrates the free use of the routes of the Union, and where there are the fees bet by reducing them, by establishing measures or procedures to reduce or even cancel the payment. That's what the road regulations themselves say, and that's exactly what we've done and what we're doing in the Union Government. This board did not impose any toll, in these years of crisis we made a big bet for vertebrating Galicia with highways, high-feed free routes. I said this in my first intervention: we increased from here to the end of the legislation in 210 new kilometres of high-performance pathways, all of them free of charge. And also autonomic highways, AG-55 and AG-57, important efforts, 50 percent even bonus. And this was the first and only Government to implement these bonuses, which involved savings of EUR 2.5 million to the Greeks and to the Greeks who used those highways, freezing the rates for the third consecutive year. And that's why we have the highways, the competition of the Galician Union, the cheapest in Spain. Having said this, let's remind you of one thing: one thing is building ways of paying and blessing the existing ones, and one very different thing is releasing a fee by rescuing a concession. Freeing a toll is worth hundreds of millions of euros. I don't know if your bet is that this administration, which has the competences in health care, in education and also important in social services, is that it stops investing in these basic services to rescue a concession. We, of course, essential public services are not going to take any more weight. Do you know, for example – that you didn't ask me – what is saving AG-55 and AG-57? Well, it's EUR 235 million, which means the rescue of those two highways. I don't know what your bet is, but, of course, I'm pretty clear that to put in a place you have to get out of the other. So, what's your bet, where do we get the 235 million euros? In any case, in relation to AP-9, I think the unequivocal interest of the Galician board for assuming the title is unquestionable; we will continue to work for it, because we think it is legally possible. We think it's best for the country, and that's why we're still complaining, because in Galicia we only have one AP-9, and that's why we can focus on that AP-9, in Spain for the Ministry there are twenty-six AP-9. In any case, we will ensure better functioning, with an active policy for AP-9, and also asking for equal opportunities for equal pay. As for the improvement of mobility, I made in my first intervention a clear bet for the promotion of public transport and intermodality. I don't know if you've noticed the Metropolitan Transport Plan, but it's a real social plan that allowed very important savings to the neighbours of the Coruña, Ferrol, Santiago, Lugo and Vigo areas. We are talking about savings since it was implemented by EUR 45.5 million to the users who used public transport in those areas where we have implemented it. And we're going to reinforce it with a new social measure: free interurban transport to those under the age of 18, the Galician metropolitan card of young people, with 2 million more euros. At the intermodal stations – I think there is no doubt already – more modern, more sustainable and more orderly public transport. A clear bet by the intermodal stations for the exchange of safe and axile transport. I want to summarize – and I feel that I am no longer standing. I believe that the policy of this government in the area of tariffs is absolutely clear: bonuses in the middle of economic crisis, which led to the saving of EUR 145 million to users who are obliged to use motorways; more than 200 new kilometres of high-performance routes, all free of charge in the middle of economic crisis; and to offer quality public transport, with savings to users of more than EUR 45 million since its implementation. I think that's a clear, unprecedented bet on this German Government. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u281	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to the eighth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions from the Government. Question by Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes and two other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the purpose of the grants convened in the Official Journal of Galicia no. 120 of June 27, for municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants and associations of neighbors, confederations, federations or associations of neighbors associations
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u282	Question by Mrs Maria Soledad Soneira Tajes of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u283	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, the Galician Council has carried out an amendment of appropriations, whose information has just made it easier for Parliament these days, for a total amount of EUR 5 million. You were transferred from a match called "unpredicted and unclassified functions," in the Chair, to another match of "Local Administration" and you split that match into 2 million for "Best municipal infrastructure and equipment" and 3 million for "Activities in Neighborhood Associations." This is supported by two orders that you sign, which curiously establish that they are made in non-competitive competition for municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants and for associations, federations, neighborhood unions, etc. Our question literally says: What political purpose do these subsidies pursue? Because, first, it's in non-competitive competition, you give yourself a month's term, in July. That means it's a month when many professionals have already taken their vacations, municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants who don't have the infrastructure needed in many cases for project drafting. And I must confess one thing: one of those who called me to ask why it was his mayor. Because what he was saying to me was, is that here at Junta there are my mayors and there are others who are mine; that is, those who are warned will have the projects in time, they will present us in that time frame, and they will all stay out of the opposition obviously – that they didn't know anything about this thing that you pulled out – and some who aren't theirs. And then there's the funds for neighboring associations. And besides you, Mr. Rueda, in this case he distributes 3 million in a provincial division, which dedicates to the Crown, 950,000 euros; Lugo, 500,000; Ourense, 500,000; and – the curious – Pontevedra, 1,050,000 euros. It's because it's your electoral constituency, it's because there's the political bug -- understand it -- that you need to control through interposted pathways, read associations of "domesticated" neighbors -- between quotes -- close to power, easily controlled, to make opposition from outside and what can't be done or can't be done from within institutions. Mr. Rueda, our question goes that way: what political purpose does this order pursue to be taken out on full vacations for many professional offices, in non-competitive competition, and to dominate in addition to the councils, which are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u284	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u285	...the legitimate representatives of citizens, legitimate entities, of course, but, in this case, what do you want me to tell you, with the background you have your party because they're a little suspicious? Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u286	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Response from the Vice-President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Soneira, look, it's the last full of legislation, it's the last question you can ask me, so I'm going to think it makes it informative and I'm going to give you objective information. And the first objective information I have to give is that there must be socialist mayors who are mine and not theirs, because being by non-competitive competition, of the first ones they asked for are socialist mayors. Look at this, you must be asked to me and you mustn't be asked. If that's why I made it curious that of the first requests there were from councils governed by the Socialist Party, with which that first argument came. You ask me what political purpose they have. I suppose I read the order – or perhaps not – if I may, I'll read you the object that is in the two grant orders, in the case of the municipalities and specific tips for "investments for the municipalities of Galicia for the improvement of infrastructure and equipment in order to contribute to the improvement of the quality of local life" – this for the municipalities–. And with regard to neighbouring associations, "specific aid for investments for neighboring associations in Galicia in order to contribute to improving local quality of life and promoting and dynamizing neighbourhood associations." This is the political purpose; logically all governments act for a political purpose and this is the political purpose of these subsidies. But for everyone, the reason they're non-competitive is precisely so that there's no other criterion, which is that they're asking. Announcements? Everyone in the world. Apart from the DOG, two press rounds have been made, the neighbouring associations are still in time to order it. So, anyone who has any interest, I suppose that after three weeks, what you have not at least requested or asked for information is that you have no interest in asking for it, you will be able to access a grant, Mrs. Soneira. I don't know what color each of the neighborhood associations can ask for. I can tell you one thing, which I was wondering why in Pontevedra there is a little bigger than that of the Crown. Because there are more neighboring associations. It's just that this is on the record. If you read the order you'd see that we'd like to be registered in the census of the Galician Union, and it turns out that the percentages of neighbouring associations in each province are scrupulously respected, and according to that the funds are distributed. In Pontevedra – it is also done by chance – I suppose they will be particularly grateful because the Deputy of Pontevedra – oh!, by chance this year, I suppose that the Deputy of Pontevedra and its president if they think that neighbouring associations should not be much of their own color – has completely suppressed the Community Action Plan. There's no kind of subsidy for any kind of neighbourhood association anymore, everything is in charge of the municipalities, the Deputy is not even for that; it's not for temporary aid, nor for aid to non-profit associations, it's not for nothing. So if they are to be cared for by the municipalities, they don't give anything. Many of us were also asked by the Socialist Party – I suppose not controlled by you either, but they would also tell you – to do something so that they might have some help because if they couldn't do a lot of things. Ask me where the money comes from. Very easy, too. In fact, we had to make a budgetary change, the surplus of responsibility that has just met the public deficit, which has just had the public accounts sanated, and now we can do these things. I suppose in autonomy governed by the Socialist Party this can't do, I'm very sorry, to have taken money well.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u288	Replica, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u289	Look, Mr. Rueda, how you lie to them and come in like rockets, you'd say. Of course, or Andalusia, or Abel Caballero and Carmela Silva, in Pontevedra, is one thing... But let's see, Counselor, if it's in non-competitive competition, why are we compatible with provinces? Because the larger number doesn't mean they ask for more, nor does it mean they have the projects, or maybe it means they don't have that need. Because if there's more needs, let's put it by chance in Ourense or in Lugo – as you pulled them out – they have a much smaller budget, and maybe they have to stay out, because if you've run out of play, associations, collectives and municipalities that have more need, and reserve themselves for others who don't ask for it, what's the reason? Of course, you're talking here that the Deputy of Pontevedra did not address the temporary damage. Hey, that's your competition. Yes, and Mr. Feijó asked him when he was in the opposition, literally called him in the press saying it was a competition from the Union, which was not from the municipalities, because it is from the waters of Galicia the absolute abandonment in which they are. And you take advantage of this order in July for... because it's a criterion, I already know what the paper does -- and I'm not so excited that you think you're going to tell me the hidden reasons -- but I already have the experience of the management association. Even though you claim us the Fraga governments, such a Rogelio Aramburu, the agricultural delegate in the province of Coruña, on the Coast of Death mounted this same device, because since there you didn't win in almost any county they wanted to rule even from the party commissions and give them subsidies. Mr. Wheel, you'll understand that – how do you say? – the wet cat... – how is the tale? – burned, the cold water scares you, right? Well, what do you want me to say? And you, who are a clever, very intelligent lord, you don't punch without a thread. So we lied to her province of Pontevedra and jumped.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u290	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u291	And you take these orders out because you take them out.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u292	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u293	You won't tell me here or admit it to stay in the minutes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u294	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u295	...the fundamental political intent, Mr. Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u296	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Close round, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u297	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Soneira, then what should we do? When a neighboring association asks for a grant, do I ask you if it favors the Socialist Party, if you are your friends? And then I don't give him anything, because since this order is only for the PP's, we can't give him anything. So, should we ask the political affiliation of each neighboring association? Shouldn't we look at the more objective criterion that's the order of request? So we asked them who they are, what are you suggesting – I suppose if I had a chance – that if I were the Socialist Party, we wouldn't give him anything at all? I can do it, and when they protest, I tell them: look, Mrs Soneira asked me a question in Parliament and told me that we had to do it this way, because this is done without screwing without a thread – as you say – and therefore it's only for the PP. Do you realize the incongruity you're doing? If you want to do it and when you protest, I send it back to you, and I tell you – as you used this language here – that of those who are friends yes and those who are not friends no. Do you realize, Mrs. Soneira, that if we did this – which I suppose you would – because it turns out there would be no objectivity? I could tell you that when I arrived at the council in 2009, I found that 70% of the grants from my council went to 30% of the socialist councils, and 70% of the PP municipalities had only 30% of the grants. You could have suppressed them according to your criteria, but no, we respect it, because I left the basis that you weren't able to do these things. Now I see that yes, that, indeed, grants are given thought to the color of each one. Look, Mrs. Soneira, if we did this, the temporary-affected municipalities wouldn't have any help either. You say this is the competence of the Galician Union. But where does that come from? By the way, I didn't talk about Mr. Abel Caballero, you spoke. I could talk, that's what it says that neighboring associations are absolutely useless and that they have to be eliminated. And he suppressed them. They don't have the neighborhood associations, except for one that is clearly in favour of Mr. Abel Caballero, no subsidy on Vigo; they've all been suppressed. The Federation of Neighborhood Associations in Vigo has no grant. It was a very powerful move, but since they were not attached to Mr. Mayor of Vigo, subsidies have disappeared; there is none right now. I suppose they'll ask, and I'll have to see the sheep too, ask them, and, if any is close to Mr. Abel Knight, don't you give him anything? That's your theory, that's what you did, and seeing the percentage I found when I got to the Council, I started thinking yes. Now I get a lot of things from when they did the grants as you shared them. [[Murmurs.]] We're not going to do that, Mrs. Soneira. We asked for a few requirements, which were: less than 10,000 inhabitants, not to receive more than 20,000 euros from the Environmental Compensation Fund and to meet, that is, yes – if not, this would be a joke – a series of tax requirements to believe that those municipalities that have healthy accounts can access grants. The others, whether they're from the PP, whether they're from the Socialist Party, are from another party, because they can't. If we start looking for political criteria, we'll start to look like what you would do, so they're probably in opposition -- they've been a few years -- and we're in government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u298	Thank you, Vice President. Question by Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and four other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the situation of negotiations with the Ministry of the Handicrafts to provide a place of public ownership to the Ateneo de Ourense
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u299	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, too, to the directive of the Athens of Ourense, which today accompanies us in this Chamber. And also those who are following us through the website, the members and partners of the Ateneo de Ourense. To review the history of Athens a little bit, it must be remembered that in the year 69 what we know in Ourense as a building of the Tower was a building that had many urban problems. As a result of these urban problems, the city was given the instigator of the Tower building, where this entity was settled; an entity that was set in motion at a moment of decline of franchise, at a moment that went to the city, which went to our province, a reduction to debate in freedom, a reduction of tolerance. The Ateneo de Ourense did, among other things, catalytics in 1974 – and I like to remember it all the time –; it was a catalytic movement of Oresan civil society to prevent the installation of a cellulose in my city. A jealous woman who could have the same problems today as that of the Pontevedra River if she hadn't gone through the fincapé and the work that was done between those walls. This is a space where notable writers of our culture like Risco or White Love were there; a White Love that read, according to me recently confessed to some members of Athens, a work as badger of our culture as A Smorga, a White Love that confessed to one of its members what was still a secret then, which was their passion for photography. There was also Mr. Xaime Quesada, a badge painter of what we have many works in this House. At the time of democracy, Athens continued to play its role, a very important role. There they met the citizen platforms, and went and continued to be a meeting for the world of culture and for the social and political life of our city. And it was until November 2011 they were defeated. That day reminded the members of Athens with pity. That day not only came out boxes of that thirst, not only came out boxes and furniture with documentation, that day a very important part, Counselor, of political life, of the social and cultural life of the city of Ourense in this context, and became a context of urban interests, at a time when this autonomous community was governed by the People's Party. In this scenario, on March 9, an initiative was approved in this House to address this problem and to provide the Athens of Ourense with a local...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u300	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u301	...an initiative that was adopted by all parliamentary groups. I ask you, Counselor, how far do you find the negotiations to equip the Ateneo of Ourense from a place? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u302	Thank you. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u303	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam, I am also glad that the Athens directive is with us. I agree with you in the historical role that this institution has developed, like other similar institutions in other cities of Spain, and in this particular case as a focus of culture, as a place of social encounter. And he said that I'm glad the directive is here, that we're happy, because he won't let me lie. And I'm going to give you a storyteller of the facts about what you're asking us here. You ask us here in response, as you have said, to an initiative led by the Socialist Group and approved on 9 March where an agreement is reached, and I will literally read the agreement. The Parliamentary Agreement tells us: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Council to consult with the Spanish Ministry of Finance the register of empty public ownership sites to open a negotiation process aimed at equipping the Ateneo of Ourense to continue its non-profit activity, ensuring that contacts take place within a maximum of one month." This is what was literally approved in this House. Well, this order in Parliament leads and moves the Council to measure the state administration so that the Athenian could equip himself, it could have a new location, so that there would be a transfer of a new location. Let me point out that this parliamentary agreement has already taken a step a few days. Within a few days the representatives of the Ateneo de Ourense request by letter an interview, in this case to the Councillory, which was derived from the Technical General Secretariat of the Council. This meeting took place on 8 April, according to the agendas, of the persons who were to attend. At that meeting, two representatives of Athens transferred to the General Secretariat the need for space they needed to develop their activities. I mean, they define the characteristics of space to comply with this agreement. A few days later, the Council gave a letter to the delegation of the State Agency of Tax Administration, asking for and communicating this question. In particular, on 12 April, it is requested that these empty locations that the State Administration has so that they can be used by Athens, and in that case there is a transfer. Perhaps you will know – that the representatives of Athens already know – that on 20 April the Council receives a notification from the Delegation of Economics and Business where it is reported that, taking into account the characteristics of the space demanded and taking into account the inventory of goods in this case the Tax Agency, the state agency in Ourense, does not have any empty sites suitable for the needs demanded. Subsequently, just a day after this day, on 21 April, by the Council, in this case nominally the Secretary General, in a telephone conversation, informs the directive, people, in this case the President of Athens, of the response received from the State Administration. This is the storyteller of the facts...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u304	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u305	These facts mean that the Council has fulfilled its parliamentary mandate, has followed Parliament's mandate and has made the relevant management before the Tax Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u306	Thank you. Replica. Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u307	Thank you very much, President. "We are aware of the existence of public ownership sites belonging to the Ministry of Business. That's why, Mrs. Blanco, it is said in this amendment of the People's Party that you negotiate with the Ministry of Business." These are not my words, Counsellor, these are Mr. Fernández's words in Commission 4a. Then, one out of three: or Mr. Fernández lied to the Councillor at the negotiations they had that day or lied to me or you're lying to me today and he's taking the hair - and forgive me the expression - to all the ores and ores. You are clearly violating a parliamentary agreement. There is no respect, Counsellor, for the agreements that are being made in this House – it is not the first time that has happened – in this Parliament. And more to Ourense, because, look, I'm going to remind you: in this Parliament, a decision has also been made about the Ourense Archaeological Museum, which has been closed for decades. Counsellor, you are depriving the oransa society of the enjoyment of its public spaces, of spaces which, as I said in my first intervention, are a reference to all the orensaans, and you do so without any kind of smell. And you come here to say that you have perfectly complied with the resolution of the proposal. Please ask you, Counselor, not only not to take our hair; please finish your mandate being worthy of Ourense, and I say this: be worthy of our city and return something that you have taken from it. And I'm going to tell you, Counselor, and I'm going to remind you, because I remind you perfectly that builder of the Tower building, that very friendly builder of some of the People's Party, today is involved in the Gürtel plot. That was no accident, Counselor, that was a complicity that the People's Party allowed, an urban platoon that the People's Party allowed. Here we had a golden opportunity to return something that is from the oransansans and the orensas and you just threw it away. I just want to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u308	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u309	...to thank here, in the house of all the Greeks, for the work that the Ateneo de Ourense directive has been doing all these years and that at no time has ceased to do so. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u310	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u311	Yes, Madam, I am very glad to see your exposure, to see your tone, to see how, before an objective narrative, with dates, of objective facts – and I am sure that the representatives of Athens, of the Athens directive, will know – they will see and we can ask who you have and who you are not right, who is here overacting and who is here painting a landscape that really doesn't have to do with reality. And I think that you, being the Socialist Party and being from Ourense, come here to talk about urban interests a little bit of a joke. You tell us: one out of three. I'd say one in two. Look, I'm going to tell you, one of two: the tax administration has been charged with the availability of places. There are places, of course, but now we have to see if those places that exist meet the requirements demanded and communicated by the directive to the Council. If they don't meet them, then, Your Honor, you can't make available something that doesn't meet expectations in this Athens case. And I'll tell you another question. You may like it or not, and you may or may not be aware of the fulfilment of the parliamentary mandate, because, of course, you are here happily questioning a process of negotiation and management between the Athens directive, the autonomous administration and the state administration. Well, I'm going to tell you that the Autonomic Administration, in this case Junta, the councillor I'm addressing, not only went to the state, but also addressed the Autonomous Farm to find out if there were places available and the conditions required. Unfortunately, it couldn't have been like that. Now, if you try, in some way, to point a little bit at a question that really has no way of walking, let me tell you that everyone chooses the way to make politics that they want, but in the end times and realities put each one in its place. And that's why I said I was very glad that the Athens directive was here, because this directive can certify whether I lie or whether you, by not liking my answer, are overacting to somehow try to question the political activity and action in this case of the Galician Union. What if I cannot allow you – let me tell you this in a very kind way – is that you question the political support that exists, in this case, from the Galician Union, to culture in Ourense, or that somehow you try to transfer responsibility to the self-government that is not her. Because in the end, this council and this Galician board, with Ourense, with this municipal government and the previous one, had a clear commitment and had that clear commitment. With which, Your Honor, I regret that in the end the facts leave you in the wrong place...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u312	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u313	...and, I insist, I am very glad that the Athens directive is here, that you can verify if my storybook is true or if your words are just a little bit more...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u314	End, please, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u315	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u316	Thank you, Counselor. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo and D. Francisco Jesus Jorquera Caselas, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the predictions of the Galician Union regarding the adoption of some measure to resolve the situation of the AG-55 motorway, in the third The Art-Crowd, and eliminate the toll on it for all users
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u317	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, I'm also going to talk about fees, because there's a social cry that demands the abolition of the fee in AG-55, the only autonomic highway, along with AG-57, so we have to pay the fee. There are many reasons why this claim is justified. The traffic that can absorb AG-55 is a traffic mostly of neighborhoods. Many people make this route every day; even for labor reasons many up to four times a day. AG-55 was born as an alternative to decongesting conventional roads, but these are still saturated because having to pay fees is something most cannot afford. A problem, moreover, aggravated by the dependence of the private vehicle, because public transport is very poor. Finally, the fee causes AG-55 not to solve the mobility needs of the comarcas it connects. Another reason is that the AG-55 motorway only has the label; it looks like a broken road, with tranches in which there is a continuous succession of very closed and strong slopes. And there's another reason, Counselor, the other reason is the news we know these days: the offer of voitre funds for buying Itinere, the concessionaire of AG-55 and also of AP-9; a highway – the latter – totally amortized, more than 2,500 million profits in 22 years. And while the Greeks pay abusive fees, others deal with speculative operations, which we'll also have to pay everyone, Counsellor, because depreciation is calculated at the cost of the purchase, not at the real cost of building AP-9 and maintaining it. But, returning to the subject, Counsellor, the service of the highway access to the outer port of the Coruña is another reason to lift the toll on the highway The Coruña-Carballo, AG-55. The result of the agreement signed between the Ministry of Development, the Galician Union and Galician motorways – the concessionary of this motorway and belonging to the Itinere group – is an authenticly absurd situation: you can circulate without paying fee between Artexo and the outer port of the Coruña and vice versa, or between The Coruña and the outer port and vice versa, but not between Arteixo and The Coruña and vice versa. So, Counsellor, are you going to arbitrate any solutions to remove the toll in AG-55? Are you going to arbitrate any particular solutions to remove the weight of the Priesthood in Artix? Be explicit in your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u318	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Response from the Infrastructure & Living Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u319	Thank you, President. Mr. Jorquera, I believe you will agree with me that the opening of the vial that provides service to the outer port is a good news, a good news for The Coruña, a good news for the region, for the province and for all of Galicia. It will strengthen the potential of the external port, will also gain operationality and competitiveness, will therefore favour activity and will bring investment and employment, of course, to this whole area. But I think you should know – and I'm sure you know, I'm sure – that it was designed by Government Zapatero and supported by Government bipartisan; even you were allied, because you were in Congress, with your vote on that Government Zapatero who bet on that plot. Because, I have to be honest, to myself the plot, that design outside, I don't like anything, but we have to be responsible for the interests. We took the previous mistakes, we looked for the best solution, because it was true that it was not a reason to block the post in service of an access via the external port that I needed and needed to be operational. If we start from scratch, I also tell you that we wouldn't, of course, choose that trace, I also tell you as an engineer. In any case, the trace that is involved in going through AG-55, and it didn't seem logical to access the outer port by paying a fee. That's why we're promoting an agreement to put into service this cost-free infrastructure for traffic that access the external port and cost-free to the administration. Your Honor, we are talking about an agreement between Together and the Ministry that allowed you to put into service a new finished road, a commitment by the Government of Spain to assume that fee so that the traffic that went to the foreign port would not pay the fee. Another question is to extend access to the outside port to the third round, and who knows that it is taken in the reporting phase. I think there is room for reflection, for dialogue and, of course, for talking about this connection. We always bet on dialogue against irresponsible conduct. I don't think it's responsible to me and I don't think it's an exact solution that prevents the putting into service of an infrastructure that gives access to the external port. In any case, willingness to dialogue to create, with the new Government, a work table to study that feasibility with regard to the fee that you had commented on me. And I see that he only wants the release of the toll to Pastoral Authority. I don't know if there are first- and second-guesses, because even Carballo, Val Minor... In any case, what's your proposal, which I didn't understand?: Do you want us to put in service a new finished road?, do you want to leave the outside port without access? If that's your proposal, of course I don't share it, and what we did was to favor the entry into service and free of charge to the outer port of the Coruña. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u320	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u321	Counsellor, advisor, you are, therefore, what has to be clear is your approach, and the answer has not remained at all. Look, in the debate of the inquiry you appealed to the cost of the public era of bailout. It was possible to remember this when he settled the contract for the concession of public works between Baio and Berdoias to measure the interests of the dealership rather than the general interest. But let me give you a series of information like the former Minister of Development. AG-55 was born without pay, Counselor. It was a PP government that implemented it, as it was a PP government that decided to extend the concession of AP-9 until 2048, and even changed the law to allow speculative operations like those we know these days. So the problem is that you've created it; it's up to you to find a solution. A solution, first, to end the marginalization of Bergantinos and the Coast of Death, Counselor. Having an income, the average had to pay the price, while other comarcas enjoy free buses to connect with the nearest cities. And secondly, to have a map of rational high-capacity pathways that meets the mobility needs and avoids waste of public resources. Look, this summer's gonna open the stretch between Carballo and Baio, an unpaved plot. Does it make sense that while there is still a fee in the most traffic stop, where conventional roads are continuous crossings and are saturated with traffic? Does it make sense that Fomento plans to extend the highway access to the outer port of the Coruña until it connects it to AC-14 to avoid having to pay compensation for the use of AG-55 when that extension has a much higher cost than the abolition of the rate of Pastoriality? Would it not be more rational to optimize existing infrastructures? Do you know what our position is, Counselor? Raise the priestly toll first and lift the rest of the beaches between Carballo and La Coruña afterwards. What you have to do is meet social demand and negotiate and reach a solution, because that's your responsibility as long as you're a counselor, Madam Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u322	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u323	Thank you, President. Well, I remind you that we are open to analyze and dialogue what you propose, which is also what the mayor of Artexo demands, and I remind you that, with the new Government, of course we will work to create a commission, a working group, with the corresponding technical reports, because it's how things are done, to release the fee, to minimize the costs of the fee. In any case, I think you will share with me that the release of the weight of AG-55 does not free by giving it to a button; otherwise, you would have done it during the Bipartite, I say. I don't think he's free by giving him a button. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] In any case, debates are legitimate, positive, when they are done with rigour, knowing how much things cost and where money comes from. [[Mr. Jorquera Caselas speaks words that are not perceived.]] I think you cannot mix the opening of a work of general interest, such as access to the outside port, with the fact that AG-55 is a payment road to the user. No one likes to pay. Of course I don't like the fees, for nothing, but we have to be responsible, and to make free, we know that we have to get the money from the other side. And today – I said earlier, I think it was you and if you heard it – the rescue of AG-55 and AG-57 is 235 million euros. I don't know why it bothers you to ask. I'm willing to dialogue, talk and admit proposals. Where do we get the 235 million euros? I think being here in a spirit of dialogue is not bad. He doesn't seem to like it, but, well. In any case, we're not going to get it out of health, education or social services, because it's EUR 235 million from the Administration with these powers. To speak is easy, to manage reality is much more complicated, you know it perfectly, that I have it as a very responsible Member, but it is also true that if the Bipartite noticed this issue, he had four years to do it too; the Bipartite in which his party was at, and I saw that he did not take a step to liberalize the weight of AG-55. We bet we're the first and only government in the bonuses. AG-55 rates are the cheapest in Spain. We've frozen them for the last three years. I insist: it's 235 million euros, but in any case we'll be open to negotiating these possible alternatives. But, Mr. Jorquera, they want to look like they're betting on free highways, but when we want to do that, they lock us up and take us to the prosecution, even to the officials. In spite of you, we'll take the free highway to the Coast of Death, even though you took us to the Procurator's Office. For my part, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u324	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Antón Sánchez García and five other Members of the G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Left, on the actions planned by the Government of Greece in relation to the damage caused to the archaeological heritage of the region of the Navy on the occasion of the forest exploitation of the eucalyptus
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u325	Good afternoon, Counselor. So, there are first- and second-guess, because there are free highways and others for which you have to pay the fee. We've been full hours and maybe I'm suffering hallucinations. I also heard Mr. Vice-President set an example for the People's Party not to grant subsidies on the basis of political colour. I think they're already affecting me for so many hours here, because I'd just have to ask Mr. Diego Calvo or Mr. Louzán to see how the subsidies are granted. Counsellor, you will agree with me that in rural Galicia they should live with forest and agricultural activities with heritage conservation and environmental conservation. For the future of rural life, for us, it is essential that this be so, there is room for all of them, and there is room for them to live together. There were two collectives, Adega and Marine Heritage, who reported about 50 archaeological deposits where damage was caused by planting or cutting eucalyptus operations. This was after a hard job, trying to get the inventory of archaeological deposits from the Council of Culture. I think it's been months to do it, as I was informed, and once they got the inventory, it was just to consult through Sigpac the deposits where these plantations or cuts were made. These kinds of industrial-type plantations use machinery that works and removes the soil at great depth and they need a kind of plantation that uses heavy machinery for which they have to open clues that often damage walls and defensive fortifications from the chests, and other times there are damage to the plantations in mammoths and in diverse archeological heritage. So, since it's not a matter that's going to be timely, since there are many thousands of hectares of eucalyptus in the country and there are many hundreds of archaeological deposits, I think this should not be taken as an isolated case, but if the Culture Council wants to protect the heritage in this country it must be clear what the actions it has to do to reconcile both things. As far as these two groups are concerned, the attitude of the Culture Council was not very proactive to collaborate with these two groups. They're doing a valuable job, and so what we ask them is, what is the Culture Council doing before these facts? and what you're going to do in the future to correct this performance, which we consider to be careless and unwilling to protect this heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u326	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Response from the Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Ordering.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u327	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Sánchez, you ask us what the Government of Greece is going to do in the face of aggressions against the archaeological heritage. I have to tell you that the important thing is not what you're going to do but that the important thing is what you're doing, because the German Government and this councillory, ladies and gentlemen, are protecting, as your duty is, the heritage of the whole country. And I believe that this is already a record of this in this Parliament and that it has already been informed on many occasions of the work being done. Look, when we're faced with aggressions on our heritage, on our archaeological, cultural, architectural heritage, we act. When one detects, in this particular case, that a owner of a forest asset or land asset is harming or acting without heritage authorization, when he has to do so, because we also act, and we always do so. You're talking about the Navy shining. I'm going to give you some data just from the performances that have developed in the Navy are shining for your information. Look, over the past five years – for us to have a certain historical vision – 17 complaints have been received for alleged affection to archaeological deposits due to forest work, whether they are restockings, or be such. Once you have a record, you act. It was documented in three of them that there were no archaeological deposits, and in the remaining 14 it was also relieved that there was no condition. If it was found that in three unpublished deposits that were not catalogued, that were not inventoryed, and that were, from here on, incorporated with their different organizational documents. Obviously, I suppose you will agree with me that the Council of Culture not only does not allow any action that can damage an archaeological deposit, but, in a preventive manner, it has a number of precautionary measures that imposes on those farmers, on those mountain communities, which legitimately manage their forest resources or agricultural resources. These conditions shall be informed to citizens, owners, landowners, farmers and forest owners so that, in the event of compatibility with both actions, there shall be no aggression which may go against the property value. You, who also cares about the rural environment, will understand that both issues need to be compatible and that actions that can damage archaeological assets must be foreseen. And when it is detected – which in any case has been detected – that despite preventive work, despite the informational work and the work linked to accreditations to proceed with thalla, restockings, etc., that there is some kind of aggression, the Council initiates relevant sanctioning mechanisms. What is true, Your Honor, is that we are working in favor of better information...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u328	Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u329	...that we are working – the new Heritage Act thus allows – that there is access to the easier heritage information and that those farmers, farmers, owners of forest goods, be private or be mountain communities, when...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u330	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u331	...that they develop their activity, take into account the reality of assets and can make both actions compatible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u332	Replica. Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u333	Well, since you take out the subject, Counselor, you should also ask why at this point we don't have the inventory in digital format so you can consult. I don't know if that's a very proactive performance of his counseling, but at this point, in 2016, in industry 4.0, of which we so boast, that we haven't even referred to archaeological deposits in digital format, it's a very poor performance, Mr. Counsellor, since he tells me. You say you're acting. There are two questions that make me question your answer: one, which in five years there were 17 complaints... yes, in the Navy, yes, but in the Navy we already know the activity of plantations and cuts there are, and in five years it seems to me very little activity, Counsellor, and much more when these two groups suddenly present 56 complaints, of which, once inspected, in 40 there were deposits. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So it's much bigger the work done by these two groups, which in an unofficial way, but with very important work they worry about protecting the heritage, that the Council's own performance, which in five years receives 17 complaints but does not make any complaint on its own, does no pre-monitoring work. That's what we're telling him. So what are we doing? Well, they're making a pretty poor effort. And I should also explain why these collectives are practically treated as suspects when they're doing valuable work for this country, and why it takes months to receive that inventory, Counsellor. How is it possible that these people take months to receive an inventory of archaeological deposits? I don't see any logic. I'd like to believe that if you're making that effort, Counselor, but you know you're not doing it. Even so, you can purposely amend and tell us that from now on they're going to work seriously for the protection of heritage. For now, Counselor, the samples don't say that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u334	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u335	Mr. Sánchez, the protection of the heritage must be made of spikes and it must be made of bread. I sometimes, listening to you, to people in your group, outside the areas of management, have quite frankly peaks to talk about the protection of the heritage, but when it comes to acting in the field of your competences, in areas that they have, municipal or any other, nothing. And I'm going to give you an example. Very recently, in a municipality ruled by you, where this Parliament is located, there was a cut made by municipal operators without any permission on the English Way. He was informed – no, I'm telling him to see the difference between speaking and managing – in that case to the Town Hall, to the conchler – he understood that the conchler had no information or that he had not done it in bad faith, and there was no absolute answer. It had to be the General Directorate of Heritage who solved this matter, when it was an exclusive competition from the Town Hall, because they were municipal workers cutting trees on the English Way, on the historic road, on the historical trace of the English Way. That's why I say one thing is peak and another thing is spade. And, look, I'm going to tell you that heritage assets are inventoryed, catalogued and reflected in municipal planning. That means that when a citizen, a private person, a farmer, a farmer or a community of mountains wants to perform an act in the environment of that heritage good you have to apply for an authorization, you have to apply for a license in the Town Hall that will enable you to start that activity or not. And then the Town Hall, following the requirements to a certain extent of Heritage, will enable or will not enable or enable it or not. Of course, you say, there are only 17 complaints. Well, what do you want me to say? They're the ones that were raised, and that's neither bad nor good. What is true is that what we have to be aware of is that the Council of Culture is, firstly, strengthening the protection of the heritage and making available to the municipal services relevant information to catalogue and load in its municipal plans the assets, so that, when some type of intervention is authorized, the authorization given by the municipalities must, in some way, take those premises into account. Obviously, you can act. You, who also defends the rural environment, see that a forest owner may best cut down that forest without municipal permission. Obviously, there you will understand that the responsibility is who it is. Or you might also understand that, despite the precautions or the demands, if you make a forest intervention and damage a good one. That's whose responsibility it is. But you won't be able to deny it, because you're sure that if you ask livestockmen or if you ask people living in the forest, they'll know that Heritage acts, and it's acting quite intensively, and in some way, it's leading a lot to the activity of farmers, livestock and forest owners.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u336	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u337	So, Your Honor, I come back to what I said at first: one thing is the peak and another thing is the spade, and when you talk only about beak and not pa, for we really come to the wrong conclusions. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Question by Mr Aurelio Alfonso Núñez Centeno and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evaluation of the Health Council regarding the situation of the donation and transplantation of organs and tissues in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u338	Thank you, President. [[Mr. Fajardo Recouso pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Good afternoon, ladies. Mr. Fajardo, too, is not interested in the question. Good afternoon, Counselor. Galicia has always been very involved and committed to the donation and transplantation of organs and tissues, an activity that takes place within public health in our public hospitals, constituting a real success in our health system. People who benefit from the generosity of others, who are allowed to continue to have illusions, opportunities, to have a future, know well the importance of this gratitude, but also the importance of the good and effective management of this service. An offer is much more than figures, it's a gesture, an action that allows the person who receives that organ or tissue the possibility of seeing their quality of life improved, and in many cases even saving their own life. In our country we have a large system of prayer and transplants coordinated by the National Transplant Organization, Spain being a world leader in this issue. In Galicia, in particular, we perform over two hundred organ transplants per million inhabitants. We count in our community with a reference hospital in the matter, as is the University Hospital of Coruña. Recently, the results of the 2015 transplant programme were published. That is why we put the following question to you in this plenary: how does the Council of Health value the situation of prayer and transplantation of organs and tissues in our community? No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u339	Thank you, Mrs. Devesa. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u340	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, very late. Saving lives is possible, and one of the most rewarding ways is through organ or tissue prayer. The first thing I want to highlight is that this activity, prayer and transplantation, takes place within public health, in public hospitals, a real success of our system. I think we can be proud of this achievement of all. In our country we have a great system of grants and transplants. Spain is a world referent. In Galicia, in particular, we perform more than a hundred organ transplants per million inhabitants. During 2015, the Galego Health Service conducted a total of 338 organ transplants in its hospitals, which means a 22% increase compared to last year. Specifically, of the total transplants, 168 were from the kidney – of the 37 were from living patients – 94 from liver, 4 from pancreas, 25 from heart and 47 from lung. I would like to point out that in 2015 the University Hospital Complex of Coruña, as you pointed out, conducted a total of 257 organ transplants, and it was located as the center that performed more transplants in Spain. During 2015 continued to strengthen the live donor kidney transplant, which last year they did, as I previously signaled, 37 and 18 until May this same year. Thus, since 2001 a total of 2,038 transplants have been performed in this paragraph. 22.3% of Galician kidney transplants come from a live donor. In total, since the first transplant was carried out from 1981 until December 31, 2015, a total of 6,948 organ transplants have been made in Galicia. If we add to these 148 transplants performed until June 30, 2016, we have 7,096 transplants. Behind these cold figures, after each of these over 7,000 interventions, there's a patient, a person, from whom his life was saved or who checked how his quality of life was radically improved. There's also a solidarity gesture from a donor, a generous act like there are a few. As health counsellor, I can only convey my deepest gratitude to them, to the patients, to their families, who are at this moment emotionally difficult to do this gesture so generous. With regard to patients waiting, during 2015, the number of people waiting for a transplant in Galicia, which was 321, 3 of heart, 29 of lung, 73 of liver, 8 of pancreas and 208 of kidney, decreased. The total number of queued recipients decreased by 24.3% compared to the previous balance. On June 30, 2016, it's 292. We must point out that Galicia, as the set of Spain, is a world leader in this field; she has always been very involved and committed to the donation of the transport of organs and tissues. I would therefore like to acknowledge the magnificent work of the Transplant Coordination Office, as well as that of the professional set of systems involved in both prayer and transplantation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u341	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Devesa.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u342	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to begin by congratulating the service professionals in Galicia, and also, Counsellor, on their advice on transplant data in our community last year 2015. As you have just pointed out in your intervention, it is reflected the commitment of the Government of Galicia to public health, and, in this case, to people who need a transplant to improve their quality of life. If well we couldn't be talking about this data, if donor people and their families didn't make this decision, at times especially sensitive and complicated, to offer others a new opportunity by giving a organ or tissue. That courage to say yes, to give life or to improve the quality of life of a third party, must be grateful to this Parliament and recognized as an essential step for transplants and patients. For this reason, from our parliamentary group, we would like to specify the numbers of patients, the characteristics of them and the rates of family negatives. No more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u343	Thank you, Mrs. Devesa. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u344	Thank you very much, Madam. In my first speech, I approached the transplant activity; in this second, I want to focus on the prayer, the most supportive link in the system. The number of body donors in Galicia was in 109 in 2015, 57 in the province of Coruña, 11 in Lugo, 6 in Ourense and 35 in Pontevedra. With this data, Galicia registers the largest number of donors in a year. It was a 20% increase over the previous year and it is assumed that in Galicia there are 39.9 patients per million population. With regard to the causes of donor death, the main reasons were strokes, with 74.3%, followed by cranioencephalic traumas and anoxia – lack of oxygen in a tissue. With regard to the average age of the donor, it was 61.6 years old. And with regard to sex, 50.5 were men and 49.5 were women. There has been a variation in recent years in the improvement of road safety, and that's why right now the patient is a patient of a certain age, and, as I said a moment ago, by strokes more than by craniocephalic traumas, as it was a very short time ago. The negative family rate dropped almost 5 points in 2015, compared to the previous one, from 27.4 to 22.7 in 2015. If well, that figure continues to be high and we will continue to work precisely to involve the population in increasing it. I want to make, on behalf of the Galego Health Service and my particular one, a congratulations to the Office for the Coordination of Transplants, and a public recognition to donors and their families for the courage, strength and generosity they show at those difficult times. In a moment, they just told them that a person, a relative, a son, a grandfather or a father loses his life, and they have enough completeness to offer it to society and to give life to another person in trouble. They all really make it possible for the largest number of transplants to be a reality. Currently in Galicia 101,908 people have the donor card; of these, 3,061 are new cards made in 2015 at the Transplant Coordination Office, and there is a 12% increase over this date until June 1st. We therefore want to thank the whole of society, also the professionals of the Greek hospitals, these results, because they are the ones that allow transplant numbers to be kept in Galicia, thanks to those 11 coordinators who are in the Greek hospitals, the patients, the receivers and, as I said, the family. And I also want to say that the new document already involved in the clinical history of advance wishes will make it easier to have more patients and that we can still improve these figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u345	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Da Eva Solla Fernández and five other Members of the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative, on the management carried out by the Government of Greece in the field of public health
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u346	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We're already at the last full session, and probably of legislation, and it was about balancing the state of public health. In seven years the People's Party has destroyed our public health, we've discussed it on many occasions, and I'm going to make a brief summary in the minutes I have. Budget cuts in nominal terms of 300 million euros, 1,795 professionals less; elimination of 20.5% of primary care resources; permanent elimination of 400 beds and systematic closure throughout the year, especially in summer and Christmas, and around 1,000 beds during these summer months, when they continue to increase, despite what you say, waiting lists. Vigo's PFI, which has already destroyed poor health in the Vigo area, with a cost of 1,400 million euros, with a hospital costing 450, with a contract full of non-compliances and with a cut of beds that allows you to continue to keep the multimillionaire concert with Povervisa; 90 million euros a year to a company that, in addition, allows you to fail to meet staff ratios, waiting lists and benefits. The hospitals of Ourense and Ferrol, delivered to Ferrovial for the management of their spaces and services; the commitment to equip Lucus Augusti, unmet; the high technology, privatized for eight years; the information management systems, new technologies, clinical history, electronic recipe, digital home and previous quote, absolutely privatized – we discussed this morning–. Mental health, practically abandoned; attention to drug addictions, abandoned, and suffocated the collectives that take care of; completely vertical functioning of their council. Total and absolute contempt in making decisions to the opinions of professionals, and it's more, even in some cases threats when they manifest themselves. Remunerations in the pharmacy, loss of universality in care; expansion of Montecelo, not done for seven years; and this morning they have finally announced that you abandon your fantastic project of the public-private hospital of Monte Carrasco. The CHUC, the Ferrol hospital, with an abandoned master plan. We have five floors with rooms that still have no bathroom – 21st century –; health centers that fall into pieces; transfers to Junta, zero during this term. I'd shoot without going to the audience. The 061 deficit, with workers and workers working in truly precarious conditions. Public health without coordination with Sergas, permissiveness due to non-compliance with the Act of Incompatibilities of some heads of service; transfers to private; attempts to privatize clinical management, sterilization and outpatient pharmacy of dispensation in hospital. Nausea management also in the treatment of hepatitis C, with two persons charged in your advice to whom you continue without letup. A sum goes on. Counsellor, what will you do and how justified it is to have left public health the Government of the People's Party in these conditions seven years later?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u347	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Counsellor's response.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u348	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Madam, I could start with a sentence that I brought in my previous speech, i.e., "launch an alarm campaign with false data and unknown interests in a catastrophic speech." This says a spokesman for the Andaluz Health Service to similar words you use. And you use and believe that this is reality, and what you really do is a sum of phrases that you use in demonstrations, in all kinds of political mobilizations, that try what you try, get to power, but you really don't know what day-to-day management is, you don't know Galician reality, you don't know the reality of health, and of course you won't be able to change it because we're going to continue to rule ourselves. [[Applause]] Your Honor, two months ago, May 11, in another parliamentary question, you were talking about the failure of the health model. Now, with a very similar exposition of motives, in which it mixes everything, it tells us of abandonment and uncertainty about the economic future. Once again, I can't in any way share your speech, alienated from reality and also catastrophic. I told you then and now I repeat to you that the health of the people of Galicia is not only a priority of the Government of Unity, but it is the first priority. The indisputable proof that health is the largest part of the budgets is that the budget percentage for health has risen to over 40% of the total of the Galician Union; it is the best indicator of this Government's commitment to the public health system. I've already believed you through objective figures that would manifest the substantial improvement in our assistance indicators that can never be mentioned as abandonment, rather the opposite. In 2015 we made 185,272 surgical interventions, almost 17,000 interventions more than in 2009. We managed to download the waiting list for patients with more severe pathologies, priority 1. Citizens who suffer from them wait less than 20 days to operate. The number of regular daily hospital consultations conducted in 2015 was 4,237,280, which is 460,000 more than in 2009. And the Greeks wait for less. In 2009, the average waiting time was 71 days, and now it's 51.4, almost 20 days less. Soon, next week, they'll have the updated data from June 30 this year, which is, as the president said, the best in the last few years. We have modernized our facilities in a very important way, despite the crisis we have suffered. We equipped and put into operation the new hospitals of Lugo and Vigo. We continue with the Plan Director of the Hospital Complex of the Coruña, and we began the expansion of the Hospital do Salnés, the Hospital da Costa and the Hospital de Ourense. We're working at the future hospital in Pontevedra, Ferrol and Conxo, and we're working in 36 health centers, 25 new centers already built and 11 reformed, with 9 others in construction and more in project. Thus, in 2016 there will be 7 out of every 10 Greeks who will count on their area of influence with a new or reformed health center. This is the abandonment of the People's Party with the Welsh health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u349	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u350	Thank you, President. Counselor, don't scare me of your class, what it really produces is quite contempt. You talk about mobilizations as if they were something despicable, and besides, obviously, there's evidence where you come from, because you're the one who doesn't know public health and has no idea how to manage it, because you haven't enjoyed most of the services. Unfortunately, as I am possibly personal, rather precarious, to what they threatened – just like my companions – if I didn't accept any work, for, obviously, I certainly know many more services than you, and I'm very likely to lack many still to know. In addition, you know that at least this woman had the decency of being in all hospitals – I think it's wrong – and in several of the health centers – which are very many – of our community talking to both the agencies and the workers. But since I'm not here to talk about myself, Counsellor, but to ask you for your management, and obviously for how you leave it, I have to remind you that in all autonomous communities – and it's not recent – the health budget represents between 30% and 40%; at all, always. It's historical, it's not like the Galician Union to invest any more. Moreover, I have just given you the specific data on health cuts, which accumulate 300 million euros in nominal terms; in real terms it's a lot more. But in addition, Counsellor, you leave a council without European funds for the construction of infrastructure, you answered yourself in the Health Committee; you leave, in addition, payment commitments for the PFI Vigo hospital, up to two legislates; and you leave the entire health budget committed, with all the cuts that will obviously come to us from Brussels, because you are not even able to manage the economy of our country and the state as a whole. Counselor, you deny the workers and workers the reality I just affirmed. Don't tell me, tell them. Tell the associations that work with the drug addictions that everything is all right, tell the mental health people, tell the hepatitis C people, tell those on the recruitment lists, tell those who have to double their shift, tell all the people who are on the waiting list. I don't know if we're going to manage public health or not, but what I'm sure is that you don't deserve to be in that chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u351	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Shut up. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u352	Obviously, I'm not in this chair because you want it, that's clear, and, of course, I have a lot more training and experience than you have for many years. So you're not going to teach me anything about Spanish health and Greek health. [[Murmurs.]] But look, there are no arguments, and when there are no arguments, you have to go to the sign. It's all there is. There's nothing else. [[Laughter]] We want a fair, sufficient and quality public health service used efficiently. Accomplishing this requires integrated action in the regulatory field of management, assistance, research and teaching. For this, it is necessary to transform the care model, from a reactive care model to a proactive model, whose main axes will be the promotion of health and the prevention and approach of chronicity, self-management and self-care of the disease, the promotion of active and healthy aging. We'll face all these remains with the new Sergas 2020 strategy. We will ensure the future of the system thanks to the efforts of professionals and managers working in the Welsh public health and the measures promoted by the Council, in general by the Government of the Union. I insist that the percentage of the health budget rose to more than 40% of the total of the Galician Union is the best indicator of this commitment to the public health system. Forget, Madam, what Andalucía devotes, which is EUR 900 per citizen dedicated to health. Galicia is among the first six, with 1,400 euros. That doesn't know him, this honourable Member doesn't know him. There's a commitment and there's going to be a commitment from the Galician Union. [[Murmurs.]] It is also important to stress that the best guarantee of the future is the rigor of the management of public accounts, of the money that the Greeks make at their disposal. That is why we meet the deficit marked by the European Union – of the few communities we have met – and that is why we now have a surplus of responsibility, which we are using to invest and improve health care. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] And, of course, I have an example of these days for you to know how Welsh health and other health care work. The construction of a new hospital in the Basque Health Service, after 34 years of transfers, was inaugurated a few days ago. After 34 years, the first new hospital, which is a comarcal, is inaugurated. 148 beds. After six years of work, it is inaugurated only for external consultations, and it will take more years and a half to make income and emergencies. [[Mrs. Solla Fernández speaks words that are not perceived.]] This is the health of another autonomous community; by the way, where parties similar to theirs can also govern, and of course have an important influence, but in Galicia we do the very serious things, we do hospital infrastructures, health centers, new services, and that's thanks to the involvement of the Chair of the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u353	Thank you, Counselor. Da María Terêcesa Paz Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the results of the measures promoted by the Central Government in relation to the situation of the milk sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u354	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor for the Rural Environment, The chance that the first question of the first full of the first legislation in which I have been in this Parliament was to me, and also the last question of the last full of the last legislation that I am going to be in this Parliament. But it's going further, the first question I asked was about the supertax that had just been decreed in relation to the German claws and gourds. Today we are not faced with a supertax, because today we do not have overproduction subject to sanctions, but we are still facing a situation in which our owners are living in which the supertax is applying to industries through abusive penalties in terms of prices and contractual relationships. Look, Counsellor, ten months ago, a pact was agreed in Madrid on the dairy sector. You know perfectly well that the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group has always disagreed with the Government, and with the Government of the State, in which this agreement was really useful to solve the problems of the dairy sector. We always told him that the day that some of those measures of this agreement had an impact on the contracts and bills of the gainees we would recognize that they had some kindness and that we were wrong. Ten months later, Counsellor, the yellow gloves are signing contracts at 27.5 cents, bearing in mind that, in addition, between 30% and 40% of their production are delivering it at the intervention price, in many cases less than 20, to 18 cents. Counsellor, you know, in addition, that many of our country's creditors suffer so much blackmail that, while they sign the contract with industry, they sign the waiver of that contract, because if there's no waiver, there's no contract. So, Counsellor, I ask you: do you still consider that the Ministry's agreement and the alleged measures that would give rise to that cord is the Fairabrás balsam for the dairy sector or do you intend to do something else to get the livestock and the livestock, to that strategic sector that is drowned, from the well in which it is submerged? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u355	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Reply by the Middle Rural Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u356	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Mrs. Tareixa, for it is also a pleasure for me to be in this last plenary to ask me this question, regardless of whether you and I both know for the first time what the reality of the dairy sector is and even though then each or every one has its own differences and we try to take management along quite different paths. As you well know, and as you well said, to deal with the difficult situation in the dairy sector – which is obvious that there exists and that no one has hidden it; the situation is complicated and aggravated since the summer of 2015, whose main cause was the disappearance of dairy quotas – the Ministry has drawn up a plan of measures for the dairy sector that culminated on 23 September 2015 with the signature of the so-called milk agreement, in order to achieve a final objective, and that objective is that the value chain of the dairy sector was more balanced and that ensured the sustainability and future of the industry's set of operators. At that time, and also later, many of the companies, cooperatives and agricultural associations that joined the agreement came from all areas of the chain, both of the distribution and of the industrial sector and of the producer sector. It's more, recently, the largest organization, the most representative of the Greek ensemble, has just signed it, so, so bad it shouldn't be, no matter where there are times when one decides, for one cause or another, to sign at a given time or another. I wish it had been from the beginning because that would make us all stronger. Since the signing of this agreement, a quarterly follow-up of the consequences of its implementation is being carried out by the Magram. The first is to say that, after the signing of the agreement, the distribution not only committed itself, but it was a reality to put value, value, milk on its linears, avoiding trivialization practices; what used to be customary now is simply an anecdote. While the prices of milk commodities and milk prices at European and world level continue to fall free, in Spain these prices have been met. But to keep doesn't mean we still agree, but they're marking the market those prices. In addition, at this time, approval was made by the Map of the model contract promoted by Inlac to provide legal security for raw milk transactions and regulate the object of the contract. Thanks to all this, I want to tell you that we were able to bring forward the Royal Decree that regulates the information system of milk manufacturers, the so-called Price Delivery Decree. So, no matter how much we don't agree with the price – we're not in Galicia, we're not in Spain, and there's no more to see prices at European and international level – we have to say that we are laying the foundations for a promising future of Greek milk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u357	Thank you, Counselor. Replica. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u358	Thank you, Mr. President. Counsellor, in the last few weeks, we have heard a lot of people talking to the Government of the Galician Union and the People's Party about overcoming responsibility. I'm not going to ask you for any surplus of responsibility, I'm just going to ask you for a plus of responsibility with regard to Mr. Milk, a plus so that as long as you stand in front of the Rural Council, regardless of whether the Government of Madrid and the Government of the Union are in office, you act. I'm not going to repeat the proposals from the Galician Nationalist Block, but they're still well known, because we've been in this House for many years, presenting appropriate proposals at every moment for what's been going on in the dairy sector. I'm just telling you that if a government in function can allow it to continue in the stream, or avoid an environmental impact report for Reganosa, it can well intensify inspections, well it can intensify controls and well it can intensify the dialogue within the sector to overcome this situation. And allow me, ladies and gentlemen... I do not think it would fail the dairy sector if the last minute of my speech I devote, first of all, to thank all Members and Members, of this and the two previous legislations, the work we have done among all of us, and above all I want to thank all the services of the House, starting with the officials, administrative services, legal services, etc., that would facilitate our work. I had the honour, which I think any Greek would envy me, to be able to serve the Greek people. I hope I have done it with humility; with correctness, with mistakes, but, in any case, with dedication.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u359	I don't know if there will be a reply, but the advisor has to close this question. Shut up. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u360	Thank you, President. Well, it's hard to have a replica after all this. I mean, they're always welcome for positive proposals. I've known Mrs Terixa for a long time, of course I've always been on a bench and her in another place, but I have to say that she was always interested in the rural environment, no matter how much she disagreed with some of the proposals. What I can say is that, of course, while I'm here, I'm going to work for and for the livestock sector, I'm going to work for and for the farm, with the measures that we can implement from Galicia and, of course, in coordination with the Ministry, and, as otherwise, with the European Commission. And no more, because I think it's all said, I just want to wish those who have vacations to enjoy them, because to me, as advisor to the countryside, I'm not going to enjoy vacations. Good night, and the saying, until we see each other around.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-07-13-DSPG162.u361	Before I suspend the session, I'm going to say that even here the ordinary plenary sessions of this legislation. And I, in the name of the Bureau and in the name of the services of the House, want to transfer my thanks to you for two or three things that I consider fundamental. So, without making a lot of noise, we were the Parliament that most worked out of Spain, that's the data. This House was the one that most legislative production has done in the context of the Spanish State, and that's thanks to you all. We are the Parliament that has succeeded in implementing – and we have been pioneers in that – the citizen participation. The first question was put here to the Government, and the first non-law proposal was approved here by 2,500 people. In this sense, we've been pioneers, and that's worth all of you. We are the most efficient Parliament in Spain. The cost per Member is the cheapest of all parliaments, but we are the ones who work the most. So I appreciate it. I wish them all luck. I am not going to make a long speech today, and besides almost, with certainty, that many will see us; and those who do not see us here, we will continue to see ourselves outside, which is what prevails above all. I want everyone to be healthy, that's the most important thing. Let's get the session up.
