ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u1	Go take your seats, please. [[Pause.]] Good morning. We started the session. There was no justification for this, and the agenda is published in the Official Bulletin of the Parliament of Galicia; therefore, we do not proceed to its reading. And let's start with the point first. Application for the establishment of a commission of inquiry, at the initiative of the parliamentary groups of the Alternative Galaga de Left, of the Nationalist Block Galego and Mixto, on contracts, conventions, grants or other administrative acts leading to the completion of public office in the hands of the Fesan Foundation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u2	In the course of the committee's creation debate there will be an initial round of five minutes for each group's proposal – in this case two groups will be involved, which is the Joint Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Galicia – the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Popular Parliamentary Group will have their time regulated, and in the reply will only intervene the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block by the requesting groups. We therefore begin the debate with the round of parliamentary groups. First of all, you have the floor of the Joint Parliamentary Group, your spokesman, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The Board of Auditors found irregularities in several Fesan courses, which is one of the major beneficiaries of the board's social grants and which has received 10 million aid from the German Government since 2009. In the two records examined by the Board of Auditors, the illegal use of the Gesan subsidiary was recorded to subcontract the courses and also to carry out quality control which should have been done by an unrelated external company. Gesan had as his sole administrator Manuel Rodríguez Sedano, the manager of Fesan. Interestingly, Gesan also received courses subsidized by the Labour Council, and at least one of these accounts also found irregularities. Why do you receive all these public aids to Fesan? The answer is in his relationship with the People's Party. Jaime Rodríguez-Arana Muñoz was his first president, and he is a former member of the People's Party, former director of the magazine REGAP, deputy secretary of the Ministry for Public Administrations, general director of INAP, and even the public newspaper qualified him as the spiritual guide of the Minister of the Interior, because Rodríguez-Arana directed Jorge Fernández's meditation and guidance group in Opus Dei. The current President Ángel Sampedro and the first President Rodríguez-Arana are co-authors of the book Galeguism, edited by the Union and Foesga. The latest accounts presented to Fezan coincide with the year in which the corruption network of Azetanet, in 2013, with which Fezan shared the contracts that assisted the Work Council, leading to Fezan more than four hundred thousand euros. The Board of Auditors itself detected the same irregularities in Fesan as those detected in Azetanet. What was secretary of the entity, Manuel Rodríguez Sedano, constituted the following year of Fesan's functioning post the Gesan commercial society, which in 2012 became the name of Versa Advisoryes. In the following year of Gesan's creation, Manuel Rodríguez Sedano also operates the EECS consultant, with an object similar to Gesan's and Fesan's. EEC had up to nine registered offices, some of which coincided with those of Gesan and More Attention, an entity also created by Rodríguez Sedano in 2005. One of the operators in the EECS and Gesan/Versa, Santiago Davila, launched in 2009 the company Davila Pérez Santiago, which soon renamed Hercules Projects and Studies, which opted for several joint ventures in competition with EECS. The Board granted at least four EEC contracts worth EUR 234,000, three of which were from the Labour Council between 2011 and 2012 and one from the Secretariat of Equality. The four contracts were negotiated without advertising; in two contracts the Union invited Hercules and the EECs, and the adjudicatory turned out to be the EECs. In another liquidation, work invited the three same companies and won the ENESIS again. In other words, we find ourselves with a group of companies with the same social object, with the same partners, with the same directors, who are setting up companies competing between them to obtain subsidies from the Galician Union, without any clarification at any time or why the Union draws these contracts without advertising, why it offers them to the same three companies that match with the same owners in their constitution, who have relations with each other, who have a direct relationship with the People's Party, who share seats, and there are many unanswered questions, besides having to clarify all the irregularities detected by the Board of Auditors, and who go from the absence of part of stocks to the lack of the realization of the contracts committed, or who are considered the president of the foundation as the support staff of the courses. He was hired to perform performances that affected, for example, the custody of files, the processing of professional accreditations, and he even had some help in promoting traditional dance, that is, he had help for objects that had nothing to do with Fesan. Therefore, in our view, it deserves a commission of investigation which clarifys both the granting of these grants and the call, the unadvertised competition of the three companies that are part of the same group and also share managers. For my part, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u5	Good morning. The question on which we are calling for the commission of inquiry in particular has been basically explained, and that allows me to go to the very best of the matter. This smells like the 9th chapter of the history of the looting of public administrations led by the People's Party. One more, gentlemen of the People's Party. You, on the right, have always wagered for the privatization of public services on the pretext of greater efficiency, but with the aim of looting public administrations and resources and enjoying the rotating doors comfortably. You, the defenders of the free market, live and live very well of the BOE and the DOG and more of their relations with political power when they cease to be in political power. The modus operandi is often similar to what we have already seen in many summaries, in the last summary of operation Zeta: people close to the People's Party use their relationships to get contracts, the provision of services on occasion is fraudulent or unearned, and also from time to time, sometimes some of the crumbs come back to fund the People's Party or to pay a monthly salary of 3,000 euros to the friend of President Pachi de Lucas, who paid those 3,000 euros simply with the quality of being very friendly of Mr. Feijóo. Fean is a pseudofoundation made up of people close to the People's Party outline that benefited between 2009 and 2013 from EUR 9.6 million in contracts and grants of all kinds. His first president was Jaime Rodríguez-Arana, as has already been said here, undersecretary of the Ministry of Public Administrations of the First Government Aznar; very aware of the policies that would be implemented by privatization of public services, and knew very well how the chiringuits should be set up to make that administration parallel to friends of the People's Party. He also directed the Galaga School of Public Administration in the Fraga era. He prepared perfectly the ground and then went for the private. And most important of all, which is not said here: spiritual advisor to Opus Dei also member Jorge Fernández Díaz, Minister of the Interior, who then hears voices from angels. This foundation has achieved all kinds of contracts. And another feature of this looting of public administrations is that they're companies "get everything"; companies "get everything" that they get a contract from a summer camp rather than a day center, that from a childhood school, etc. There's no specialization, there's no competition, there's no qualification, all you're looking for is the relationship with the public power and nothing else. That is to say, this smells like always: the capitalism of friends and end up turning these chiringuits of former high positions of the People's Party into a true parallel administration, for greater glory of the former high positions of the PP and the account as always of Juan Pueblo. It smells much more of this matter happening to a large extent in contracts and adjudications of the Labour and Welfare Council almost in the same years, a little later overshadowed, of Operation Zeta. In the last few years, many are the cases we have heard from workers and users, the main beneficiaries of the business that do impunity on our backs. Services are externalized for, in theory, being managed efficiently by specialists, promoting competition and improving services. And what we've seen lately is that it's forming a parallel administration, which is becoming the set of companies that hire multiple and varied contracts, covering more and more sectors, focusing increasingly on less and less hands, heading towards a path of a private oligopolie control of public services. It is the great looting, and they pretend to follow as if nothing, gentlemen of the People's Party. And to clarify everything, up to the latest consequences, what the indications tell us, we want this research commission to be formed and to provide us with information that usually spares this government, and that we also start a path of regeneration. The People's Party, the corruption party, can't regenerate anything, they'll have to come and do it. And so we will also know whether or not the intensity of the use of the current rotational doors of members of the Government of Greece, which, while we do not have proof, will not say, but that it will be verified in the case of the commission of inquiry and that there is a Parliament that takes seriously a commission of investigation, and not as the majority people take the Commission of inquiry, for example, of the savings boxes of Galicia, a real shame and a real scandal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u6	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Last Thursday, last week, in the press round after the Council of the Union, Mr President asked about this matter, we could say – at best I misuse the term, Mr President corrected me because he knows – a Freudian lapsus. I mean, when they ask you about Fesan, Mr. President went out and associated Fesan Foundation with a foundation that funds Podemos with Venezuelan resources, and therefore since its interpretation, illegal, and as a very bad thing. Why did Mr. President associate one thing with another? Mr. President had many ways to get out. I could say that there is nothing, I could say that it will be investigated, I could say that it competed with Fezan according to the law... Finally, it had a whole wide fan, but curiously the subconscious – these things Freud tells through the interpretation of dreams – led him to associate a foundation that irregularly finances, according to him, the other political formation with a foundation of the country we'll see in which it ends. Of course this has already been patented by Manuel Fraga, who said that the children of prominent families had more ease of access to certain positions and certain positions, because they are sons of prominent families, in this case of the People's Party. And so, because memory is fragile, it ends up in places of social relevance "because I value it" a lot of people. Do you remember that lady who was carrying a newspaper at the Philatelic Forum? Sure, because "she was worth it." Or recently Mrs. Pilar of Bourbon, that she too is worth it; she places petitions and exercises charity here, but, on the other hand, she tries to save her taxes, because that doesn't seem to be charity, because "she's worth it." And here we get the same thing. And Fesan is a case of book: order people – who were said before – who were part of the right-wing governments in both the state and the Autonomous Community. People who are considered to be called to lead large social projects in favour of "disadvantaged". Interestingly, people who don't risk any eye because they do everything through their contacts and with public funding. I mean, those who pay taxes here and they don't have accounts in Panama, but they don't put a table in the Open Square to make public charity, those are the ones who finance these kinds of people's power-related projects to make "social politics." And, of course, people who maintain an extraordinary relationship with the Union and the People's Party, even some of them are militants. By the way, these people deal disloyally with the private initiative they're doing in this field. Private initiative that doesn't have contacts, nor the facility to get subsidies, and that even has to pay taxes to fund the charitable projects of all these people. That's the reality. And it's amazing in a right-wing government that defends free competition, that defends that capital itself only redistributes the rule, but, no, here it is collected from the capital to finance people who are unfairly competing against the capital. A contradiction someone might explain to us. The PP spokesman will come out here – and something has already brought Mr. Rueda, who in this is a specialist – to call against everyone. There it goes for everyone. Okay, perfect. Maybe he'll be wrong, but he'll be out of this Venezuelan gallery, Andalusian and I don't know, even the holy argumental mantra of the People's Party, which seems to be a new advocate. But this is the same scheme that we've already seen, and it's already mentioned here: Operation Zeta, achievement to which all the Greeks have paid for the night and maintenance at the official residence of Monte Pio, and that until today no one has explained to us what their role was. That's right, said a gentleman who charged 3,000 euros every month for that, for getting, for opening doors. And in fact there are cross-posts and messages. It is not known whether or not some training courses have been conducted. There is a gentleman who says something very serious, which has not yet been denounced by the People's Party. He says that part of these public resources was to fund the People's Party in the Coruña. And if you know, no one has denounced Mr. Gerardo Crespo, because this is very serious. If it's true it's very serious, if it's a lie too, because if it's a lie they're questioning and slandering Galicia's first party, the party that supports the German Government. And we can't see that you've been reported. There's another gentleman, the president of Caipe, who told us last week in a press round: we had to give it to Gerardo Crespo, because we were told by the officials of the Galician Board that we had hired him. And do it along with your lawyer, eh! I mean, he's not a gentleman who's been drinking a few drinks and he's gone. No, that assisted lawyer tells these things. Operation Chair, three-quarters of it. We have wondered if the Director General of Youth ever worked in the company of Lalín that is being investigated by alleged courses that have not been held, and we still know nothing, because here the transfer is in both directions: from the Government to foundations and foundations or from friendly companies to the Government. Fasan, created by senior officials of Aznar and Fraga governments. Around this foundation are set up instrumental companies that are even summoned in unadvertised and negotiated procedures, and the three represented by the same subject. Long live free competition! The whole of the German Government participates, some to the greatest and others to the lesser extent. Of course, the palm takes it to the Labour and Social Affairs Council, millions of euros. But by the way, all the departments that depend on Mr. Rueda, although it seems that with modest amounts, but all those who depend on the presidency, have given him some kind of help. In an official response from the Galician Board to this group: up to 2013 almost seven million euros in all the Greek administrations; today we don't know, we've asked. Our group, since it has come out in the media, information about this company, because people and companies have arrived who have moved us that inspections are not the same in the Fesan training courses that in other training courses, there are even formal complaints from the inspectors. Sometimes day-care workers or children's schools were kindly invited, in case an unplanned inspection fell, to which they held the theoretical position of students. That's reported in our group, they've come to complain very bitterly. The Education Council to approve titles and authorize certain teachings – we are speaking in many cases of higher cycles of FP in specialties that require a very expensive equipment, all that has to do with orthodontics and health – well, because some of them have to report to the Council when they have been protesting for the ease that is given to approve and authorize those of Fésan, and theirs at best have been waiting for a year, what they told them was: they have to denounce you because we don't know what to do anymore. All this is day by day, our daily bread. Well, maybe for the majority group this doesn't deserve an investigation commission, I don't know. What I would deserve is the same diligence as Mr. Rueda had with other supposed plots, which mobilized the whole of Junta to inspect, and then remained in nothing. Maybe here we should also mobilize the administration's resources to see everything that came out to investigate what's going on there. Of course, at the end we come to a conclusion, and we will debate it here at another time in this plenary session: why did the Council of Galicia, for example, not resort to the brutal cuts in Mr. Montoro's competences, which the Constitutional has just declared, that is, unconstitutional for the municipalities to manage social affairs, basic health, etc., etc.Is that what you're talking about? Because the plan is to give it to these people, to the children of prominent families, who risk nothing, Mr. Rueda. It's the administration you finance, and it's funded by the taxes that you tax on the basic services. We are going to support this commission of inquiry. I don't know what the People's Party will do because it's who decides, who has the majority, legitimately; now, Mr. Rueda, although your group decides it's not worth investigating, you have more than enough resources to investigate what's behind this, and above all you can explain to us why your department is so generous with these and so angry with others.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Tellado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u9	Thank you, President. "I have a custom, dear Sancho, that, when I see the ass coming, from far away I perceive myself not to be confused with the kicks that could lead me; therefore, my faithful squire, look on the floors, and if seeing it twisted and badly gazed at you tearing away without composure make you aside, that of these with bad idea it is better not to have contact. And you have to be careful with such a bottle... And be careful, friend Sancho, who are the same ones who then charge with Berberishes and others who later submit to their peoples." That's how Don Quixote told Sancho in a masterpiece of our literature, El Ingenoso Hidalgo Don Quixote de la Mancha, a classic by Miguel de Cervantes who keeps as he sees full vigency over four hundred years later. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Group, our left bankmates are actually being twisted, and badly faced with this request for a commission of inquiry, with a bad idea and without composure against us. It's all good for them to oppose this government. Mrs. Soneira, we see full after all that you like to talk about corruption, that you like to talk about suspicions, that you like to talk about intrigues, of the Texmenxes. But I'm telling you more: you don't need to leave the house to talk about these matters, change the insinuations by assertions. If you want to talk about corruption, you can tell us not about alleged corruption, you can talk about alleged corruption fully investigated by the judges of our country. And this one investigated by the judges of our country is in their own party, you don't have to invent anything at all. You know, Mrs. Soneira, that they are without a general secretary in the Socialist Party, and you know why; because they weighed ten charges on him. You also know why you had to go to the previous secretary-general, the previous secretary-general of the former; also for imputations. You know what happened to the former president...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u10	Silence! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u11	...of the Socialist Party, Mr. Orozco, who is accused, who also had to leave. So, finally, Mrs. Soneira... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u12	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u13	...I think you socialists are forced to handle what we are all equal. But it's not true, Mrs. Soneira, we're not all the same. And I say more: I don't think Mr. Abel Knight...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u14	Silence! Wait a minute, please. Excuse me, Mr. Tellado. You're Mr. Tellado in the use of the word, you've already spoken. Silence, please, that you have your turn too.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u15	I don't think, Mrs. Soneira, that Mr. Abel Caballero shares this strategy of his sowing winds; it won't be that you are reaping more storms than the Socialist Party already has. So don't come to generate distrust, and unfounded and interested mistrust. From the People's Group, we have the feeling that political despair of you, the proponent groups and the group that supports you, leads them to make an opposition as dirty as torturer. You come to question the government, but also the officials who work in the autonomic administration. You question the legality of competitive competition procedures, and you question the adjudication procedures in which recruitment technical tables, where they are officials, are not politicians. That's what you just did in your speeches. And, therefore, you come here to question the neutrality, professionalism and independence of the officials of the Galician Union, and in particular those who depend on the Legal Counsel, the legal body and the General Intervention of the Galician Union. That's what you guys are doing. We don't share that way of doing politics that you have. You said I had to go to Venezuela for explanations. No, we have to go to Galicia's board for explanations. We want to shed light where you want it to be dark. Look, we're going to pick up a data: in 2008, you were ruling, you know how much Fesan billed the autonomic administration? The amount of EUR 1.6 million. We're going to take the last year of the People's Party Government, in 2015, how much did Fesan bill for Galician Union? About 624,000 euros. Caramba!, Mrs. Soneira, caramba!, gentlemen of the opposition, with the government bipartisan the company you are talking about tripled your billing with the Council of Galicia, three times more than now; the triple, lords: 600,000 now, with you 600,000. I suppose in the replica shift you'll give some sort of explanation about this. And I don't know if following your theories, ladies and gentlemen, if we have to act with the same mistrust that you act, if we have to act with mistrust in relation to Mr. Ricardo Varela and if we have to act with mistrust in relation to Mr. Anxo Quintana, who were the contractors of that company. You will be suspicious – I suppose – of Mr. Ricardo Varela's triple and Mr. Anxo Quintana's triple, of what they distrust the current Government of the Unity of Galicia. Following your theories, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if we have to be suspicious of the contracts that Martiño Noriega, mayor of Teo, has helped this company that you want to investigate; we must therefore be suspicious of Mr Martiño Noriega. We'll have to be suspicious of Mr Orozco, who has also helped Lugo to contract this company. Fuck! And we have to be suspicious, therefore, if we follow his theories. But I believe not, ladies and gentlemen, for we doubt no adjudication, neither that of Mr. Martiño Noriega, nor that of Mr. Orozco, nor that of the current Government of Galicia. I understand that you do, that you prefer to doubt the hirings all over the world. Therefore, the Galego Nationalist Block will also doubt the contracts in Pontevedra that made that company Mr. Fernandez Lores, mayor of the Galego Nationalist Block. I suppose they'll explain the contracts they've given you. There's a plot, ladies and gentlemen, you've discovered corruption! I think you should act more strictly and seriously. You can't doubt the governments of the Galician Union, nor the officials of the Galician Union, which is what you have done so far. There's no Carrumeiro here, ladies and gentlemen, the Galego Nationalist Block, there's no case like the Torrado Furniture. Don't you remember those cases? Ah!, we don't want to talk about these cases anymore, but this is not a Carrumeiro and this is not a Mobiles Torrado, this company is named badge that in year and half billed 600,000 euros for the Galego Consortium of Equality and Wellness, all well party in forty contracts. Forty contracts a year and a half with the company Mobiles Torrado, all of them – you have to say, eh! – in direct adjudications of the Bipartite, with negotiated and unadvertised procedures. That's an example, which we certainly don't want to follow. [[Murmurs.]] You were talking about training. See, the case of the Fesan courses was investigated by the Board of Auditors, these employment training programs developed in the years 2010 and 2011, and, indeed, the Board of Auditors detected a number of irregularities. The same deficiencies as the Board of Auditors in the same report also collect in the courses developed by the foundation of the IGC –pola Forga –, by Forega, by Forem –of Workers Commissions – by UGT and also by the Confederations of entrepreneurs. Indeed, the Board of Auditors detected all those irregularities, all those deficiencies. But you just don't tell me everything, that report from the Board of Auditors was raised to the Court of Auditors for scrutiny. You know that, and you know that the Court of Auditors has challenged that report. And, therefore, let me read to you a letter sent by the Court of Auditors, by the Court of Auditors Prosecution Section, sent to the Board of Auditors dated 9 March 2016, on the courses you question, which has run that company during the years 2010 to 2011. The writing of the Court of Auditors, of which you do not want to speak here because if you break down all your argument, says the following: "In relation to preliminary examinations No. 109/1525, in the field of the self-employed public sector, report on the control of training programmes for employment, years 2010-2011, Foundation for Studies and Analysis, Fesan, Galicia, communicates to you for your knowledge the archives of them by car of 22 December 2015." Filed by the Court of Auditors. What you're here to do is to question the honorability of a government and the officials who work in the service of the public service. It would be a way of doing politics, remixing the containers in order to destabilize a government, destabilizing an administration to try to take out political cuts! That's what you guys are trying to do. And that's why we are going to do it is to listen to the Knight of the Sad Figure when he said that: "I have a custom, dear Sancho, that, when I see the ass coming, I can see from far away that I can not be confused with the kicks that I can get; therefore, my faithful squire, look at you on the floors, and if I see them twisted and badly seen you take away without constipation make you aside." That's exactly what we're going to do. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what, you continue with that strategy. Slowly please you do Galicia, weakly please make you the image of politics, and weakly please make you the image of this camera, which is at the service of the Greeks, not at the service of your parties. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u16	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. Replica, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to borrow from Mr. Tellado the literature that touches today in this plenary and I'm going to say that "with the church we've met, friend Sancho." In this case it is repeated again: The Crown, Opus, financing the People's Party... and it is possible, Mr. Tellado and ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, that you do not want to investigate precisely this matter so that the name of the so revered Mr. Romay Beccaria, who is always behind all the chanchos linked to the financing of the People's Party, will not come out here again. It's funny, Mr. Tellado, that you with the intervention, not as a container, but as a garbage truck, which you just made from this stage, come here to accuse the opposition groups of generating distrust, lack of rigor and lack of seriousness. Look, Mr Tellado, that you bring here a report from the Court of Auditors as a principle of authority to justify that there is no case, when the Court of Auditors for more than twenty-five years has seen no case in the financing of the People's Party, which is now being investigated and even tried with the opening of an oral trial in more than one case by the courts of justice, it is still picturesque. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a very clear case of what the Galego Nationalist Bloc, when the failed Commission on Corruption was held in this Parliament, considered that it was essential aspects to study by that commission, which was how they ended up by deriving large amounts of public money for its management by private companies and entities, and we put a number of areas on which the emphasis should be placed. And in this case that we bring here today to investigate, they compete precisely three of these risk areas: subsidies and agreements, public procurement and privatization of public services. And through that route, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, they were cut from 2011 to 2014 about 7.5 million euros to the Fésan company and the amateurs. And if we count 2009 and 2010, monitored by the Board of Auditors, 9.6 million euros. It is EUR 9.6 million plagued with irregularities – as has already been said here – in a company that manages a child's school as a day centre, which gives training courses, which, by the way, manages help for the unemployed who then does not even meet the recruitment commitments of those unemployed. We are, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, facing a clear matter where two things are mixed up: the oldest practices of alleged political corruption with that caciquism 4.0 which is fashioning the People's Party, which is that people linked to their party end up being those who manage and get much of those public resources. And, Mr. Tellado, you, the People's Party, when you question your political decisions here, both you and I have to talk about the privatization of health and deterioration of public services and education, as in this case of corrupt practices that have taken place since the administration, they always stood behind public employees. We don't want public employees to be investigated here, we want the political decisions of the public administration to be investigated. Because you'll have to remember that in the Welfare Council you've already had to resign a director general, precisely the one about Training. And here we are again talking about training courses and substantial amounts related to the training resources that are under suspicion, and you still do not consider it necessary to investigate what has been going on all these years in Mrs Mato's department, not with Mrs Mato's officials, but with Mrs Mato and the political charges that Mrs Mato has placed in front of those responsibilities. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, I haven't talked to the rest of the proposed groups, but I'm sure they'll accept if you want to make an amendment in your voice to the motion for a resolution extending the investigation from 2005. I'm sure the Socialist Party doesn't have any problems either. If your problem is to ask the Bipartite for explanations...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u19	...we are willing to have the investigation of this department, of these courses, of the adjudications and of the proceeds of money to Fesan be done since 2005, because we do not have anything to hide. And here those who have something to hide are the ones who came behind the officers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u20	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u21	...those who stood behind the unions, who already know that Mr. Rueda is an expert in going to inspect the headquarters of trade unions, but then when it comes to raising carpets in his departments, he's much more frightened.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u23	And, therefore, the end, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, saying who doesn't want to investigate, is who evidence he has much to hide. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. At the end of the debate, we proceeded to the vote on the request for the commission of inquiry to be set up. Voting of the request for a commission of inquiry, on the initiative of the GGs. PP. of the Alternative Glaga de Left, the Nationalist Block Galego and Mixto, on contracts, agreements, grants or other administrative acts that caused public charges to end in the hands of the Fesan Foundation. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 40. The result of the vote is negative. The request for this investigation commission is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u25	Let's turn to agenda item 2, which corresponds to appearances. Mr Advocate General F.G. Jacobs delivered his Opinion at the sitting of the Fifth Chamber on 22 October 2015.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u26	Mr. Valeriano Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. I compare today to inform the plenary of the Greek Parliament of the closing of the fiscal year 2015 and of the fulfilment of the objective of budgetary stability. I would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction because among all of us we were able to fulfill the public deficit one more year; a success that is not from the Government, but is a success from Galicia. Galicia is proof that stability, seriousness, rigour and good management give their fruits, and that, contrary to what has been heard on many occasions in this chamber, compliance with the public deficit is not a trap to grow. And this success lies in that Galicia today has its own model of growth. A growth that allows us to leave behind the economic crisis and that is not based on spending more than we have entered, but on growing from stability and rigour to consolidate healthy growth, ultimately, to grow better. Ladies and gentlemen, Galicia has been able to achieve what so far seemed very difficult to achieve: to grow at the highest rate of the last eight years, at the same time as reducing the deficit and not increasing the debt. Let's see how this is possible. They will remember that the Government has brought to this chamber the 2015 budgets to continue to meet the objective of budgetary stability, to continue to prioritize above all social expenditure, to strengthen investment, to reduce financial expenditures and to implement selective tax reductions to favour families and businesses on the one hand, and to encourage the collection of taxes linked to economic reactivation. The challenges of these priorities were to strengthen policies that promote the creation of net employment and the consolidation and intensification of economic recovery and growth. And, ladies and gentlemen, once the exercise is closed, it is confirmed that these objectives have been achieved. Galicia met in 2015 – another year – the public deficit target. We prioritized spending on health, education and social services. Galicia led the investor effort, reduced the interest on debt payments and recovered the collection of taxes linked to economic reactivation. This behavior has been translated into that in 2015 Galicia has re-created net employment, and has had a growth that has overflowed our forecasts, with the greatest dynamism since before the economic crisis. Let's see this for the kid. Galicia once again fulfilled the public deficit, with much effort by all the Greeks and the Greeks, but Galicia once again fulfilled the objective of budgetary stability, and made it one of the only three communities that adjusted to the agreed figure. Furthermore, Galicia was the most autonomous one that has reduced the deficit in the last year, from 1% of the year 2014 to 0.57% of 2015, below 0.7% of the limit authorized by the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. In 2015 we were able to achieve a significant increase in income by three fundamental routes: by bringing closer to the system of autonomous financing, by recovering, for the first time – as I have already done – income from taxes linked to economic reactivation – and this dynamism is key because it shows that recovery increasingly reaches more families, lords; we encourage taxation, increases the number of operations linked to transmissions and consequently increases the collection – but also, thirdly, for better management with greater effort in the execution of European funds and with greater efficiency in the execution of the FCI. And also with savings in the payment of interest for the restructuring of our debt portfolio and being able by the state to enable a system to measure Galicia as a fulfilling community that saves money and keeps our financial autonomy. All of this has enabled us to reconcile compliance with the public deficit target with the highest investor spending, at the head of Spain, as we shall soon see. We also prioritized social spending. Non-financial expenditures were executed at 105,3 % on the budget, 4,5 % more than in 2014. And we prioritize the social content, because it is 80.3% of the expenditure executed. In chapter I the expenditure grows because, on the one hand, we paid half of the extra welcomed by the Central Government in 2012 as soon as possible legally. And it was a very important amount, about 105 million euros that we could deal with by the solvency of our accounts. In addition, on this same April payroll, public employees will receive another 25%, and the total refund will be completed in September. This solvency also allows you to expand your seniority days and offer young people the hope of reaching a public job with market offers for the Administration: more than 2,600 this year 2016. On the other hand, because we spent 17 million euros more than in 2014 to increase the number of substitutes for staff in trials, hospitals, health centres and social services centers. In chapter II, the increase was in this case of 5%, essentially motivated by two causes: to treat hepatitis C patients for the first time, allocating 77 million euros to cover their treatment – a fair but very important effort that did not prevent us from fulfilling the public deficit – and we also compensate for the 24 million euros as a result of the increase in the type of VAT for certain health products. Without these two paragraphs we would be able to lower chapter II by 1.1%. And in chapter IV we run 100 percent of the initial appropriations and prioritized shares with additional 4 million euros reinforcements for universities, another 4 million for the acquisition of school materials and 5 million for free education. Galicia led the investor effort. In chapter VI we increased real investment by 43%, i.e. 224 million euros more. And in chapter VII the increase was almost 10%, 58 million euros more. Therefore, together with both investment chapters, the increase over 2014 was 25 points and more than 280 million euros. This investment bet made Galicia the autonomous community that made a greater investor effort in 2015, allocated 14.6% of the available investment expenditure, almost twice as much as the average of the autonomous communities. We also reduce interest on debt payments. In chapter III, we managed to reduce the financial expenditure by 15%, which I suppose the Greeks saved EUR 56 million in the payment of interest that allowed a greater margin of manoeuvre to strengthen production expenditure. We have an additional 56 million euros thanks to a better management of the debt portfolio, not to be indebted above the authorized one and to be able from Galicia to demand that the State enable a suitable instrument for us as a fulfilling community, the Financial Facility Fund, which allows us to save money to the Greeks without losing financial autonomy. We were also able to recover the taxes linked to economic reactivation. Tax revenues from the tax yields have increased by almost 7% in the last year to more than EUR 512 million, especially for the recovery, for the first time since the crisis, of taxes linked to economic reactivation. Capital transmission revenues increased by 19% – more than 28 million – and documented legal acts by more than 13% – more than 10 million –; in total, 40 million more. This good behaviour of these taxes amounts to good management of European funds, with income that grew above 13%, and that of the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which did so in 143% when it was able to execute 105 million euros, twice the budget, and thus more than double that executed in 2014. And with this budget execution and fulfilling the public deficit, we were able to achieve the two goals we set ourselves, which were to re-create net jobs and consolidate and intensify economic growth, which – as I say – has overflowed our forecasts. Galicia closed in 2015 with 41,000 unemployed less and 32,000 more busy than the previous year, and managed to lower the unemployment rate by 3 points. We know that this decline in unemployment is not enough and that we still have many Greeks in unemployment, but we have managed to reverse the situation, from destruction to job creation. Galicia intensified its economic growth in 2015 and grew at the pace of Spain. In addition, if we analyze the quarter-to-quarter evolution, Galicia is having a steady growth and increasing pace. This reflects the recent INE data, which places GDP growth at 3.2 % – at the same level as Spain – and which ratifys what we have been defending since the German Government, which 2015 was the year in which Galicia's economic recovery accelerated. We had a behavior of the main economic indicators – such as industrial production index, service sector activity index, retail trade or exports – better than in Spain as a whole. But, despite that, we always wanted to be cautious, perhaps on this ultra-discreet occasion – as I said during the current budget presentation –. We will continue to analyze the behavior of the indicators because it is appropriate to review the forecasts upwards, but always maintaining caution, because we are aware that uncertainty about the Government of Spain may have undesirable effects on the consolidation of economic recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, this remarkable improvement in economic growth and this progressive and continuing improvement in the labour market in Galicia has been possible by matching the autonomous accounts and not spending on what we have entered. Was it easy? No, it was very difficult, but Galicia demonstrated more than a year with strict and serious policies, it is possible to meet the public deficit, and to do so by prioritising social spending and leading the investor effort. Was it positive? Yes, no doubt. Galicia has achieved what seemed very difficult to achieve and what no other autonomous community has achieved: to grow significantly at the same time as reducing the deficit and not increasing the debt. Between the easy way to spend what we didn't have and demand that we be financed, we chose the hardest way, the best way to spend. We demonstrate that we can spend more on reducing the deficit and without being indebted. Galicia was in 2015 an example of solvency and growth, a mirror in which the rest of autonomous communities look. And Airef corroborates in his last report that again this year 2016 Galicia will be one of the few communities that will be able to meet the public deficit again. Ladies and gentlemen, meeting the public deficit is not only getting a number or a good note, it has positive consequences for all the Greeks and the Greeks both in the present and in the future. Because by meeting the public deficit we owe ourselves less, we have released resources to strengthen productive expenditure and for health, for education, for social services. In addition, if we control the deficit, we not only have more resources in the present, but also in the future, because we assume less financial burdens. One argument corroborates this: if Galicia followed the same evolution that the set of communities would now have more than EUR 3,000 million in debt, which would cost more than EUR 85 million annually in financial expenditure. Or, in other words, if Galicia had the same behavior as the average of the autonomys, we would have to give up 85 million euros of productive expenditure to pay the interest on the debt. Besides, fulfilling the public deficit has more advantages for all of us and for all of the Greeks, it allows us to maintain our financial autonomy, make the decisions that benefit us the most and that are not others that decide for us. It allows to maintain the solvency of the autonomous community, it allows to generate trust and credibility, trust and credibility that translate into investments, as entrepreneurs perceive Galicia as an attractive and secure place for their investments. And it allows us to strengthen social spending, because we pay less interest on debt and devote more resources to health care, education and social services. This deficit control strengthens social spending – last year in more than 280 million euros – allows investment to be encouraged, because in 2016 we have more than 14% of the budget allocated to this chapter, and allows us to pay the biggest tax reduction in Galician history so that today 98.5% of the taxpayers pay less IRPF, that 99% do not pay the tax on successions and donations and those who wage to dynamize the rural environment benefit from zero taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, the collective effort of the Greeks, which allows us to meet the public deficit year by year, already allows us to have a reputational advantage as a community, but also has to have an economic reward. It was already in 2015, the year in which Galicia's compliance resulted almost 150 million euros additional to meet the public deficit, and you will have to have it back this year. If in 2015 we had economic compensation for meeting the public deficit, for this year we will also demand the same from the Government of Spain. In no case will we tolerate that Galicia, as a fulfilling community, can suffer any penalty; it is more – I insist – we demand economic compensation. I therefore hope to have the support of all parliamentary groups to make this demand before the Government of Spain. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the model of Greek growth that we seek, in the path of healthy growth, with control over deficit and debt. Recomplying the public deficit in 2015 has also kept the debt control in place. This continuous control places Galicia, which before the crisis was among the most indebted communities, among the least indebted, with 5.6 points less than half in debt ratio/GDP. Galicia is the autonomous community in which it has reduced its debt by 2015, and this control will allow it to begin the necessary reduction of its debt ratio. During the recession we increased 10 points by spending on health, education and social services, policies to which we dedicate 8 out of 10 euros. Now, starting economic recovery and income improvement, we're still shielding the percentage of social spending. As far as the investor effort is concerned, Galicia has always maintained in recent years among the communities with the greatest investor effort, which was especially important in 2015, the year in which –reitero – it was the one that led this chapter in Spain. Galicia, as in the last few years, continued in the past exercise as one of the administrations that paid its suppliers with greater speed. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot left to do, but we think we're going the right way. Precisely along the way, as Galicia is a fulfilling, solvent community, with serious and rigorous accounts, we are already ready to execute an expansive budget, with a tax drop, job creation and investment to grow, to add all citizenship to economic recovery. And we will do so with the biggest tax reduction in Galician history, to increase citizens' available income and encourage consumption, with policies that deepen the recovery of the labour market, increasing the twice as much as budgeting resources to promote job creation, with a complete package of social measures to bring recovery to all, with opportunities to those who need it most, and with a boost in investment. And together with this expanding 2016 budget, we have designed Galicia's roadmap for the medium term, the 2015-2020 Strategic Plan, a country document which is in parliamentary process and which we will have the opportunity to debate in the coming weeks and which guarantees that there will be no improvisation. In addition to an expansive budget and a strategic plan, Galicia now has several strengths to consolidate economic recovery and job creation, strengths that in a set characterized by political and institutional uncertainty, undoubtedly constitute important comparative advantages over other territories. Galicia is an example of institutional stability in Spain; we must take advantage of it. Galicia is solvent, of the few autonomous communities that maintain their financial autonomy intact; we have to take advantage of it. Galicia can exercise its self-government in full; we must take advantage of it. Galicia is reliable, serious, credible and trustworthy; we have to take advantage of it. And these strengths are translating into positive data during the first few months of 2016. In the first quarter, the creation of commercial societies in Galicia grew at a rate of 15%. Tax revenues in Galicia are registering good behavior. The industrial production index has grown by 8% in the first two months, and Galicia is among the most evolved autonomies. Galicia is the community in which the invoicing of the service sector increased most at the beginning of 2016, five points above the Spanish average. The latest known evidence of employment behaviour also indicates that unemployment is slightly higher in Galicia than on average. Three points grow the homes that arrive easily at the end of the month, although there are still many, many, many, those who do so with difficulty. And the "guess card" of 100 euros a month already has 1,000 beneficiaries and 2,500 applications. I could go on with more examples, but I also want to pretend that there are risks beyond Galicia, such as the political and institutional uncertainty in Spain, which can trump these good expectations at the beginning of the year. And the first indicator of this uncertainty we already know: it's lowering confidence. The latest consumer confidence index of the CIS indicates that in March it dropped 2.6 points, which means its third consecutive decline after last December it reached record optimism levels, since this series was drawn up since 2004. That is why it is key to take advantage of the institutional stability that approaches the Government of Greece at a time when Galicia is growing at a rate prior to the crisis, Galicia creates increasing employment, Galicia fulfils the objective of budgetary stability and will continue to reduce the public deficit, Galicia lowers its debt ratio, Galicia continues to save on interest in strengthening productive spending, Galicia continues among the communities that pay more swiftly, Galicia leads the investor effort, Galicia lowers taxes, Galicia maintains its financial autonomy and exercises its self-government in full. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, this government has a clear strategy and a definite course, much remains to be done, but much has already been done. With the collective effort of citizenship, Galicia today has more future. We'll never fall into self-comprehensiveness, but if we think it's fair to put into effect the whole path that has been going on until now. Since the German Government we have contributed to this good path with a serious and rigorous budget execution, which prioritizes the important one and seeks to make the most of every euro we have. Finally, the budget execution found that Galicia met the objectives set out in 2015. Galicia has fulfilled the public deficit again. Expenditure on health, education and social services was the priority. Galicia has been at the head of the communities in investment effort, we have reduced the payment of debt interest and managed to dynamize the economy, with selective reductions that allowed for greater collection. We thus consolidate economic growth and create net jobs again, in line with accounts. Galicia has a model of growth, a healthy growth to grow better, taking advantage of that we already have an expanding budget and a serious and rigorous planning in the medium term, as is the Strategic Plan 2015-2020. And we believe it is very positive that in 2015, one more year, Galicia was an example and a mirror in which the rest of autonomous communities are looking at because they have achieved what so far seemed difficult to achieve: a solid growth, consistent with the further decrease in the public deficit affected by any autonomy, and being the community in which debt has decreased the least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u28	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u29	Thank you, President. I, Counselor, really don't know how the world is, astonished by the achievements of Galicia and the Faijóo Government, does not place us at one place, one in Washington, the other in Brussels. We are, really, that you don't kiss in your mouth because you can't, you're in love, and that's amazing. I believe that in Germany they are asking Feijóo to change nationality so he can be President of Germany in the face of tremendous successes. Actually, I don't know if it's a landslide, if it's because he thinks that the Greeks and the Greeks are idiots and we don't... we know what's going on in our country, but, of course, it was pathetic to hear about how our country's situation is. [[Murmurs.]] But it is also – it is even more pathetic – that the minister blames the autonomous communities and social security, because social security, ladies and gentlemen, has nothing to do with the central government, eh!, it is not the central government's responsibility to have social security in the situation in which it is. But it's already the big deal that the counselor, in addition, collects that the sick and sick of hepatitis C are the ones who have ended up bothering us. Indecent, indecent, because you understand the solidarity of the system as charity; so all the measures that take are charitable measures, which must have been proposed to them from Opus Dei, because it is not understood that these can be political measures. But you have forgotten – the minister has forgotten, too – when he talks about the problems of the Greek economy and the state economy, about the weight of corruption. He did not talk about the weight of corruption, which is already taxed by the National Securities Market Commission at EUR 48,000 million, i.e. 4.5% of GDP, i.e. more than 4.2 reduction in the deficit that had been agreed with Brussels. So in the face of that corruption that you had – and we've just seen that they had it by voting against opening a commission of investigation on the fraudulent use of public money – for example, by defending corruption, you blame other factors, like people who are ill with hepatitis C, for example. But you didn't talk about what this situation means, either, that money shift to tax havens. He didn't talk about it either, when many of his friends are involved in these tax havens, to whom you, in addition, continue to give them business so that they continue to divert money from tax havens. Nor did you talk about the influence it had on the economic results of both the drop in the price of oil and the loss of money. Everything is a success of Mr. Feijóo and his policies, and what is not a success is not named. Galicia has fulfilled the deficit, but we must also know that it has fulfilled the deficit. Income – the deficit depends on income/expenditure – comes from transfers by the powers and taxes transferred and participation in government taxes. Of course, in the election year we lower the taxes, because it's very good to lower the taxes. But the problem is that by 2017, if income comes mainly from taxes and we lower taxes, obviously we're going to have a very black year; but the elections have passed, which is the important one. So now we're on an election campaign and not really thinking about the future of this country. But besides, you supported this deficit compliance first and don't give public staff the money they owe them or recover public staff the rights they have usurped. GDP has grown by 3.2 in 2015, but you don't say it's grown by 4.9 less than eight years ago, than in 2008; that is, we're eight years behind. Galicia reached 92% of the EU average in 2008 and now it's 83. We've distanced ourselves from Europe. The Spanish State, which in 2007, was 105 per cent and now only 94 per cent. Galicia met the deficit in a public debt context of 100% of GDP, as a result, to meet this deficit, of unemployment of more than 20% of the active population, the increase in the precariousness of new jobs, which you don't talk about. They talk about job creation, but they don't talk about that for every job that was created before, three are now created, because they're part-time, with lower wages and fewer rights. And, therefore, this also implies a fall in the contribution to Social Security. So it's their own policies that are favouring social security to decline, much more so when they continue to bet on subsidizing recruitment policies by subsidising the corporate share of social security and thus decapitalizing social security income. But also achieving the deficit led to the migration of our youth, our most formed youth, the loss of population, the aging of population, the deindustrialization of our country, the abandonment of research and the precariousness of health, social services and education. Compliance based on cutting policies. We just have to remember that the reduction in the health budget – which you praised there – in the state between 2010 and 2015 was 24,500 million euros. In Galicia in 2015, overall health care was targeted at 20% less than in the highest budget of that period and 30% less in the staff chapter. So we have health, so there's a demonstration for May 12 claiming public health, claiming that people, patients, are not forced to go to private health. But we also have other examples in their politics, such as the extension of Ence, the eucalyptization of our country. A clearly importing economy, with a negative commercial balance which is the fourth in the state import ranking. A Greek deficit that is greater than Spanish in imports. Galicia is part of the economically peripheral communities that supply the central economies in which economic activity is concentrated. Galicia stands out in the supply of milk, meat, fish, low-quality wood and semi-manufacturing metal to work elsewhere, available energy for final consumption, and must withstand its impact on the territory. The role of our economy is determined by the massive import of fossils and the role played by large multinationals. He's not betting on the Greek companies. It's a lie. The rate of emancipation of young people in Greece continues to worsen and consumer confidence, coming down. The weight of wages in gross domestic product continues to be reduced. An average of seven daily evictions are still being recorded. He's still emigration from youth. In Galicia there are 121,000 women and 106,700 men unemployed. You just talk about the unemployed, never remember that most of the unemployed population are women and the most precarious population are also women. At the beginning of 2015 something more than 53,000 people had recognized the right to benefit, about 38,000 received assistance, 30% were waiting. That amount was rising and now more than 30% are waiting for those aids I've already recognized. I'm running out of time, but I also want to admit that your policies make us more dependent on foreign investors than ever on delivering our markets, our industrial capital and our cut-off public services to global financial markets, as it happened and is happening with the new Vigo hospital or as it happened with Barreras or with the whole public procurement. An economy based on job insecurity, energy and financial dependence, low value added sectors and the privatization of public services. A policy that only creates jobs in the services sector – you said it – in the services sector is where jobs are created, but it is also true that in the services sector it is where work conditions are more precarious, where eventuality is higher and where wages are lower. So it's creating an economy again based on sectors of low value added, in sectors that don't generate wealth in the country, such as the service sector, such as tourism or other...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u30	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u31	...activities that are not industrial. There's a lot to say, I'm saving it for the reply, but it's certainly disappointing to hear you talk about a Galician who only exists in the imagination of the People's Party. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. AGE Parliamentary Group. Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u33	Good morning to all and to all, those who are upstairs as well. Mr. Counselor, he came to give a rally of precaution; I saw them better, eh!, as mittens, I saw them better; he came to give himself an exercise of autobomb. I'd like to know, that you told me, in confidence, whether you believe this or simply is a disciplined worker of the People's Party who comes to make pretense. Then you can tell me. And he came here just pretending that you're the ones who cut the best. That's what you came up with. If we had met the target of the deficit because we raised more of the big companies, because we eliminated the sysav, because we eliminated the tax havens, because we put the scissors on Mr. Soria, Mr. Cañete, etc., but you came here to assume that you met the target of the deficit, but you made the whole effort to the working classes bear. On the other hand, you, yours, for those who work, live better and better, earn more and more, they pay less and less taxes. Working classes earn less and more and more taxes. And there's the data, Counselor. You've come here to assume a number that means you're the champions of the cuts. Because the problem is not the deficit, the problem is not a number, the fulfillment of a number. The problem is unemployment, the problem is inequality, the problem is the deprotection of thousands of people you left on the stake by applying orthodoxly what they were told to apply the powerful. The problem is the rejections, not the fulfilment of the deficit target, Counsellor. The problem is tax fraud. The problem is your fiscal amnesties. The problem is your tax reforms, which favor those from above. The problem is that wages are paying more and more taxes, wages that are getting less and less. The problem is the people who had to leave this country because you denied them opportunities, because they haven't made policies to develop the productive sectors of this country. The problem is these researchers who went away, those who took your career to cut the help for university research from 2011 to 2015. That's the problem. You don't care, because you come here to give a rally of good that fulfills the aim of the deficit. The problem is youth unemployment, which you've multiplied by four almost. The problem is long-term unemployed people who don't charge any benefits anymore, you've multiplied by more than three. The problem is that Galicia has risen the unemployment rate much more than in the rest of the state. The problem is that Galicia is the fifth most declining in GDP – I have the data here – the fifth most growing in all autonomous communities. People's problems are those, Counselor, they don't understand the objective of the deficit. And much less when that deficit target is a more submissive mechanism of the States that are truly ruling in Europe at the moment. It's a mechanism more of these great powers to enter the public sector. You can't increase the deficit, you can't hire people, you can't hire young people who leave college to provide public services, you have to give it to business friends, because you have to have budgetary stability. It's a submission mechanism too. You came here to do precaution saying that either you win or this is going to be chaos, political instability. Your stability doesn't want it, Counselor. And it's normal, because you've already accepted those submission mechanisms that mean that States have to go to private markets, those private markets that are already buying money for negative interests, and that then states have to pay them to make those banks profit. They're going to be bought up to big companies for their bonds. Those who accept that you are private companies related to the oligarchic interests that handle the quota, because you let them handle the quota, and you work for them, those are the ones who say how much the risk premium of each state is. And, of course, when there is a possibility in the Spanish State that there is a policy that has the courage to say that there must be an increase in the minimum interprofessional wage so that people can work, and that it gives them to live, and that it gives them to be able to pay for food and to be able to pay for their housing, then immediately those measures rise to the risk premium, these measures shake those who have confidence in politics, make them shake the big ones, of course. Because in all politics there are contradictions. You defend each other and we defend each other. That's why you accept a framework in which those who command and design policies are the great oligarchic powers that have companies and have workers in those companies that say that the risk premium is greater or less. Every step the Rajoy government took against the people, against the working class, increased market confidence in their policies. It's obvious, it's obvious. But the result was generalized impoverishment. You obviously generate a lot of confidence in the great financial powers, because they're making policies for them. You also spoke of self-government, in full, a self-government in full. All right. No competition transferred since you rule, not one. Many sovereignty granted to the State and Europe. And you say we enjoy a full self-government, when we've shown that we don't even have tools to protect our ship, to protect our dairy sector, we don't even have sovereignty to protect our energy sector, and you're telling me that we enjoy full self-government. You decided that you had to meet that deficit target number, whatever it cost, and it cost you, but it always cost you those below. And you also said that it was that big goal, to meet the deficit, and also didn't say that it cost what it cost also meant that, if you had to close the exercise in September and cut root, it would be cut; if you had to stop executing European funds, they stopped. One example, the last one: the Rural Development Programme. You have arrived, from 145 million reprogrammed to 122, and yet you have been in line for the execution of the projects, and for the first time in the history of this country 600 files have remained unresolved in the Agader, Counsellor. And in that he had to see his obsession with selling a number here, and that's why more than 80 million euros of rural development funds were lost from Europe, Counsellor. If you ask them first to meet the deficit, because you are very obedient to the powerful ones, you should also ask some to assume responsibilities for losing 80 million euros in a rural that rubs and comes below. Then you also talk about growth and the target of the deficit. Look, I heard Mr. Montoro justifying the failure to meet the deficit target by saying that, on the other hand, the economy has grown by 3.2%, of which it was growing all over Europe. Of course, that you failed to meet the deficit in the election year, tax joys were allowed, and obviously even that failure meant the success that they contributed to domestic demand; obviously, compared to one year, domestic demand increased and so, wrongfully, increased growth. But we think we have to completely change the logic. You have to use public resources to change the production model, you have to use public resources to get all the students you're driving out to work here in a new production model, not like you, that the only future that gives them is to be waitresses. And where will those resources come from? Well, obviously, putting the scissors on his friends, putting the scissors on the sysava, putting the scissors on the tax havens, putting the scissors on the most won. And simply, with the average of the Spanish state's collection, with the European average of tax revenues, we already formed ourselves, to have those resources to develop policies that, on the one hand, dynamic the economy, where we have to go, to a green, sustainable economy, with skilled employment, and not as you do, extractive and low-skilled jobs, and also to guarantee what never guarantees the private initiative, which is the protection of all the citizens of this country, which does not guarantee their policies. You, with these policies, have favored some, there's nothing else to do with it. You were talking about the job. Look, they still have a lot of truce - and they won't have it, that truce - to recover the occupation there was in this country when you arrived. You've destroyed 123,000 jobs since they arrived. There's no more to see the busy IGE data when you've arrived and busy now. And you destroy that occupation. And instead, there was a statistic that came out recently that said, despite the increase in official numbers 19,000 busy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u34	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u35	...the GDP, the GDP weight of the wages of the Greeks and the Greeks has fallen. What does that mean? That you lead us to a model of precariousness, of temporality, of those who are called poor workers, who work today and don't guarantee you that you can live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u36	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Jorquera.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Counselor. Tomorrow the Socialist Group will ask Mr Feijóo if he believes that strict deficit control policy is beneficial for this country. And I have to start by saying that I find this question very appropriate, even if it is not formulated by our parliamentary group, because its government is indeed a champion in meeting the targets of the deficit, but our economy, Counsellor, continues to grow below the state average, even as it happens with the Canary Islands, the other common regime community that has met the target of deficit. On the contrary, Catalonia and the Valencian Community are among the most unmet, but the economy of these communities has grown above average. Of the seventeen autonomous communities, we are silver medals in meeting the deficit targets, but in GDP per capita we went down to the tenth position. Look, according to the president of the board, our economy has entered a virtuous circle. What do you mean? I ask you, Counselor, what this virtuous circle consists of. How much has the rate of job destruction since you arrived at Galician Union doubled that of the Spanish State? What's going down twice the occupancy rate? At which rate of activity in that period was reduced by 4 points, by 1.7 in the Spanish State? His virtuosity is to comply with what they say, even if it is harmful to our country. You come up with a presumption of compliance with the deficit targets, but the deficit targets imposed by the central government are at the service of your central and antisocial model, Mr. Counsellor. They intend to force autonomous communities to make cuts in public services and social policies. And instead of questioning that model, you pretend to be obedient students, and so, since 2009, you've been cutting up nearly 2,000 personnel squares in our health care and 1,500 in our public education. So it's its social policy blouse. They prefer to be even more papal than the Pope and criticize Mr. Montoro for being permissive with the deficit. Look, if in the Spanish state only three autonomous communities have met the targets of deficit is not due to a problem of management, it is due to a structural problem, Mr Counsellor: a financing system that condemns autonomous communities to the lack of resources and a distribution of the totally unfair deficit. The central state manages little more than 50% of public expenditure, but reserves to itself 83% of the deficit, and autonomous communities manage one third of public expenditure, but the state imposes a maximum limit of 17% of the deficit. And if it wasn't enough, by 2016 the Central Government fixed for itself a 24% reduction from the spending limit set for 2015 and imposed an additional 57% reduction for autonomous communities; all this to force autonomous communities to cut and dismantle social policies. And his Government, instead of questioning it, instead of denouncing that the central government violates the law and does not review the system of self-financing, his government, instead of questioning these issues – it is worth redundancy – behaves like a chivado and balla student and even requires the punishment of non-compliant communities. Look, Mr. Oriol Junqueras says the Montoro's letter is inapplicable, that Catalonia will make no cuts, and you're angry. But Mr. Montoro justified the shift in social security by appealing – the country textually – "to the political will not to freeze or cut pensions, because it is a value of our democracy and our state of well-being." It's not such a different argument, is it, Counselor? That, logically, aside from Mr. Montoro's hypocrisy, because it's the policies of the People's Party that they are endangering the pension system, with the explosive cocktail of degrading working conditions, lowering corporate contributions and handing out the Reserve Fund to fund games that should not be supported by social contributions. Counsellor, you put obedience to the dictates of the central government to which public policies contribute – inciting their own words – to healthy growth, to healthy growth also from a social point of view, Counsellor, because it is not healthy a growth in which there is an increasingly enriched minority at the cost of an increasingly impoverished majority. Oxfam intermon introduced at the beginning of this year the report An economy serving 1%. The conclusions are demolition. The Spanish state is the OECD state where inequality has grown the most since the beginning of the crisis, almost 10 points more than the European average and 14 times more, nothing more and nothing less, than in Greece. And these days, Counselor, we know the data from the Labour Market Report in Galicia in 2015, and the only group of workers who grow up in our country is the one who earns less than half the minimum wage, less than half the minimum wage. According to the European Social Charter, a worker with less than the minimum wage is in danger of poverty or already living in poverty, and in Galicia 61% of the employed workers are already in this condition, Counsellor. That's the healthy growth of what you call it. I therefore recommend that you take this data into account before you throw rockets at the growth of GDP. I'm glad that for once the data improves initial forecasts – they believe me – I never thought the worse, the better, the better, the better. I've never been to that theory. Yes, I ask him not to be stopped from seeing the woods, because the crack stays and goes up, Counselor. In GDP per capita we are 12.3% below the average of the state, 3,000 euros less per capita. That is despite the fact that Galicia continues to lose population, which should lead to an increase in GDP per capita. The German GDP is still 6.3% below the year 2008, below the level you were when you reached the Government, a decline of almost two points higher than that of the Spanish state as a whole in this period. And according to Eurostat, Counsellor, per capita GDP in Greece represents only 80% of the European average. Let's go back in terms of convergence to the year 2003. Finally, Counsellor, the data indicate that this growth is healthy of what you assume is that the gap in our country not only is not corrected but it continues to grow, we continue to diverge. Look, we've also known these days a study that says young Greeks are the most pessimistic of their future work. 23% believes that in the next five years, their work situation will be even worse or worse than they are currently suffering. We will ask Mr Feijó tomorrow at the control session on this issue. Therefore, Counsellor, that the trees do not prevent you from seeing the forest, because our country continues to sink into the demographic decline, into the social decline, and continues to differ economically with regard to the Spanish State and the European Union. That's what the data is about, although – that's right – in compliance with deficit, we're actually sub-samples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u38	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u39	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, I'll start exactly as the fellow of the BNG finished: I hope, Mr. Counsellor, that the forest does not prevent him from seeing the trees or that the trees do not prevent him from seeing the forest. I, in fact, when I saw your intervention, I expected what it really was, I mean, you came here to presume some results, some results that I am glad in the staff that in the macro data are better than those of the previous year – and I recognize it and I feel deep joy – but, of course, you called me very much attention to your intervention, because you could sum up on the press release you published on the website of your Counsellor on March 31, 2016 and of which I will allow myself to read a very small excerpt. He said: Galicia met the public deficit target set for 2015 and was the second autonomous community with better results, as confirmed today by the Ministry of Business and Public Administration. According to data from the Ministry of Business, Galicia recorded a public deficit of 0.57 in 2015, thus fulfilling the 0.7% target set by the Tax and Financial Policy Council for all autonomous communities. The deficit in the set of autonomous communities was 1.66%, almost as much as three times as the German. You're gonna let me extract a few paragraphs from here. First, it was the second autonomous community. That was their goal, their goal was to be the champions of the public deficit, to be able to get here and say, we are the best community in Spain. It's been seconds, it's not bad. But let me tell you, Counsellor, at your next point, that in the press release you have reached a public deficit of 0.57 % instead of 0.7. That means that you have left, without failing to meet the objective of the deficit, of using around 80 million euros. You will be with me, Counselor, in that, in the situation in which we are, with 80 million euros, you can do a lot of things, but of course, the important thing is to stay for seconds or for the first - I don't know - in the objective of the deficit. You have transformed what is a means to an end in yourself, your end is to make the public deficit the center of all your policies. For socialists, economic policy objectives are not a public deficit. Targets are growth, employment, improvement of health, improvement of education, improvement of social policies. And the deficit, a restriction that we have to meet in the medium term, of course, but it's not much less the centre of our policies. If, of course, your goal was to achieve the aim of the deficit, congratulations, you've achieved it, Counselor, and you're the second autonomous community. But let me tell you that when the target reaches the 0.7 deficit, it's easy, yes, if what we want is just that. Why? Because, to achieve that goal, all we have to do is cut off, and that, Counselor, I have to admit to you that they do it well. You were talking about the budgets in your 2015 intervention. Among other things, you were talking about saving public debt interests. I quantified him with regard to 2014 in more than 500 million euros that savings, but you put it as a medal, and I have to tell you that this is not due to the policy of the Galician Union, that is due to the evolution of financial markets; I suppose you will agree with me. And I also recognize that yes, tax revenues have risen. But on the contrary, what did you do? Look, investment has only increased by 32 million; active policies against unemployment, by 31; and social spending, for example, by 40 million, this social expenditure that you spend so much on. If you had applied these other 80 million, which would continue to meet the limit, could multiply by three the increase in social spending over the previous year. Those of 2015 are the sixth budgets presented by Mr. Feijóo's Government, and they are all characterized by austerity, which I have to tell you has demonstrated its failure and that they come to maintain basically the progressive cuts that have been made in the previous exercises. And I have to tell you that these budgets have given up fighting people's unemployment and despair, in exchange for appearing as students who are advantaged by fulfilling the deficit. You didn't accept on your day an amendment tabled by the Socialist Party to fight unemployment, you rejected a employment plan that you announced in the budgets this year. In our plan there were programmes to combat unemployment, youth employment plans, youth return plans, training plans, cooperativeism promotion plans, employment plan through the municipalities. And all that you didn't accept. And now we know that, in addition, they could have met the target of the deficit by spending 80 million more. Would it not be better – I say – for them to meet the target of the deficit – that they would meet the same – and that they would spend those 80 million more? I'd like you to tell me in your reply what your opinion on this is. Their compliance with the deficit deepens in the growing social inequality, persisting in the austerity line that has come to characterize the last budgets. They renounce momentum and productive growth and improve the social protection of the Greeks and the Greeks. I'm going to give you some data that I think you should take into account when talking about the deficit as well. They haven't improved the wages of the Greek workers, who see as day by day they're losing purchasing power. Now – they said it in some previous intervention – we have a new concept: poor workers, workers who are working and cannot arrive at the end of the month. We have more and more social spending, in absolute terms. Yes, it is true that, in relative terms, Counselor... yes, yes, yes, I will give you a data. [[Murmurs.]] In 2010 social expenditure was spent EUR 8.262 million; in 2015, 6,447. We're talking about 22% less. In relative terms it is another topic. I also have to tell you that we have strong public indebtedness, even though you say there are – and it is true – autonomous communities that are much more indebted than ours, but that debt is going to spoil the future policies of any ruler who has to assume the Government of Galicia. And there are also drastic reductions in productive spending. And then, Counselor, I have to tell you that, even though they've improved the levels of budget execution, they're clearly improving also those you have in 2015. They also give up the highest income, for not asking and asking, as we have done on several occasions, to change the system of self-financing, which I think should be addressed seriously in the coming days. What I should ask the Government now – and I would like you to tell us too – is that, for example, all those savings, for example by reducing what you will have to pay for the interest of the debt, to which they will be dedicated for this year 2016. Will they be dedicated to helping people who don't have a job to find him? Or will they be dedicated to achieving the new deficit target for 2016? I would also like you to clarify it later in your next intervention. If we get the information from Fairy, we see that Mr. Montoro the other day has certainly given some interesting data, right? The General Administration had a 2.9 target and closed with 2.53, after an adjustment made by Eurostat. Social Security, however, which had a 0.6 target, closed with 1.26. And the municipalities, which were the cause of the deficit – it seemed to be, according to Mr. Montoro, of the administration deficit – because they were overcome, while their target was 0%, the autonomous communities that had a deficit of 1.66 when their target was 0.6. Where do I want to get to? As Airef (the Independent Tax Responsibility Authority) said, in 2016 the targets of the deficit will not be met by the State, we will have to continue making cuts, and I fear, Mr. Counsellor, that those cuts that will come to us by the State – that I remind you that you are also ruling there, the People's Party – will also have to apply to the citizens of Greece. And I ask, what advantage have we had that we had to apply cuts in this 2015 if now, in addition, they're going to apply them in 2016? Or are we going to have to wait until we ask Mr Montoro by this Parliament to take account of the results of the Greek economy, because he changes his mind and allows the Greeks to have a comparative advantage over the other autonomous communities that have not met? I also want you to tell me that you think about the announcement that Mr. Montoro also made, that he said he was going to apply corrective measures – I don't know if to intervene accounts is very strong – but he's going to apply corrective measures to various regions and withhold funds – he was talking about Aragon and the Extreme – behind the payment to suppliers. But besides, Mr. Montoro said something very interesting: he warned that they could follow that same path Balearics, Andalusia, Catalonia, Madrid, Murcia, Castela-León, Cantabria, Galicia, Asturias and also the Valencian Community. I'd like you to tell me in your reply that you have to say to that statement by Mr. Montoro. I'm going to finish -- I'll follow up on the replica -- by commenting on some other topic that I think is interesting, apart from having been the seconds on the deficit target, and I think I should take into account when I run these budgets -- I hope you don't ask your predecessor for the points -- speaking of the Strategic Plan, of what you talked about in the intervention at the end. I have to tell you that the last strategic plan had a deviation of more than 4 billion euros. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u40	Thank you, Mr. González Santín. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Puy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. There is a concept that does not come at all from any economist of those who usually cassulate as a liberal economy, or from a neoliberal economy; it is a concept primarily developed by the economy of the 1950s, the authors who developed, like Murray and others, the theories of development, which was the concept of vicious circle. This concept appears for the first time in the journal's first editorial, which is a classic in the development economy, Economic Development and Cultural Change, which is from the 1950s. And, of course, although in all these theories it is clear that economic management is not the only factor that affects the economic development of countries that are somewhat backward, or are underdeveloped, but there are other factors, culturally and even institutionally, the truth is that this concept of vicious circle has shut down in economic science, and in the other crisis, which now we know has not even been as big as we are living in, which we are already leaving behind, but which we are still following with its effects between us, which is the crisis of the 1970s – the oil crisis – because it has led many farmers to talk about the opposition between that vicious circle of development and the virtuous circle. It is in these terms where the Government speaks of virtuous circle, and in which I have also spoken on some occasion. The virtuous circle of the economy, basically in the context of public spending, is that with low interest rates there is more credit, so there is more real investment, that makes production grow, which makes employment grow and hence citizens' incomes, which in turn consume more, save more and therefore boost growth again. In front of that, there's a vicious circle, which is what slows development, where higher types of interest imply less credit, which means less real investment, with which production falls, with which employment also falls, with which family incomes fall, so there's less consumption and less savings, and therefore the economy goes down, continues to crisis and decreasing. Clearly, in order to get a virtuous circle in the economy, what we call public institutions, the public sector, we all have to do the right thing, and for example it's obvious, it's one of the good things that we're having, even though some people criticized there isn't so much when the crisis began the very existence of the euro, because we're seeing that, for example, the European Central Bank and its low-interest policy because it's helping, and the wind of populace we're saying, aren't you helping the Spanish economy leave behind the crisis? Therefore, each part of the public sector has to do its utmost to make it possible for when there is a crisis that puts us in a vicious circle, which is exactly what the Government in Galicia received in 2009 and especially the Government of Spain in 2011, because to turn it into a virtuous circle that achieves that result – which ultimately is what concerns us all – that there is income, that people work and that the public sector can guarantee the state of well-being. That's why, well, I want to thank you that, although expressly – not very enthusiastic, but expressly – the socialist spokesman and the nationalist spokesperson did so, they recognized that we are facing some data from those who rejoice, because, at the bottom, I contradict the predictions that they did when they said precisely that the management of the autonomous public auction was just going to take us on the contrary, to a fall, to fall more the economy, and therefore we're seeing that it wasn't. I certainly believe that, in addition, and to the extent that you can criticize Mr Montoro, because I did not know how to embribrate the deficit, both in Social Security and in all autonomous communities, I hope that these criticisms – which were very harsh – by Socialist spokesperson Jordi Sevilla: "It is unquestionable the responsibility of the government and it is obvious that this complicates the management of the next executive", it is clear that if this is a criticism that is done because the deficit is excessive, even though I think it will not happen, if you inherit this government, they would have to say exactly the opposite, they would have to say that it is unquestionable the responsibility of this government and that it is obvious that this would facilitate the management of the next Executive, would it not? Just for consistency, right? [[Applause]] But not only are these issues macroeconomic, as the spokesman for AGE said. You probably read in the economic press these days that the European Central Bank has excluded Catalonia from the debt purchase program. In front of this announcement, which was originated by the fact that the Generalitat had a short-term credit with a financial entity of 100 million euros that would not return, which led to the qualification of the Catalan public debt, which at this time is already good waste, had gone to an even worse rating – exactly to a document that is useless at all, which is Select the Default – well, Mr. Oriol Junqueras the first thing he does is to call Mr. De Guindos, and immediately Mr. Montoro, and of course they have given him a hand to change that debt in the short term to long-term debt and avoid the ultimate default of the Catalan debt. And why does Mr. Oriol Junqueras, who obviously isn't the PP, or the zero deficit defender, etc., do you do that? Because you know perfectly well that, if there's a default of debt, who's going to have a problem isn't him, nor the Government; who's going to have the problem is the citizens of Catalonia, because the autonomic public sector is going to stop paying; and not only will you stop paying the suppliers, it's going to stop paying their officials. So when we talk about these figures and it's said that macroeconomic figures are going well but that you're not helping people's economies, because you have to be careful, because it certainly helps the economy, that the government has some healthy accounts, that citizenship is better. Well, they all said that Mr. Counselor came to boast. The Counsellor is Greek, and when he can call himself a Welshman, slowly, but boasts of this data, because he can obviously boast of the management he has done as well as the Government as a whole, because the fulfilment of the public deficit is one thing of the entire government team, of its leader, of President Feijóo – of course it is of particular importance to the work of the Business Council, but it is a team work of the entire Government. [[Applause]] And why does the councillor give me a little bit of Welsh, and I also think there's something to boast about? Because there is less deficit, but the lower deficit, which is the deficit of the difference between income and expenditure, has to do with, essentially, the fact that there are many more revenue from the financing system, positive liquidations – EUR 90 million – that we are not being held back, as if they are going to retain those who failed to meet the deficit for next year. That's what Mr. Montoro is saying: you don't spend any more. I'm going to retain the positive liquidations so that you spend the same thing and don't increase your spending with these positive liquidations. Because the 7% increase in the collection of taxes directly managed by Junta, the tax yielded and the own taxes, which reach a total of 512 million euros. And because there was a better management of community funds, which increased their weight in the budget by 13%. There's more revenue, but there's also less expenditure, namely financial expenditure. There are 56 million euros of savings in interest rates precisely because they have met the deficit in previous years. And besides, he had it well for the first time – and look at the negative liquidations that we inherited from the years 2008 and 2009 – the Government of Spain, to those communities that fulfilled the deficit, forgive us the expected return for last year. A return that I think was basically what the councillor came to ask for the support of the whole House, and from then on he has the support of the People's Group, because it's a prize that allows communities that meet the deficit to have more expense. And that's where we have an expansive budget. You don't believe in expansive budgets. Today Airef's latest report makes it clear – Airef's report that it was mentioned by one of the spokespersons – that Galicia has to make a reduction in the deficit from 0.5 to 0.3, an adjustment of 0.2, but in revenue it's going to have another 0.7, so there's not to be a cost adjustment, is that there's 0.5% of GDP that we can spend on as much. That's what incorporates the budget, that square of the circle that, as you see, was a virtuous circle and was not a vicious square that impedes development. So we also have all this in a context where in 2015 there are 41,000 unemployed less and 32,000 more busy; where GDP increases at a rate of 3.2. Social spending is growing – 80% of the new expenditure is social expenditure – there is more investment – it grows by 14% in 2016 – and all of this allows citizens to enjoy more resources in turn, not only because they lower interest rates, not only because they lose their debt, not only because inflation is low, but also because we lower their income tax, the IRPF tax and the tax for rural transmissions. All this is what in economics is called a virtuous circle, and of course, Counsellor, we felt very satisfied that the data contradict the aggressors who said these budgets were going to sink the Greek economy. We believe that it is in reverse, that we are in a good situation to strengthen recovery from 2016, but obviously – as spokespersons say – there is no need to lower the guard, we must persevere in the virtuous circle because the long-term problems are of enormous magnitude. I agree that the trees must not prevent us from seeing the forest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u42	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u43	...but I don't think it's necessary to go too far in the branches either. Because the long-term dimension of problems is enormous: adapting our productive economy to the context of the European Union and the globalised world; adapting training for employment; adapting businesses in size to increase exports; improving innovation and development; retaining talent... and, of course, all of this will enable them to cope with social problems. Good economic management is not enough, but it's essential. And institutional stability is also needed, not only in self-government, but also in government. They spoke here of chaos as an alternative. The counsellor denounced him.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u44	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u45	I think chaos is evident by listening to the different interpretations of the economy that the opposition parties make here and in Madrid. In the short term, of course, we will continue with this responsibility, and we hope that everyone can benefit from this good management exercise that the Government of Galicia has done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u46	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Replica. Mr. Fairy's Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u47	Thank you again, Mr. President. I shall, in an orderly manner, try to answer the various issues raised by the voices of the various parliamentary groups as they have intervened. I am very grateful for the tone with which this debate is being held, if it is true that of the general considerations of what brought us... and it is not because at the beginning I came to talk about my book, my book, my book. Books have also been introduced that have a state component of which we have formed our opinion, that we never hide it from them. But I'd like to stick a little close to the state at this point in the fulfilment of the deficit and debt targets, as well as the spending rule, which we haven't talked about until now. Sometimes it has also been criticized in this Parliament what was the 2015 exercise and where the shots are going – it's also very important – in 2016. And also what was budget execution, which is the other side of the coin, to which some references were also made on your part. I must also thank you when Mr. Santín considered the macro data to be good data. I think they're excellent data, but in no way, really, it deduces some kind of self-comprehensibility in my words, even by the restful tone I'm using at this moment. It's a lot of what we've been doing. I think it's corroborated that it's a way of working correctly. But it's a lot more to do. Actually, macro data is good. It's also ahead of you, Mr. Santín, which is actually not 80 million, it's about seventy and something - about 73-75 - that differential that you've put forward. What's ahead of you is that we're also in April, we don't have to wait too long for the definitive data to be confirmed. And again fulfilling the deficit. Don't worry we won't lose a million euros. We are so interested or more than any of you in taking advantage of the margin that at the moment, speaking to IDAE, we have, because we are discussing certain issues that we believe should be taken into account and that will clearly allow us to take advantage of that differential that is not 80, but is indeed 70 and so many million euros. All right? It's going ahead of time that one thing is to do, but it would be – let me say the colloquial expression – of the stupid genre remain super-fulfillers, as the Cubans say. So we continue to trust what we have done, but in no way will we allow that capacity and margin to be lost simply by the fulfilment of the data itself. What is ahead of us is that this government will be who, through civil society, will continue to try to dynamize the entire economic fabric, which is at the end of this matter. This is just part of the whole general equation, which has been the economic and social development of this autonomous community. It was also commented a moment ago here which is one of the main corollaries. And the main corollary will also have to wait until Friday we have a meeting of the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council in Madrid, where all the autonomous communities – which have also made some reference here –. I would like to check – and you are not invited to the Tax Policy Council, but if you can follow it by the press – which is really going to be the state of mind at the moment also that our counterparts are doing in other autonomous communities to see if they really want to be in the position of this one you're talking to them, or are very happy with what was the result of last year. Therefore, the first corollary of all this is that the Autonomous Community of Galicia, given its evolution in 2015, which is no longer – in a somewhat more incisive way – to collect as much as we have seen since 2009. From this realism of coping with the economic crisis situation, at the moment the community can anticipate that it will not have to make any sort of cut in what we now know, which I believe is all. So go ahead and that's the first major corollary to fulfill the fiscal consolidation path. I'm not going to discuss whether there may be different opinions or not about the size of the deficit assigned to Social Security, to the state itself, to local corporations or to autonomy, in any way. What if this community, with different governments, is committed always to the fact that, once a certain issue is agreed on in the Tax Policy Council, we will always try to achieve it, as we have demonstrated year after year. I also advance that in 2016, we actually believe that we are from communities that are in a better position to reach 0.3%. But that 0.3% means that fiscal consolidation in Galicia is practically exhausted. Therefore, the first corollary to which one of you referred, such as the cuts, is also exhausted. From here on, he starts playing the cost rule; but from here on he also plays something very important – which was also introduced by someone of you – which is our debt level. And our debt level is telling us right now that Galicia in 2015 was the autonomous community where the debt decreased. In addition, if we analyze this latest legislation, 2012-2015, we are the community where debt has grown less. And if we consider it even since 2009, Galicia is the Community where the debt has grown less. At this moment, what I can tell you is that just as our propensity is to meet this year's public deficit, this 2016 will be the first exercise in which the Autonomous Community will fall from 18.6% it currently has, in relation to GDP, to 18.1%, I don't think we have reached 18.2% of GDP. We are also of the few autonomous communities that are available, if not in 2020, which is the commitment, yes in 2021, to fulfilling the public debt commitment. But in the public debt, apart from the important improvement which I have made to Galicia, the entry into financial facility, which are, on the one hand, the advantages that actually exist on the market, above all, the advantage that I have given the Autonomous Community to our agreement last year of EUR 85 million for greater costs. I therefore believe that we are in a very good position to, without let go, try to deepen in what is economic growth, in the change in the production model that we have already seen progress since the 2016 budget was set up, when we discussed in Parliament which were the main guidelines, and as you know, of what are the main actions contained in the 2020 scenario in our Strategic Plan, which we want to confront with all of you. The first one is the so-called employability and smart growth. I think from there we can all question each other. Employability. There's been a lot of talk here about employability. We are all aware of the crisis situation, the crisis and the double crisis we have had since the year 2008. There's a certain recovery from the job parameter. Is that enough? Not at all. If we are repeating it to the satiety of different members of the Government or of the parliamentary group when we saw here! We need economic dynamism to have a quantitative and qualitative component, without predetermining which sector in particular can be drawn, because this is much richer – thank God – than it may seem, and there is no kind of determinism. So all data from 2015 are very much corrected by previous years in terms of unemployment, with regard to employment, with regard to any comparative level that places us at least in 2012. Does that mean we're happy? No, that's why we're proposing that these greatest resources be devoted to all these issues. A reference to budgetary management was also made here. Budget management I think it was a good management – I'm going to stay there, right? What if the figures... what I'm also very interested in is that, where you've been talking here for the different groups, really the quantitative part wasn't the one that was most devoted to it, but to the qualitative one. I also like to devote a little time to the quantitative part, because, when we talk here about the execution of the consolidated budget of the Union and its entities, we are talking about the biggest expenditure – which was, in particular, about 382 million euros in non-financial expenditure – health was 201 million euros; education, 69 million euros and the productive sectors 32 million euros more than in 2014. So to come here and talk about that we're not focusing, consolidating and improving our public health, our public education, our productive sectors, trying to dynamize them, it doesn't correspond to the figures after the 2015 fiscal year has been settled. As it doesn't correspond to certain messages we're trying to correct, which I'm going to refer to in a moment. Now I would like to comment on the subject of GDP evolution. On the subject of GDP evolution, which is very important for this government right now, both in absolute terms and in relative terms, we are talking about that we are growing at the pace of Spain, but if you remember what was the first and second trimester of the year 2015, it means that in the second half we are growing above what is being done by Spain's average behavior. The first data from which can be the quarterly growth of Spain, in the environment of 0.7 % or 0.8%, are also released. Galicia is in the same environment, maybe one hundredths above what is average Spanish. There are risks, as I said before, and you – with a certain level of grace – were tinged, when we were talking about stability, institutional policy. That's the main factor in an advanced economy for investment to flow. Investment that was also spoken here, linked to the export issue, when one of the players questioned our export level, and it turns out that 2015 was a record year in exports. And when we talk about imports and look at their components, which are advancing imports and which are destined for much of them to intermediate goods that, as you know, will have a corollary later and a delay that will result in greater growth in GDP. I cannot agree with you when you refer to yourself in terms – to my understanding – a little over-exaggerated when you use concepts such as poverty and Galician inequality. Does that mean I feel comfortable with the results presented by the autonomous community? In no way – and I say it in a very high way – but you can't reverse the figures again. All exclusion and development reports, such as Foesa's, the latest INE data or IGE data, which corroborate the Galician situation between the two or three best autonomous communities. At a high level, yes, but we're between the two or three autonomous communities in the official data we're fighting. And at the same time, when we look at that corollary in the 2016 budget, we see our bet on the theme of inclusion, as it could be 17.7 % more than we are for these issues in the 2016 budget. Because, I repeat again, economic recovery will not be full until it is perceived at the level of virtually every citizen of ours. Also, the data that is systematically scoured here by certain groups do not, again, sympathize with the official data that we have, such as the subject of emigration. On the subject of emigration, generally, between official data in 2008 and 2014, Galicia marched 204.033 people, but came 240,130 people. And when we referred to the boys between 2009 and 2014, it turns out that they left Galicia 77,641 boys and came to 79,434. Does that mean we feel comfortable in the component and there are people who have to go out because they don't get a chance here? Not at all. We have to walk. But the figures, again, are stubborn and do not sympathize with certain messages of a catastrophist character directed by some of their lordships. You also referred to the topic of public employment. On the subject of public employment, what I would like to stress is that the situation has changed a lot in 2015. Few communities, like us, have been able to cope with these 105 million euros to return the extra payment of 2012, of which at present we will charge 25% in April and 24% – to reach 100 percent total – in September, which places us – given the consolidated nature of the fund we created in our Public Employment Act – in the the thesis we had in 2012, like any other autonomous community. As far as public employment is concerned, it turns out that Galicia is the community that has a greater stability in figures, if we consider them since 2009. So again, they do not sympathize with the reality of some of the issues that have been introduced by some group; apart from that in public employment it is not only a purely remunerative question, but there are other kinds of agreements, those that we have reached with trade union organizations, which have to do with libraries, with permits – like any employee we need our books and permits – or like the public job offer this year, that in the three sectors we are talking about 2,644 places, and the recovery of the cent per cent where it is possible, as we have always said, of what the replacement rate is. So, more and better public employment and better conditions; that was always our reason and so we want to keep working. Of all the interventions, what I would like to point out is that, if we are not the only one, we are from the two or three autonomous communities – four at the very most – which I think is easy to say at this time that we have full self-government capacity to develop our competences, and beyond. Only four communities at most, and two of them are not common regimes, have that capacity for real self-government, full, at the moment, as you can follow. Besides, this other question: how they look at us from outside. It is also good to see how they look at us, if we would like to be in this position – as some fellowman told them from this rostrum – or how he looks at us, even at the media level – and so it's collected, I think, in some newspaper today – some professor, where he clearly put the two factors that they have to see: a factor, according to him – I do not agree at all, as I hope you are not, is that the current funding system benefits us to the autonomous community, and by no means can I match it, but what he did gathers is that financial policy developed by this government – and not only in 2015, but in 2009 – is the correct one. That's why we get the results that we got in 2015 and that we hope to get as well, as in advance, in 2016. We were also talking here about the evolution of some parameters of income. Income is recovering in practically all parameters, but what I would like to highlight – also linked to 2016 and 2017, and one of the people also introduced it in their intervention – is that the 2015 collection, as you know, takes effect in 2016, but especially in the settlement we will have in 2017, and Galicia presents an increase in the collection of 10.7%, compared to the Spanish average of 3.8%. In the IRPF our collection rose by 1.8%, in Spain it dropped by 0.3%. This is also getting ahead of us, and we don't need to go much further, nor do we have to do any Nepalese logarithms on this issue of figures, that the message you were saying about this absolute precariousness in the labour market doesn't match the result of the collection by IRPF, because, with an identical table, it turns out that in Spain it's down 0.3% and in Galicia it's up to 1.8%. As for value added tax, in Galicia we grew by 15.6%, in Spain by 7.3%. Again, what's ahead of us is that the Greek economy is having a pulse through consumption that we didn't have until 2015. In societies, when certain government options are criticized here, welcome are all kinds of societies, the big ones, the small ones, the smaller ones and the lower ones, as Tocqueville also said. In companies we grew by 26.2% and in Spain by 10.3%. So we're all left with the figure that in Galicia in 2015 it was collected here by the state 618 million euros plus, that have a corollary already in 2016 as early as, calculated by the state, but that will also have it in the liquidation of 2017. So when we at other times criticized our stance on certain fiscal policies that we were developing, it is again confirmed that certain tax adjustments in the IRPF, even in successions and concessions and taxes in rural areas, which are causing such economic dynamization that includes that intended minority that we had at the time. Now to finish, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to extend and give a class here either; it's not my intention, it has never been, nor do I serve for these matters. What is difficult is that they deduce from my words a mitigating message, as said also a certain intervener. My words can be even boring, as practically all the advisors or advisors of the Fairy, a waiter gives me the impression that I don't. Curiously, his first intervention did swirl the pure and hard myth. It's good that everyone is spraying in what they consider appropriate. There's another question before I finish that I'd like to expose, because again there are certain issues raised by you that I can't deal with in any way. When I was referring to Health, to that important increase – and it was mentioned here by some of the participants also from hepatitis C – the first one I said – and what I feel very proud of, like any other member of this government, these benches or these kinds of ideas – was whether we have the right medicine to attend to the population set. And I can also tell you that in 2015 we were the largest proportion of autonomous communities. Those 77 million euros were the best we could spend. Don't look at it as a waste, look at it as normal. And yet we were able to enter the result. So I reiterate that the fruits that we are beginning to achieve by consolidating the progressive and unabrupt reduction agenda of the public deficit encourage this government to follow this path. Setting up accounts, not spending on what can ultimately be spent better, is what allows Galicia today to be a community of reference in Spain. A solvency community, which pays its obligations without the necessity of asking the State for money and always maintaining its financial autonomy to fully exercise its self-government. The last example is that most autonomous communities will have to make adjustments this year for being diverted and spent over their capabilities. Galicia will not have to make adjustments, and it will be able to continue to implement its budget to, among all, consolidate economic recovery, with more income, with less taxes and meet again the targets of public deficit and debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u48	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. Joint Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u49	Well, Counselor, as much as you try to turn reality around, reality is what it is. It's true, and it's the only explanation, that the reduction in the deficit in Galicia was made to sacrifice the social majority and the incipient state of well-being that we started to have, and you've already managed to liquidate it before it even caught a little more. There's your economy, your economic policy, based on an economy of subsistence, with the creation of temporary, precarious and part-time employment. So we have the employment data created, the unemployment reduction, for example in the last month, in March, and we have that in the service sector the reduction was of 2,270 people, while in the industry it was of 76 and in the construction of 464. Your model is defined: it's a model based on precariousness, on punishment for popular classes and, basically, on the working class. I've told you more than once, the working class doesn't get into its goals. As for social spending, which you say has increased so much, social spending has increased because there is more poverty, and if there is more poverty, it will have to be addressed. And yet there are more people, for example in dependence, with well-known aids, but they don't charge them, who don't access them, than in January. Going to increase the list of dependents with approval of pending tips to enjoy them. So, what you're doing is, the expense that the Administration had, moving it to society, and essentially to weaker society, because it's clear that in tax evasion, tax havens and corruption, you're not getting involved, that's paying, as it's usually said, Juan Pueblo, who's paying... and right now there are 23,000 people entitled to the benefit they haven't recognized. The councils are also saying that it is all right, that the Board has done what it did was to transfer expenditure from the Greek administration itself to the municipalities, mainly in teaching and health centres, in repairing schools and health centers that fall, which are not useful, and that they have to repair the municipalities because the Board has totally neglected them. An economy based on job insecurity, energy and financial dependence, low-value added sectors, and the privatization of public services. And the key to growth is not there, the key to growth is the elimination of unsustainable productive activities and the qualification of the working class. One thing that I would like one day to actually investigate is that it was done with the money of training in the Spanish State. Because today we have a picture of staff, workers and workers, with low training. What happened? In training, of course, you refuse to investigate. And there would be a lot to investigate what happened with all the money that came from Europe. And we can also talk about the decline in public works in Galicia, where the Union itself reduced the 131 million in 2014 to 108, being the worst figure in the whole Feijóo era. And we can also talk, in the election year, about those measures that you put on the table to fight poverty; quality measures, not political measures, that benefit, that generate wealth, that can make a better distribution of it; an unfair tax system, and of course quality measures, such as measures of assistance for people under 16 years of age in charge, who do not charge risk but who have wages that are at risk level. We're talking about wages around 400 euros. How do you come here to say that you create wealth when in our country the richest are the wages of 400 euros in the new jobs that you create? Because it's part-time jobs, jobs that force the working class to turn to social eaters and ask for help. Aid packages that seem to be taken from Caritas, low-cost rental checks, baby checks, school material subsidies, light checks... that is, measures to, of course, comply with the principle of charity, but not with the principle of social justice. You have shifted the cost of the crisis to the social majority that the administration had to bear with the cuts in social benefits, the privatization of public services, the sale of the productive sectors, the impoverishment of the social majority, a less equitable distribution of wealth and a large spole of public goods by politicians...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u50	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u51	...and companies. You have nothing to brag about – it's over – but yes, Mr. Puy, if there's a change of government, the next government has a lot to do with everything you've destroyed. And to begin with, you'd have to start applying active employment policies that you're not who, changing them for charity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of AGE. Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u53	Counselor, he did come to give a rally. He came to put on a headline nothing else, he didn't offer any more use to the country. You came here trying to hang – and surely you get it very successfully – that we enter in a virtuous circle, that is what you came to... as always, handling language and placing the debate where you are interested, so now they put it in the goal of fulfilling the deficit, but they don't put it in the evictions, they don't put it in poverty, social exclusion, they don't put it in the poor workers, they don't put it in the deterioration of working conditions, wages, etc. You put them in the virtuous circle. We'll talk after a virtuous circle. You talk about figures. Look, in the demography they don't manipulate the figures, although they have enough ability to do it. For the first time in the historical series, IGE data say there is a negative migration balance in the years 2013 and 2014, official data. This means if you go more people than you go in, more people than you go in. That didn't happen before. Maybe it didn't happen before the loss of population caused since you arrived. Until 2010, Galicia's population rose. First, because there were a lot more people than you were going to, because there were more opportunities for work, and because the crop balance was better, because people had better prospects for having children. That's common sense. And since you rule today, about 80,000 people have been lost in Galicia, 80,000!; are 64,000 the latest official data on 1 January 2015. That means that every year, starting in 2010, Galicia lost 16,000, 15,000 inhabitants. That means something, it's symptomatic. It's a symptom of a country where there's no opportunity to work and where opportunities don't allow enough stability, enough income, enough living conditions, so anyone who wants to be able to have children. That's why this data is symptomatic, counsellor, symptomatic. You were talking about inequality and poverty. Read the report of the Economic and Social Council, a monographic on social exclusion and poverty, and you'll see how you only use the appropriate indexes to manipulate an obvious reality. Since you rule, social exclusion has increased immensely. And it's normal, explain that report. It speaks of the increase in health prices from 2008 to 2014; of the 21% that rose, above all, pharmaceutical products. Who's affecting that? To pensioners and, above all, to low-income people. What the teaching services went up, what the light went up, what the electricity went up. Power companies, natural gas, don't apply the theory of competitiveness, they're given an official price so they don't lose money, it's not going to be that they won't be able to put former ministers of the People's Party. Right? 31% of basic sub-ministers: electricity, light, gas, right? That's what you don't talk about. They don't talk about the social exclusion and poverty ratios, which say that if we keep the average line on which social exclusion is calculated, 36% has increased in this country. Or the possible problems of chronicizing child and youth poverty created in this country. Or, as I've already told you, in the multiplication of unemployed people who no longer receive any benefits. You didn't come to talk about it, you came to talk about the virtuous circle. They were talking about chaos, too. Of course, chaos is the proposals made by the political forces to reduce the privileges of the old and, for example, to raise the minimum inter-professional wage. That's the chaos you announce if you win someone different from the People's Party. On the other hand, it is not chaos what happened in this legislate, neither the one in Basel, nor the one in Gürtel, nor to destroy hard disks at the headquarters of the People's Party, nor to pay with black money the reform of the seat of Genoa, nor the Punic, nor the Pokémon, nor the Pikachu, nor the Gomez de la Serna, nor the Gustavo de Aristegui, etc., that is no chaos! Neither the increase in inequality nor the increase in unemployment is chaos! It's the order you want, it's obvious. And you were talking, Mr. Counsellor, about the breakdown of the deficit. What position did you adopt in the Tax Policy Council when this division was adopted? Because when the Galician Union agrees there, in the breakdown of the deficit, which gives it a -2.9% for the state, the -0.7% for the autonomous communities and the -0.6% for Social Security, you are assuming the austerity of health and education, which have autonomous competences, which manage the autonomous communities, too, Galicia,
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u54	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u55	... turning into Troika's foremen. With four times more margins for the central state, which is given to the central state, the luxury of maintaining the sesav and other types of figures for the tax evasion, Panama, etc. Even electoral tax rebates and this kind of joy are allowed; or that the reference fund for pensions is scrapped, that you have reduced by less than half...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u56	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u57	...with these policies that fail to achieve the sustainability of social security accounts. This isn't harmless, with another department, it wouldn't be necessary for this austere murder. And if you deduct the resources from those who have the most, you wouldn't need the resources from those who have the least. [[Murmurs.]] You're an accomplice to an antisocial strategy. It's not a virtuous circle, it's a vicious circle precisely. Your legacy, Mr. Feijóo's legacy, scares the bravest...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u58	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u59	...both in the destruction of employment, as well as in the situation of the productive sectors, as are our owners, as is our naval sector, etc. At what price did we meet the deficit? And, finally, man!, in the execution of budgets you are not to boast. If not, look at the execution, during the years that you've ruled, for example in housing policies, to see what they are.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u60	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u61	Ridiculous figures! Or in rural development, something as necessary as rural development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u62	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Parliamentary Group of the BNG. Mr. Jorquera, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, first of all, I ask you to clear up a doubt. If I didn't understand you correctly in your reply, you said that Galicia was a compliment, but that it wasn't a compliment, as it is said in Cuba, because it would be a fool. I've got it written down here. So, of course, I'm clear: if it's so good this rate of sudden, drastic reduction, of the deficit, if it's so good to meet the deficit, why instead it would be fools to overdo it. I think you're entering a contradiction. It is recognizing that this sudden reduction in the deficit in the autonomous communities imposed by the Spanish Government means to attract resources that in investment and social policies would be very necessary for this country. But besides, Counsellor, you meet the target of the deficit, on the one hand, leaving unpaid bills or are there any false information appearing in the media that reports that Sergas left pending bills of payment for 412 million euros at the end of 2015? I remind you that the Board of Auditors has already warned the Board of Auditors on several occasions of the practice of deferring payments to the next exercise. And you meet the deficit by generating debt, you hardly care, Counselor. You textually said that Galicia would have EUR 3,000 million more debt if it acted like the rest of the autonomous communities. And why don't you compare with the previous government, something, by the way, that you like? Because, look, the reality is that your government has inherited a total debt of 3,923 million euros, and now Galicia's debt, if we include public-private collaboration, is already worth 13,429 million euros. Since you rule, debt has increased, without including public-private collaboration, at 164.4%. And if we include public-private collaboration, government debt Feijóo already amounts to EUR 9.506 million. These are the actual figures, Counselor. You, in speaking of the kindness of fulfilling the deficit target, said textually that it helps to create confidence and credibility and thus attract investments to our country. Look, are these information fake?: Galicia has a leak, there are more companies that run away from those who arrive. Is this information false?: Galicia captures only 3.9 % of all risk capital invested in Spain. But I want to stop at a question to which we attach particular importance, Counselor. You insist that one of the kindnesses to meet the targets of the deficit is that it allows you to maintain Galician financial autonomy. And I wonder, what is Galician financial autonomy worth if you don't exercise it? Because you have repeated several times – even more emphatically – that in this way we can fully exercise self-government. Well, exercise fully self-government. It turns out that you represent the German Government, we are in a debate in the German Parliament, and he says textually that his government had an opinion on the distribution of deficit targets among different administrations that the Central Government establishes, but that it will express it in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. I mean, on such an important issue for Galicia, you don't even express to the House the popular will of Galicia the view of the German Parliament or the contrast with the rest of the groups. But look, it's going to end this debate and you're going to keep going through points about the system of self-financing, even though the central government has broken the law and refused to review it. You, quoting an article, said you radically disagreed with the claim that the current system was good for Galicia. How many times have we used this House to demand this review, to make a country proposal, to contrast it with the whole of this House? And we're still waiting, Counselor. And then you come to assume that they are fully exercising self-government, when they steal this House and this country a debate as important to our nation as this one. And I'm done. You insist that the data we provide from the different voices of opposition groups on poverty or social exclusion in Galicia are data that is not true. I have contributed a given, Counselor, besides you can contrast it: the only collective of workers who grow up in Galicia is those who earn less than half the minimum wage. I'll ask you a question. Do you think that paying less than half the minimum wage is possible to live with dignity? Answer me, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u64	Thank you, Mr. Jorquera. Parliamentary Group of Socialists. Mr. González Santín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u65	Thank you, President. Counselor, you were talking about 80 million; it wasn't 80 that were 73. We're not going to argue at this point for six million, I'm going to accept even your figure. But I have to refer to what you said. You were talking about being overcompliant. It's just that they did, they passed the brake. In 2015 you were able to spend 73 million more fulfilling targets. So they've stopped freaking out. Point one. Point two. Macro data, Counselor, good, but bad people, huh, bad people. Where does all that money go? Where do you reflect those economic data in people's lives? We should think we're doing something wrong. Perhaps this has to do with what Mr. Puy said about the vicious circle and the virtuous circle. Maybe we miss a leg, Mr. Puy, redistribution, which is also necessary in that virtuous circle. And you know that every day in Galicia there's a bigger gap between the rich and the poor. So, I think we're doing something wrong. You were also talking about the collection of the IRPF, which was growing more in Galicia than in Spain, you said, and that, therefore, that rent gap did not know where we ended it from. Well, look at the official data. The average income in Galicia is 12.7% less than the average in the communities. We have five worse and eleven better communities. We're under average income, and so I think we'll have something to say there too. And you have not answered me – I suppose you would forget – what Mr. Montoro said about that announcement of corrective measures that he said he would apply to Aragon and the Extremadura, but that he could apply, among other things, Galicia. I'd like him to pronounce himself on it in his reply. Whether it's stupid what Mr. Montoro said, or how you see it. And you said you were going to go to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council in a better situation than the other heads of the Farm of other communities. Well yes, probably so, but I remind you that the autonomous communities that have served were you, Canary and Basque Country, three. On the contrary, they didn't fulfill all the others and didn't meet the Ministry of Finance either, because the Social Security deficit didn't. I hope that what Mr. Montoro said in his speech – which I took in quotes – that "these communities will count on a series of counterparties and differentiated treatment," does not mean that they will not be required a financial economic plan, because if those are the counterparties, of course, we are going wrong. I think we have to make a medium- and long-term plan and look at the goals we have to set. Recovery of public funding levels of R+D+i. We also have to make a plan to capture lost human resources since 2010; these young men so prepared that we form here, which has a cost for Galicia and are rendering out of Galicia. I also believe that we have to make a plan to act and dynamize the Igape; that at least we will reach the levels of execution within a few years – I say no more – that we had before the crisis. I also think we have to seek the creation of short-term jobs for those people who have lost their jobs during the crisis or those who have never worked and want to do so. We must also bet on equality between men and women and increase the budget in education, something so fundamental to us, a piar of our economy; and I say well, of our economy. We have to try to reach – I don't tell you anymore, but in the next five years – to 5% of GDP, to reach that famous 7% in 2025 that would be desirable in education, so that all children contain with the textbooks and contain with the school material they need, and they can all count on scholarships, so that no one can study when they want to do it and have the ability to do it. I also believe that we have to guarantee health care for all the Greeks and the Greeks, as well as provide an income of inclusion to the whole of the families without income of our community, or guarantee effective compliance with the rights of the law of personal autonomy and dependency, by setting an example. I also remind you that, according to the last EPA in the fourth quarter of 2015, there were 32,800 people or families with economic difficulties that we cannot forget. That's why, Counselor, I think we have a lot to do. And we have an aging population, and that 1.6% of the Social Security deficit is going to have a very big impact on our economy. You know that many of the Galician families are kept thanks to their older children's pensions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u66	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u67	For all this – I am finished, President – Mr. Counsellor, I hope you take the right measures and put aside the triumphalisms, and stop being here in Galicia a central government austerity laboratory because it doesn't work. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u68	Thank you, Mr. Santín. Mr Puy Fraga has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u69	Thank you very much, Madam President. As your lordships are attentive to the news, you will see that fiscal and financial policy council is already convened for Friday. Indeed, there will be the councillors of the various autonomous communities. Some will think exactly what spending programs they planned to do this year will have to submit to non-availability agreements, and other advisors will go with an budget that in addition to being evaluated by Airef gives a margin of 0.5% of the gross domestic product, according to Airef himself, to increase social spending, because it is the main competition that the autonomous community has, but also the expenditure of investment. Of course, there are autonomous communities that will not have to cut but that will not be able to increase spending, and there are autonomous communities that what can be discussed is how much more will increase spending. We trust there will be an overrun again. This year was 105 percent of the set of the initial budget, which means that if we go that way, the next year, we'll not only have what we already expect from the budget for the increase in expenditure, but we can even overcome it. It is clear that with this good management you can leave behind debates that have been consuming here a long time and that have made us many outraged by the expressions they did with us; for example, that of Hepatitis C. It is significant that the Junta can assume the 77 million euros that cost the treatment and that we have left aside this debate, and that other autonomous communities have also assumed it but, of course, with a sacrifice and with a higher cost, because now they will have to assume the consequences of that deviation from the deficit. And not only increasing social policy, but also investment. I want to remember that Galicia is, in the 2015 exercise, the autonomous community that invested most per capita; that is, in the spending on self-investment it was the community that per resident invested more, 465 euros, which is twice as much as the average of autonomous communities, 223. And by the way, it's much more than in Canary Islands, which is 39 euros below average. And it's also under Galicia the Basque Country, which invested more than half, but 109 euros per inhabitant less than Galicia. Well, this execution, overrun, was also in the area of income, as I said before. Now it's said that income is regressive. Well, if you see the execution data, you'll just see that direct tax revenues have risen by 103%, while indirect revenues by 101%. I am not tired of repeating that the reform that we have made is progressive; that we maintain the tax of heritage, which is the most progressive direct tax in the autonomic tax system; and that we also increase it by agreeing one as in other communities where left-wing forces rule. Galicia is meeting the deficit. I suppose you'll agree with this PSOE. In the government agreement that failed, but in what the socialists in Madrid insist and stubbornly insist on, what they say is that they want to maintain a firm commitment to budgetary stability and meet the new deficit targets that are negotiated with the European authorities, placing the deficit below 3% in 2017; and, indeed, in that set of measures we are in favour. It's all about obeisance, too. When we start ruling in 2009, we're going to say that Galicia was already there, because it's a bit up a bit below, in the middle of autonomous communities. In the PPPs, for example, Galicia was above average, because the PPP debt over GDP in Galicia was 0.5%, as a result of decisions taken, many of them, by the Government bipartisan in relation to channels of communication. We were 0.5% of GDP and the average of autonomous communities was 0.2%. At present, Galicia is 0.7% – with an increase of 0.5% to 0.7% – and the set of autonomous communities increased from 0.2% to 0.6%, i.e. a double increase in public-private funding, which also defeats a little that we are the champions of public-private debt. In any case, the indebtedness of the Galician ensemble was 7.2%, more or less to Spain, and is currently 18.7% of GDP, while the whole of the autonomous communities is 24.7%. You say, let's compare what we left behind. Man, of course, we had to sink into the fight against the crisis, and indeed, even those who criticized this debt, asked us for several years that we had not heeded the limits of indebtedness or the limits of expenditure and that we owed ourselves much more. Obviously, we maintain political autonomy. There's an old saying that information that's true can become a falsehood. For example, if someone announces that there's a crash on a highway, it's more likely that soon there's no more collapse on the highway. But it can also happen on the contrary, that a falsehood of turning into a truth. For example, if you say a bank that's good is going to break, the bank is most likely to end up breaking. When we talk about pessimism, when we talk about the loss of consumer confidence, because I certainly have to remember that, fortunately, in Galicia there is stability, and that the risk that all the institutions announce, from the Bank of Spain to the European Union...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u70	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u71	...is the fulfilment of both budgetary stability and a situation of political stability. Certainly, the risks are great. But, of course, this government is also fulfilling. Without triumphalism, because we know that the challenges we face are enormous, that we have not overcome the crisis or its effects. What we do know is that we are going this way towards the definitive solution to the problems left by the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u72	Thank you, Mr. Puy. Shut up. The councilman of Fairy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us close a debate on budgetary execution and compliance with the objective of stability in which it is very satisfactory for the Greek Government that the fact that Galicia is a fulfilling community is not new. It is the realization of the rigor and seriousness of this government. And it doesn't turn out to be a novelty that Galicia has achieved, because this government has been committed to controlling the public deficit since the first day. He kept it in the worst moments and kept it now that we began, with great effort, to leave behind the economic crisis. We always said that matching the accounts, not spending more than authorized, was the best way – at first – to resist with less negative impact the consequences of the crisis, to then face with more guarantees the economic recovery. And closed in 2015 this rigor and this responsibility have their reflection on very hopeful data, because, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, of all the indicators that were at the beginning of this legislation, at the end of 2012, and those that are now in Galicia only look like those that refer to that this community met the public deficit year by year. The rest – straight that with much effort on the part of the Greeks and the Greeks – turned completely and evolved in the right direction. In this Galician legislation it was able to move from recession to greater economic growth in eight years, to increase the rate of unemployment to reduce it increasingly, to lose taxpayers to increase members of Social Security, and to increase debt to stabilize it and start the descending path. And all of this without spending more than authorized and reducing the public deficit to more than half of what we were three years ago. The Greek Government contributed to this with the tools it had at its disposal; firstly, with the design of strict budgets; and, secondly, with a responsible execution that met the objectives for those who were designed our accounts. And he did it year by year, prioritising and trying to get the most out of each euro at a time of declining budgets. And that's what you're doing this year with already growing budgets, which allow you to strengthen priority splits and carry out measures such as the IRPF tax reductions, the elimination of succession and prayers to 99% of the Greeks and the Greeks and the zero tax strategy for the dynamization of the rural environment. It was worth the collective effort of Galicia, and the best is to come. I insist: no triumphalisms, but recognizing that all the work done over the last seven years has served to place Galicia in better disposition than years ago. We have sound accounts, we have credibility, we generate confidence, we maintain autonomy, we exercise self-government and we grow better, we reduce deficit and without increasing debt. Galicia has its own growth model. Tell me, gentlemen, how many communities can say the same thing. But the important thing is not the praise that Galicia can receive, which also comforts, the important thing is the benefits that this serious and responsible behavior, and this enormous effort, supposes to the citizens of Greece. We have saved 150 million euros last year to meet the public deficit, and the Government of Greece will demand that the government of the state this year also have to have economic advantages over its efforts. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u74	Thank you, Counselor. As you've been informed, we've gone on to substance the motions. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Parliament of Galicia, within two months, of a reorganisation study of the local plant that serves as the basis of merger initiatives or supramunicipal cooperation
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u75	This motion was amended by the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u76	To formulate the motion, Mrs. Soneira Tajes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the past full we asked Mr. Rueda about the studies he had done at the Galician Council about possible mergers of municipalities, and very particularly about the two we have been working on right now, which are the only examples we know: that of the North, that of the Town Hall of Oza and its neighbour, more now the announcement of Sardinia and Cotobade. Mr. Rueda's response, of course, was a sort of vagueness that demonstrated that there was no study that advised in this particular case the merger of certain municipalities, nor even that there were global studies of the whole of Galician municipal plant that advised this or that merger, or this or that performance that had improved and changed living conditions and demographic dynamics in the city halls of the study. There was no such thing, and the amendment tabled by the People's Group shows that there is no such thing as the fact that there is nothing about it. There is also a finding: the only criterion that has been used so far is a political partisan approach, mergers are used as an instrument – and even to me it seems surprising – of political debate for star announcements by the president of the board, or even Mr. Rueda himself now that he has reached the highest organizational responsibility in his province. They're more "PPfusions" than mergers of municipalities that complement their demographic dynamics, their socio-economic fabric, or any variable that allows them to change the conditions that led those municipalities to the current situation. Because, to aim exclusively at the sum of surface dwellers in many extensive cases, which are depopulated, abandoned activity in the primary sector and human desertification as a norm, that in the end, if the conditions that led to those municipalities to that situation are not changed, it is literally absurd. Why? Because – and we'll see it in the future – these cities merged exclusively to achieve a higher percentage of state income – which is true they will be achieved by increasing population – in less than one generation will again be in the same situation they are in today. Why? We're going to take as an example the last proposal, we're going to get data that gives the municipalities themselves to justify the posteriori – and that if you want to dress as a study – the reasons that advise the merger. Look, the counties themselves – that of Sardinian, for setting a case – say that the average age of their population is over 57 years old. What does that mean? That, for a purely biological evolution, within... I first said a generation, I'm not able to calculate the years. But you did, from the 1990s until now, both Cotobado and Sardinian – more marked in Sardinia because they had less population – have lost more than 1,000 inhabitants, 1,200 and 1,400. If we don't change the conditions that led the current Sardinian to this situation, and the current Cotobade to this situation, the merger of both municipalities, which are around 6,000 inhabitants, if they follow with the same dynamics, will lose 2,000 inhabitants in the next ten or fifteen years. As a result, we're going to have a council of less than 5,000 inhabitants with an average high age, no activity and that will advise you to merge it with another who is next to you to get more additional income from the state, by a purely artificial mechanism but that does not change for nothing the socio-economic conditions that allow these municipalities to be viable, viable in the sense that they have economic activity, social dynamism, the rooting of the newer population, etc. Also, taking as an example this, two municipalities – or it is intended – are merged from one pivot on Forcarei and The Road, where they have their points of commercial, educational, judicial, etc., and another pivot on Pontevedra. And it's obvious other alternatives that would complement them better and that above all they are part of, let's say, the historical tradition of the same as Sardinian with respect to Forcarei or the Road, as the mayor of Ponte Caldelas suggests, for example. But it doesn't seem that interesting because they're different political signs. And, ladies and gentlemen, I think we will agree that this of having a mayor of a political color at a certain point in the history of a municipality cannot be the fundamental reason, because that is circumstantial and the citizens today want and tomorrow they don't want to count on this or that party to rule their fate. The mayor of Ponte Caldelas proposed a different solution. The studies are done, they collaborate together, they work together, and from there on, we have an option that will allow us a more reasonable integration and, if I may, a more rational integration. What do we propose? Let Junta, who has competence, do a study, which in addition the data are there, from different institutes and organizations. There are precedents even for mayors of the People's Party led by the mayor of Lalin on his day, Mr. Crespo, who even commissioned a study at the University and Caixa Galicia to do a study of what they called "the Macroconcell of the Ten." It's over as it's over, but there's something already, and the Galician Union has the resources and the media, and if you have the political will, it's feasible to do a general study of the whole of Galician municipalities. For what? Not for a whim, but for the different municipalities, from below, based on this study, they decide, speaking to the neighbors, talking to the entrepreneurs, talking to the sectoral organizations of all kinds of their municipal term, making demographic projections of the future, trying to include the studies that the Galician Union does on an ad-future map of their own municipality, only or accompanied. For what? For an essential purpose: to dynamize mainly our rural environment, which is where these small municipalities are, but to provide the whole of citizenship in these municipalities with quality public services in all directions. I don't think it's that complicated. We make a series of suggestions that seem reasonable to us and of common sense. With the Wheel-Doe method of getting up in the morning and deciding that two PP mayors have to merge two municipalities simply because now it plays, for whatever reason, because it doesn't seem to be the most reasonable or the most appropriate. It seems that this is our obligation, and it is above all the Government's obligation to do a study of the country, to make ad futurum projections and to look for the formula so that this is not happening but a policy design of the whole country that allows us to recover population and activity, especially in rural areas, and the viability of merged municipalities or alone. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. For the People's Group, Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u79	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mrs Soneira, I think the first thing we should have is to know what the Socialist Party thinks; firstly, to know whether they're in favor or against mergers. Because frankly the day that the merger of the municipalities of Cotobade and Sardinia was announced the first thing we heard from the Socialist Party of Galicia was to say that this was a ghost, they began to criticize this announcement made by two mayors – who, of course, both win absolutely soberly –. And the same day in Madrid an agreement was signed by the Socialist Party with another group, Citizens, Agreement for a reformist government and progress. He will not be a reformer or a progresser, nor will he surely be a government. But they said, "To promote, in coordination with the autonomous communities, the rationalization of local entities in Spain, promoting the voluntary merger of municipalities" – which is what promotes the Junta de Galicia – "in order to effectively and efficiently offer the same level of benefits and services to all citizens, regardless of where they live". It seemed so bad to them, but I say that there are mayors of the Socialist Party who don't feel so bad, like, for example, the mayor of Ponte Caldelas, who wants to join this merger. So you should, first of all, clarify your criteria. And, on the other hand, we soon see attitudes on the part of the person who is a delegate of the mayor of Vigo in the Pontevedra Deputy who decides not to receive these two mayors, who, if they have an absolute majority – she in her group does not have an absolute majority –. But he doesn't receive them and, on the other hand, he decides to receive a platform that he's gathered to protest against the merger. I don't think it's welcome that the deputy and this person – the president of the deputy – who said he was going to have the doors open for everyone, the mayors of Cotobade and Cerdedo gave them a door. That's not having the doors open. And as follows, Your Honor, probably the Deputy of Pontevedra, instead of being the Deputy of Pontevedra, will be "the Deputy against Pontevedra." While you're still looking for a criterion to adopt before mergers – if you don't have a clear criterion – we're going to be constructive and we're going to continue working for mergers. And that is why we propose to them, with an amendment, an alternative text in which we urge the Galician Union to develop coordination between the Galician Union and the provincial deputies to promote voluntary fusion processes, and to promote signing agreements or agreements or protocols with the Greek universities so that the councils that decide on their own will be clear whether there are advantages or disadvantages to do a merger and ask them to report to universities with those parameters that you express interest in their initiative. So it's not about imposing mergers, it's about leaving the council's initiative in the exercise of its local autonomy. But, yes, encouraging those who freely and voluntarily decide to merge. The beneficiaries of all this will not be politicians, they will be neighbors – in this case of Cotobade and Sardinia – because they will have guaranteed their services and the council will have more resources. And Junta is promoting mergers not only because 2.2 million of the Local Cooperation Fund are targeted preferably for the municipalities that opt for them, but also because it is regulated by law that those municipalities that bet on the union will receive solutions from the Joint Union to bring forward such issues as new job relationships or their new inventory of goods, or even their new general plans of urbanism. The priority of these municipalities for receiving autonomous grants is also recognized by law and the management of national qualified posts that are affected by the merger process is resolved. So, ultimately, Your Honor, there are some stimulating incentives on the table for those municipalities that voluntarily decide to take the step, and to those whom the Council of Galicia, as it already has committed, will give the maximum support before, during and after the process. This is not a novelty. It is provided for in the Galician Local Administration Act that the Galician Union may establish, among other things, various merger promotion measures. Those are the ones that are being implemented by the Galician Union. And in the case of Cotobade and Sardinia this merger will allow you, in addition, to have additional income that will reach 1.5 million euros in a legislation. And besides, we also have to bear in mind – and I think everyone understands this and that all citizens are asking that there be fewer administrations and fewer municipalities, because some don't make sense separately – that they will have a lower bureaucratic cost, of course, by counting on a single municipal corporation and the savings that will entail the joint recruitment of various services and supplies. These are, therefore, economies of scale known to all. And in addition, the future Cotobade and Sardinian Council will see the weighting coefficient increased to calculate participation in state income. We therefore propose this alternative text and ask them to join it, but of course, by maintaining the philosophy that mergers be voluntary and that whatever they do is promote, encourage and facilitate them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u80	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u81	Well, the Greek municipalities and their neighbours have strongly accused the economic crisis, which is not yet seen when it will end. The disillusionment and the cuts of the Union have affected the main competences of local corporations, and discrimination and clientelism, which were already chronical before, now overcomes aggravated. The essay Democratic and Barbarian Education, by Xaquín Álvarez Corbacho, highlights the methods of the old policy of cacicism that exchange favours by votes. For example, the municipalities governed by the PP received 92.3% of the Joint Grants; more clearly, impossible. And in the mergers they follow with the old canteen, the truth is they don't hide themselves by strengthening the power of the deputies through the central government without the Junta, today, even a single update of Galicia's Local Administration Law. They covered the first paper of their government with the fusion of the Town Councils of Oza and Cesaras, where the mayor himself planted them in the media with the usual "What about me?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Because of the fiancé we know that nothing at all. And now, just before the election, they put back the terror of a new fusion: Silk-Cotobade. Look, this division that is being done does not compare with the mergers that took place in the 20th century in Galicia –19, including that of Bouzas, Lavadors, Oza, Canedo.... Feijóo's propaganda almost always exaggerates the reality of the municipal paralysis to distract from the problems of financing the municipalities and the public sector that pay the broken plates of the private debt of the bank and of the tax evasioners and looters who nested next to the PP. Mergers are nothing more than another seductive debate. Any analysis would be of the Joina's claims about the reformulation of the local administration shows that the population dispersal would be accentuated by increasing the territorial area that would have to attend to the new councils. In Galicia, the over-the-counter cost of public services is not corrected by the fact that these services are provided by larger municipalities than they do today after a possible municipal map management process, which, of course, is neither expected nor expected. Now, any mind at least furnished would propose formulas for collaboration and cooperation between municipalities, maintaining the administration of proximity. The People's Party pointed out by law from Madrid that the longer the administration of people, the better, seriously compromising the management of municipal services in the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants, the most dispersed; a particularly damaging measure for Galicia, where there are a total of 293 municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants, 93% of the total. So it was a measure that ended with local autonomy in Galicia to make it dependent on an entity as antidemocratic as the deputation. With you in the Government, Rajoy has reinforced the role of deputies. And these obsolete institutions, instead of disappearing, go from simple cooperation to the direct provision of services to citizenship in the municipalities involved. The People's Party is fully aware of the dismantling it is doing in the public sector with the sole purpose of introducing the management of large corporations, a last niche of market for its friends who are quick to prepare for looting local social services, water services, garbage, lighting, roads, etc. At the top of Sogama's canon we have the example. They didn't even give the local authorities the chance to be heard in that decision. I don't know if this is the future that awaits the neighbours and neighbours of the municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants who prepare the People's Party. One last question before the end: aren't matters relating to parishes or districts dealt with in the Union? Or are you waiting for them from Madrid to give them permission to deal with these matters? Because really Galicia already has an organizational structure that responds to all needs without needing to promote and force the merger of municipalities. We have metropolitan areas, we have natural districts, which can function as coordinated entities that respond to the needs of citizenship by keeping the local administration close to citizens, not moving it away from them. In conclusion, the Government of Feijóo can no longer rectify an irrational drift in which it is involved when facing local restructuring. The citizenry expressed its discontent in the polls and the doors are open to a new stage of change also for the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we're in the future, there's a change going on that goes far beyond the simple electoral campaign. There's a change that also leads us to think of another organization for Galicia, an organization without deputies, an organization based on natural districts. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u83	Well, good morning to all and all. The initiative we are commenting on today, the motion, has one of the most controversial aspects, which requires fundamental analyses, reflections on pauses and scientific studies as well: land management along with the governance models of that territory. In the inquiry presented in the previous plenary session and in Rueda's response, it was evidenced that there was no rigor in Mr. Rueda's response and that a clear diagnosis was missing, that there was no real counterposition, virtues and advantages regarding the current situation of the municipal map of Galicia, which is far from clear. The absence of such a diagnosis and consistent planning is reflected even in Mr. Rueda's conceptual error in his statements, in which he confused and became synonymous with "merging" with "intermunicipal cooperation". And we understand, of course, that it's not the same as an intermunicipal cooperation. Mr. Rueda even failed at the beginning that implicitly implies fusion. The merger is supposed to be animated by a need to improve social and territorial cohesion through the provision of quality public services for these neighbours and neighbours; an improvement that would also be evidenced, according to the dominant speeches, by a reduction in the economic costs derived from that provision. So we don't understand how Mr. Rueda can say that merging is to bring up the same level of service delivery. We understand that it is not for that but to improve the existing eaves precisely which cause the need for fusion. The economic incentive argument must not be the indication of voluntary merger. Only voluntary merger cannot come through economic incentives. There's no work to be done, which is on the map of comarcacalization, on the map of the Galician regions. Of course, a confused, limited definition is left, a precarious role in the organization of the territory, without defined operational functions and competences. Why does it not advance in comarcalization in public transport, waste treatment, fire extinguishing service, beach cleaning, etc.Is that what you're talking about? There are institutional organic structures that are aggregated by justification and produce a overlap and competitiveness, do not produce cooperation, produce competitiveness and prevents the endocentric look of localism. The political-administrative structures with competences in urbanism and land management for urban areas in Greece hardly respond to the dynamic, social and economic needs that citizenship needs. Let us repeat: merger is not the same as intermunicipal cooperation. If the merger is carried out with a look at reduced costs of municipal services, you will need to analyze whether this is really the case and determine whether we are no longer facing a structural problem of financing and competitive breakdown – for example through the appearance of deputies – and check through serious reports that the economy is actually beneficial to the citizen by merging. Let's think of two municipalities with scattered population nuclei. The merger does not eliminate the said dispersion; on the contrary, in order not to force the part of the citizenship of that merged municipality to painful displacements that it would not have to perform before, the merger must maintain two administrative units to meet the needs of people. And we're not just talking about providing public services, about the exercise of democracy. So our understanding points out that we have to contextualize analytically and not fall into the error of application by analogy with formulas that can give results in other countries, in other latitudes, and that respond to anthropological outlines and occupation of space that are really different from the reality of Greece. So we have to analyze well and, therefore, we agree with the motion made by the Socialist Party to request a study, because that's what fails. And right now in the words, they said, "No, let the universities do it." Home!, the Galician Union will have something to say in this respect, because, if not, why are you here? And working on socio-economic, demographic, levels of quality and administrative public services, the potential integration of areas, etc., all that is required in this initiative, which we logically share. But we have to specify and clarify, that what has not been done was to work, precisely, on the map of districts of Galicia, which is where one should work to, precisely, promote inter-municipal cooperation, which is where one should actually walk. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ron. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Of course, the Government of the People's Party policy in relation to our administrative and territorial map is rather picturesque. Although we have the powers recognized in the Statute of Self-Government, not only have these powers been exercised, but it has even been allowed, through the so-called Law on the Rationalization of Local Administration, of the State, to be flagrantly breached in terms of the definition of the administrative and territorial framework of our country. But it's also picturesque because the people's party's policy, in relation to the territorial and administrative map of our country, appears every four years, curiously always in the last full session prior to an autonomous election process. We remember just as in 2012, in the last debate of the state of the nation of the previous legislation, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, who had nothing more important than to announce to us that day in that debate of the state of the nation, took out of the joke the fusion of the Town Councils of Oza dos Ríos and Cesuras. And now, precisely with that temporal and electoral parallelism, Mr. Núñez Feijóo and also Mr. Rueda are drawing the fusion of the counties of Cotobade and Sardinian. All this without the fact that by means of these four years, the Union has done absolutely nothing to define a policy as to how the provision of services should be, what the level of service provision should be, what is a serious analysis of the actual cost of services for the municipalities, and so on. All this time, during these four years, the only decision that the People's Party made was another decision – which was no longer picturesque, but rather rather rather by reason of the aberrant – to introduce into all orders of aid intended for municipalities that would be dominated, through the scoring, in an exaggerated way those who presented joint projects; that is, in an order of job creation the least was how many jobs if they were created and what quality jobs they had been created, but what was worth was that it was carried out among several municipalities. And so we could put many other examples. So in this area too, the politics of the People's Party was non-existent except this propaganda and the frivolity that you spend on merging municipalities on the eve of successive electoral processes. Look, for four years ago, that the merger of Oza and Cesaras has been announced, for several years since this transfer was formalised, from this Parliament the People's Party has never brought any balance of what it has reported positive to the citizens, to the neighbors and neighbours of that new council, that merger, what I have assumed in terms of saving by comparing the cost-benefit, cost-quality, of the different public services, ultimately what are the advantages and the potential drawbacks of that merger. Now they come to us with this one of Cotobad and Sardinian, and repeating Mr. Moreira the same mantra of the economies of scale. Look, there's been no evidence of economies of scale here. Look, the merger specifically of Cotobade and Sardinian municipalities is going to give rise to a territory of nearly 230 square kilometers, with a chilly 187 nuclei of population, and does anyone really want to go out to this gallery and say that by the fact that they merge if they're going to collect the garbage or are going to lend any other cheaper service and more effective way to 187 population nuclei and that this will be beneficial to the citizens, so, just by the art of bilibyirloque? Then what are the criteria for mergers? Because here, when you talked about this more or less seriously, you always put the limit of the 5,000 inhabitants. Look, do you know, in Ourense's central massif, how many municipalities do you have to gather to gather 5,000 inhabitants? Chandrexa de Queixa, Manzaneda, Vilarino de Conso, Trives and Río. They make the frying pan of nearly 800 square kilometers of territory. And that's economies of scale, when we're going to have a result of over two hundred nuclei of population and some by mountain lanes away from each other in over a hundred kilometers?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u87	Is that a economies of scale and that is benefiting interests? Look, if you really want to talk about land-use management, resource optimization, service provision to citizens, you bring here a serious proposal, which starts with the elimination of Members, to really study what services the municipalities must provide to the citizens living in different parts of the territory. And from there we can start talking. And, Mr. Moreiras, since you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u88	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u89	...ask whether we're in favor of or against the city council mergers, I'll answer you. Depends, I think it might be more reasonable for them to propose to merge my county, Barbados, which is stuck...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u90	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u91	...to Ourense, that there is no solution of continuity with Ourense, that they propose me to merge Sardinian and Cotobade, because the incidence for their neighbours and neighbours...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u93	...is certainly more positive in the first case than in the second. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u94	Thank you. Motion author group. Mrs. Soneira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u95	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, the importance given to this matter by the Government of Greece is that the main head of the Public Administration of Galicia is not interested in a debate that is fundamental, fundamental. Allah! And the second conclusion I draw from this debate is that the People's Party is afraid. You're afraid a serious study will call into question the "PPfusions," you understand? Because we even have an example there. In Oza-Cesuras, none of the apriorisms that sold us here was fulfilled. So, what do you want me to say? As I have little time, I'm not going to get rid of myself. Look, this is an occurrence. Yes, I'm telling you, it's an occurrence. Because it's not to be in favor or against, I subscribe to what Mrs. Peace just said. Depends on which places and what conditions. And it will be to change the conditions. To repeat the same scheme and that within ten years we are again under 5,000 inhabitants, we increase the territory but there is no economic activity, that the only thing that we have is abandoned being fed from the fire every time... if you think that's the solution, because there you are. Now, on the amendment, look, Mr. Moreiras, sincerely, do we really have to tell the Union that it is developing coordination between the Galician Union and the Greek Provincial Deputies in promoting voluntary merger processes? Are you kidding me? Well, sorry, do you really read what you wrote? I don't know if you wrote it or if Mr. Rueda told you. Then they tell us: "Promoting the signing of agreements or protocols of collaboration with the Greek universities to, upon request of those municipalities that show interest in addressing a voluntary municipal fusion process, to develop technical studies", etc. But what do you think, you want them to remove local autonomy? But if that can be done by the Town Councils tomorrow morning, without need of the board. We asked for something else. We ask the first head of the Public Administration in Galicia to do a study where the municipalities, freely and according to what this study says, opt for what they want. That's right, speaking first to the neighbors, because, of course, you said... I think in Sardinia and Cotobade you get there, you say good days and you know the old man: What, how's the merger going? How's the merger going? Do you believe that? If they found out by the press, if they found out by the press!, if there were constables of the People's Party who found out when Mr. Rueda gave the news, if they didn't know the members – I don't say the opposition – of the government, of the municipal groups of the People's Party, in both municipalities! Tell me about it! We don't accept it, because besides ours, what it says is that the studies are done. If Junta wants to collaborate with universities, with deputies, which is common sense, she has autonomy to do so, it's not to be put here. So let's say, together, do a study, and do it at least in those fields that we've marked. And if the Lalín Council was able to seek the cooperation of the university and the funding of Caixa Galicia, don't you tell me that the Galician Union is not able to achieve at least the same. So we didn't accept it and left the text as it was, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. G.P. motion. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure that no person or family is defeated in Galicia of their habitual residence
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u97	No amendments were tabled. To formulate the motion, Mr. Fajardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u98	Good morning to all and to all. From the AGE Parliamentary Group we present a motion that has to do with one of the biggest dramas in this country and the state as a whole, which is that of the people who lose their homes. A worthy country should be a country that guarantees, at least, those rights that it has in its magna letter, and this is one of the rights that are contemplated in the Magna Charter but that no government until now has done anything for it to be a real right and not just a declaration of intent. Not only that, but that for a long time has been legislating against people's rights to live but in favor of those who speculate, who use the dwelling not as something necessary but as a purely speculative good. So we'll be able to see how we'll see that whoever defends the majority group of this House is surely opposed to this position of the people who accumulate most of the housing that we're here in this whole House. Therefore, interests are different between those who have a single dwelling and defend that dwelling and those who use the dwelling as a mere speculative element by amassing a lot of living simply with that objective. The first thing to make clear is that we have to eliminate the structural policy that governs the Council of Galicia and the State on housing. It's hard to understand that in this country we don't even have a public housing park in decent rent. We all remember how during the real estate boom in the municipalities that 10% of profit was always monitored by the municipalities to do works the mayor's greatest honour and it was not taken into account to keep that percentage of housing that today assumed a fundamental element for the entire citizenship of this country to have access to public housing by the institutions that could contemplate it. But those who ruled historically not only the country, but most of the municipalities and of course the state were concerned about other things; as for example it was shown in Madrid selling public housing directly to empty funds. In Galicia the problem has not disappeared, but the problem is changing. And we also have to report that it disappears from the media focus because today it's very difficult for an eviction to happen with thousands of people on the street avoiding it, because for this too the People's Party has introduced the Mordaza Law, which has caused a lot of people who have been defending their neighbours so they wouldn't be thrown out of their homes to end up paying judicial sentences and stratospheric fines to defend the common good, which is that all people in this country have a home. I say it's changed because there's a paradigmatic case of how the effect of housing loss has to do with the degradation of the living conditions of this country's set of people. During the month of January, the first evictions are already taking place in Galicia, not only in a residence but in people who rent a room, people who are incapable of even having a home, who have a rented room and are displaced because they cannot afford that room. Or how, for example, increases exponentially. With regard to mortgage defiances, the defiances due to the failure to pay the rent. Almost all the evictions that are made because they cannot pay the rent are made in rents under 350 euros. We are faced with a class struggle problem for those who accumulate everything, housing, economic capacities, against those who can't even afford a housing of less than 350 euros. That has a lot to do with a country where there are twenty-one percent unemployment or where one-third of the workers earn less than the minimum wage, even though the president-in-office said a few days ago on a television channel that very few people in this country paid the minimum wage. It's an indignity that the highest responsibility for the state as a whole doesn't know that it's one third of the employees in this country who earn less than the minimum wage. And, therefore, these situations are given to you that you can't keep a decent housing in decent conditions. The problem doesn't go away. Seven evictions a day, three-quarters of these housed evictions, not as usual. But above all someone will have to explain why there's this poll on the part of the governments of turn to hide the figures and not to be clear, and not to be able to say which ones are habitual housing. Why has this study never been done or why has the study never been done, for example, of what is the number of empty dwellings in the country as a whole or, for example, how many societies accumulate hundreds of dwellings in their possession? Among these are people who cannot afford a rented room within a shared housing, because the flats are already given in Galicia as a regular element among residents, non-residents, between migrants and non-emigrants, it turns out that there are societies that accumulate hundreds of empty housing simply waiting for a speculative moment. Even Sareb, an element that is used with everyone's resources, is waiting for certain real estate processes that give him economic advantage to put housing on the market, when what they would have to have is that public welfare goal of giving a necessity to those families who cannot afford their housing. So what we want is, first, that this public housing park is established to rent and that it is also regulated in a stricter and more controlled way the subject of mortgage laws; above all, in urban soils. Because what there is is a deregulation so brutal that what caused it is that the help in renting for families, which sells Junta as the great solution, in many cases the only thing that means is that the price of renting for those families is increased exactly in the same amount as you get help for these families. By the way, you have absolutely little help and for those who have to contribute with absolutely draconian conditions and with a bureaucratic process that many families can't even afford. So what we want to leave on the table is, once again, that the problem hasn't disappeared, as much as people want to look like we're in another situation. I used to say here a spokesperson for the People's Party that we were in a virtuous circle of the economy. So virtuous that seven people every day lose their lives, that's the virtuosity of an economy seen from the focus on the right, of the People's Party, which has other interests than those of the social majority. So that virtuous circle should be so virtuous enough for any of us, any of the families in this situation in the country, to have access to that housing. So it's not only a makeup aid policy, but it's changing structural conditions and so any family has guaranteed that their rights in that situation will be defended. And we are therefore faced with a lifting policy on the economic situation, which remains on the surface of the figures, but does not go to the particular drama of families, of people, of workers, of workers, who cannot even guarantee this reality. So let us hope that, if they have a minimum of humanity, they will be able to support this initiative of the Alternative Gaga de Left and, in any case, we wait for the second turn to clarify some of the issues, which surely those who have a lot of housing will again say here that this is a problem that does not exist. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u99	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u100	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. On the subject we are dealing with right now, the effectiveness of the Union has left much to be desired, it has not been able to respond to this grave need of society, a great structural problem. You've shown yourself a lot of publicity and a lot of boom, but there's still no convincing solution. It was not avoided that in 2015 2,432 releases were carried out, that almost seven families were lost every day, despite the decline of mortgage executions and defiances, of the data provided by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia through the General Council of the Judiciary's Statistical Service. Since 2008 there have been 16,000 mortgage executions in the four provinces of Greece. Mortgage reallocations were 43 last year and there were 167 direct home benefits to families in a situation of great difficulty. Most of the evictions carried out in the year 2015 were the result of procedures derived from the Law of urban leases for rent default. They were, in particular, 1,507; 800 were related to mortgage executions and other 225 were related to other causes. Since 2012, Junta has assumed that it has 12 measures, which have already commented on us in the previous plenary, to avoid and to overcome the mortgage defeats or for rent default, but these figures speak for themselves. And here, just like the rest of the state, there's an insufficient stock of housing for social rent, which does not exceed the whole state, 2%, well below the European Union average, which is 9%. This requires a 180-degree shift in housing policy, a rotation that has to start. This lack is the cause of lower and very unequal socio-economic development, if we compare it to the importance of acquiring social rent in other residential systems in states, for example, of the European Union that are more developed and less unequal. We speak of Finland, 16%; France, 17%; the United Kingdom, 18%; Austria, 23%. The mobilization of empty housing towards social rent emerges as one of the housing policies that urgently needs society and the environment. And if we're talking about the present, and if we're talking about the present, one of the star measures is the famous bonus-renting; aid from this urgent program that is intended to care for the living units affected by a rejection procedure due to the lack of payment of the rents of their usual housing, allowing access to a new rental contract, or even avoiding the actual launch of the housing. Here, too, we have to say that we benefit from another series of collectives for this aid. But this help has a few traps, because it's pretty restrictive. In fact, it's only given a twelve-month help that can be extended another year, by 150 euros; or given a higher amount when you have to make a single payment or, if you don't change your housing, attend pending receipts. The spending commitments made by Junta on the social lease bond are very few. We speak this year of 1.4 million euros, in the next year of 1.6 and 2018 of only one million; that is, it's very ridiculous the amount. This year, the decree regulating the census of empty dwellings, where registration in the census will be compulsory for all unemployed real estates that are part of collective residential buildings or real estate complexes located in municipalities of more than 100,000 inhabitants, where they are owned by credit institutions, real estate subsidiaries, asset management entities, including those coming from banking restructuring, to be employed in social policy planning. These dwellings are important that bring Sareb closer to the goal of strengthening attention to social needs related to housing, and its commitment to prioritize areas where there has been a greater need for the progressive transfer of empty housing to the Union, in order to address them to social rents. And it's important, above all, because we need to strengthen the places where there's a higher accredited social demand. If we know that in the census we can also record private homes, municipalities or other legal persons. We consider that apart from the aid, which is currently very scarce, communication is also lacking. We understand that there must be a joint and coordinated work since June with Fegamp, with the judiciary, social agents, associations and other social groups related to this subject, because it is a serious, very serious problem. And we also go back to examples that work. Because, for example, of the famous rental bonus if you know, and the board has a record, that does not reach all social groups. This, in fact, is one of the great demands of associations dedicated to the defiances. And I also comment on other measures that have taken large cities, such as the action protocols for social services to be informed in cases of special vulnerability, before the actual launch of housing. We are going to support this motion because we understand that the points in question are essential, and we have to start working now, because we are talking about a great structural problem that is not unique, unfortunately, in the face of the crisis in which we live, unemployment and precarious working conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. For the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u102	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Fajardo, the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, as it could not be otherwise, will support this non-law proposal to urge the Council of Galicia to take all appropriate measures to ensure that no person or family from Greece is excluded from their homes when this is their usual home. We support the four measures proposed in this GNP because it coincides with several initiatives which the BNG Parliamentary Group has already claimed in this Parliament. You will remember, ladies and gentlemen, that last January 26th, from this very place, in the name of the Parliamentary Group of the BNG, I advocated a non-law proposal to guarantee the right to a decent housing and to avoid the terrible consequences of the evictions in Galicia; PNL to guarantee the right to a worthy housing, to comply with the Vigilent Legislation, which proclaims the right to a decent and adequate housing, as well as the duty of the public authorities to promote the necessary conditions and the relevant regulations to make this right effective; the right to housing which is within the competence of the Government of Greece, as set out in Article 27.3 of the Statute, but which is also collected in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the Treaty of the European Union. Right if contemplated in the legislation but not done in Galicia, which was not performed on more than 10,000 occasions in the Feijóo era, 10,000 evictions continue to plague our conscience and 10,000 lamentable permanent defeat dramas well for mortgages, well for rent. Unfortunately, if we count the avalists of these 10,000 affected we could be talking about more than 20,000 people in a permanent drama that the Greek Government of the Faijó era was unable to cut, he was not able to guarantee that fundamental right recognized in the vigil law. Unfortunately, the German Government has not been able to guarantee the right to housing or to stop these more than 10,000 evictions or to shorten the social emergency we are living in, where social inequality is growing more and more; the rich, the rich, and the poor, the poorer. Ladies and gentlemen, the Union has not been able to guarantee the right to a decent housing because Mr. Feijóo's policy at home is continued cut. It's just that the 451B housing access program in this 2016 budget is worth 14.8 million euros to invest, when in 2009 it was looking at 108.7 million. So it's a cut of about 90%, 95 million euros less devoted to housing. So in spite of the words of the adviser the full past, when it was questioned here, in spite of this dozens of measures that have repeated to us, in spite of the words that have repeated that the Board owns 2,800 housing in rent, the words remain in words, as those who work and defend the refugees, who say they sign agreements, protocols, plans, programs and even agreements in 2013 to help people in situations of special vulnerability. Three years later, according to them, everything remains on wet paper because there are still complaints, complaints and complaints in the press of people who are being denied every day. On March 16 in Vigo a woman sleeping for two weeks at the bus station with the children in charge of the family so they can be paid attention. On March 19 in Ourense, San Cibrao das Viñas, a victim of gender-based violence, with a minor child with a degree of dependence on autism, in the same condition. In the same month in Ferrol three defeated couples were announced from their homes. The reality is that the Union, while there are many, many, many, many desperate families -- even though the drama of many who do not have access to housing -- remains unable to guarantee these fundamental rights. I'm not the one in the council or the one to occupy the housing that's owned in the IGVS and that's empty. See the case of Lugo reported a short time ago in the press in the area of Tinería. For this reason – and I will end – I will support the initiative to ensure that no person or family from Galicia is excluded from their habitual residence. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u103	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, gentlemen. Well, we too are going to support, as could not be otherwise, and consistent with other support and other initiatives that we ourselves present both in this plenary and in Commission 2a, the proposal put forward by the AGE Parliamentary Group, although I must acknowledge that we prefer a higher level of realization. I'm not going to extend some details because many of them have already been commented on here in previous interventions, but some if I'd like to say. It is true that the number of evictions produced in Galicia since Mr Feijóo is president of the Union, from April 2009 to April 2016, is likely to exceed 17,000, in any case, around 17,000, with an average of more than 2,500 each year. They're right and right, and coincidentally with what we have. The data provided here are the discards produced in 2015. And this contrasts with the data offered in this House itself by the Counsellor, who talks about the relocation of 400 families since 2009; 400 families and 17,000 evictions, the proportion is 1 per 40. We're talking about the twelve measures that are in place in the Union of Galicia. It's also about the rental bond. And I have to make some reference to this subject. Galicia practically does not have housing parks on the lease of public ownership worthy of that name. There are exactly 2,800, i.e. 0.15% of the residential park. This contrasts with the figures from other European countries, even from cities like Vienna, which are almost 50%; here, 0.15%. Therefore, a notoriously insufficient figure which was compensated through the Council's aid and through the control exercised by the Council itself over the floors offered for rent. Today that's replaced by the rental bonus. The question is, who do we subsidize? The one who rents the floor, the citizen who has no housing or the citizen who pays the rent? And in many cases we're subsidizing what rent costs and not what real housing demands. That's like the debate in the Madrid Community about whether to do public childhood schools or give a check on the children to go to a private childhood school. So here's what we give them is the check for them to go to a private childhood school. By the way, this number of refugees, beyond what Mr. Castineira then says, contrasts with the 311,000 empty homes in our community, according to the data from the National Institute of Statistics. But one of the great problems we have, ladies and gentlemen, and I refer to the intervention of Mr. Fanda's advisor, is the budget fiction to which we have always attended. Budgets are planned but are not implemented later. And the paradigm of all of this is what happens to housing policy, and specifically to heading 451A. Last year 53% is still running, only 47% has been executed. And don't you think it was an exception, it's been the best year since Niñez Feijó's rule. Not only did it fall from 56 million in 2009 to 23, but it dropped from 82% in 2008, from 75% in 2009, to 47% in 2015. And it was the best year, because in 2014, ladies and gentlemen, it was 8%; and in 2013 it was 1%, it was 98.7% not executed. In 2012 it was 12%, in 2011 13% and in 2010 it was 10%. I mean, it looks like it's on paper and then it's not spent. In total, more than 300 million euros don't run these years and 16,000 families losing their homes. It was for there to be cessations, and surely there will be them, but not exactly because of what they had to do, that is not to give the person who needs them home by having available public resources that are not used to accomplish that purpose. And, Mr. Castineira, if the data seems bad to you, give us the good ones, who have been giving them seven years and now give us nothing but excuses.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u105	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez Bugallo. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. Bugallo, you've been given the explanations and here's the low level of budget execution and there's been no cessations that should actually exist. There should be when Mr. Zapatero in 2008 demanded... No, but Mr. Bugallo knows why, he knows why these 44.7 million live plans 2005-2008 that Mr. Zapatero said they would be executed at 100 percent, that they would be referred to communities, and there they are and appear in that inexecutable budget line. [[Protests.]] But in Mr. Zapatero's budgets they appeared executed. But you gave them the explanations, asked them and gave them. And they were given a show, but still they're still manipulating. And that doesn't suit you, it doesn't fit your personality, Mr. Bugallo. That's manipulating, blatantly manipulating something that you have clear knowledge, of course! which is that game and the problem that was there in those years. And besides, you've been a public manager, you've been mayor, and you know perfectly well that there are games, such as rehabilitation cases or in-house games, which are not executed entirely in one year, but budgeted in the following years. You also know, you know perfectly well how execution is. That is, if we look at the budget execution of the Bipartite, of course, to begin with almost 50% were studies, programs, reports and staff. Of course, only in the rental office, in the office, in the staff, was spent more than 50% of the budget that the office had. Or in projects and studies that were logically given to those who were interested, and there's some very well-known surname architect who had many of these reports. Of course, we make a social housing plan where we put studies into historical helmets and in certain areas of the cities where 3 million euros were spent, only in reports and studies. That was Bipartite housing policy. It's there, if you want to talk about it, if you want to talk about it, we're talking about the number of dwellings that have increased in that housing park. Well, look, yes, there's a housing park, 3,000 public housing, public promotion, which is available and rented all. You too, Mr. Pombo, if you would like to talk about the Lugo Winery. They're in the process of adjudicating the empty ones, Mr. Pombo. And by the way, it's very good that you go with your future candidate, apparently, to Tinería taking pictures. But don't forget that this project began in 2001, at the time of the People's Party. It wasn't a BNG project like they were trying to sell, not much less. No, Mr. Pombo, no. That area of Tinería, of which we are proud... the part that has been made, not how it is being taken by the Town Hall, which is the current social situation in that neighborhood, which is really demeaning. And maybe even there we've come together in that situation. But, look, that's not the fault of the Galician board but who's in the Town Hall right now, and it's been fifteen years - by the way, supported by you. See, housing measures for Galician Union in 2015. It will always seem little to us, because you have already told the advisor the other day in your presence that, while a single family for economic reasons remains without a housing, there will be worry and always will be a lot, but for economic reasons, because here what AGE proposes does not set limits, it clearly sets without any, ordinary living, that can be any, and I think that there must put limits, and that's why the good rent is for those families who are really in need, not for any, much less. Junta has 3,000 homes; therefore, there is a housing park. That we want to expand it, because I think it's okay. And there will always be little help to the people and families in need. You plan the development of a new program for the prevention of evictions and shocks, and we have to say clearly, with an initiative just approved last week, in which they asked to implement the information measures of existing measures and existing programmes by the Board. If we're going to spend money on reporting more of the programs and coordinating programs that exist for Together, they're not so bad. You yourself were saying there was a need for more information, and we agreed that it's important that these programs are known and that's why you implement those measures. But they were validating those programs and, in fact, I'm convinced they're giving their fruit. And the lease bond, indeed, is a bond that's working and that's a very important help. And, look, family measures in 2015: 6,387 families have benefited from housing support in renting, from measures from the Galician Union, and for this year this is expected to increase and is expected to exceed 6,500. It's EUR 13 million dedicated to that rental and rental aid policy. I mean, therefore, you can't say...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u107	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u108	...not much less, that nothing is being done. Doesn't it look like anything? Always. As long as there's a defeated family, we'll be worried and Together will work. And we are convinced that the Council and the Counsellor will work and seek measures at all times to favour and reduce that number of evictions. Yesterday he signed an agreement with the College of Lawyers, so it's meant to be reduced just before they go to trial and look for arbitration formulas and look for solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u109	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u110	And they're even talking about a little less intervention, because they're talking about modifying the law of urban leases with a clear intervention by the public authorities. Home!, what I would also like to say is that the policy of defiance is not only of the Unity of Galicia, it is essentially of the Board in the matter of housing, but the municipalities also have a responsibility in social matters and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u111	Finish it, Mr. Castineira. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u112	...I would like – I remember, Mr. President – that the great councils, such as Ferrol, La Coruña or Santiago, governed by the Tides, or Vigo by the Socialist Party, of course, were not only engaged in promises in the electoral campaign and editing a booklet...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u113	Thank you, Mr. Castineira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u114	...that's the only thing they've done in the last nine months.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u115	Thank you. Motion author group. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u116	The fact that the spokesperson who always elects the PP for these issues is an obvious explanation of how there is a clear disparagement with the problem on the part of the People's Party. It's very difficult to be empathetic about something when, because of the public data we've all registered in taking over, it's the one who lives on property. It is a fact that is public, that is known and obviously does not assume that it is a problem that lives the rest of society. It is tremendous that it is said that there is no problem when every day seven people are left without their housing. And so you have no initiative, no interest in it being eliminated, which has used more than half of its turn to tell us what is always in the bipartisan debate, which is the fault of the Bipartite, it was Mr. Zapatero's fault, but they do not assume the responsibility of a People's Party that put the housing as a speculative element and not as an element of social benefit. The Rat law had the consequence it had, the real estate bubble and so on. Even the People's Party was the one who posed that possibility of capitalizing 10% of the profit, when in that 10%, if they were left with the housing, we would be in another situation. I'm very sorry that you read what the advisor says, but don't read the AGE initiative. Because we want a public housing park to rent for everyone, when we say it's social housing... are you going to ask for a social housing? Do you live in social housing? Are you going to ask for it? Are you going to ask for a social housing? No, right? They're going to ask each of those people who are unemployed. And to say that it's a success that 6,000 families are being cared for in social rent in one year when we have 200,000 people in unemployment of which 100,000 don't charge a euro, because you tell me what the reality is, or 1% of social housing in rent we have in this country. So the first thing that the People's Party has to assume is that there's a problem that you seem to be as if you weren't. And why? Because they're interested in looking somewhere else. If there was no such problem, you wouldn't make a law, the law bites, to condemn, persecute and suppress those who defend people who are defeated. Because that's what the law says bites. How many people are in legal proceedings today and with multi-millionaire fines simply to defend that a family has lost their home by law that it has signed and approved the People's Party? That's a reality, that's a reality, that's what you're defending. And, yes, there's no one in jail yet to defend vulture funds, those funds that were sold to people of the People's Party for rent, that's the reality of the People's Party. And, look, one is already getting a little tired of being asked to the municipalities of change that in nine or ten months solve the country's problems. But you've been ruling for nine years! For every month, you've been doing nothing for a year, and it turns out that the problem now is the municipalities of change, which in nine months have done virtually nothing. Well, at least in Santiago they don't go out every month on corruption issues. That's a reality that's above the table. I've been planning that what our initiative says is quite simple: increasing the acceptable level of housing in social rent that has to have this country, which doesn't have it, which doesn't reach even 1%. It seems absolutely reasonable to us. You talked here about something that started in 2001. If they haven't done anything since 2001 until 2016, of course there's little intention. And then you solve the structural problem, which is the bottom line of this issue. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u117	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. G.P. motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the regulatory development and changes to be introduced by the Government of Galicia in Law 2/2014, of 14 April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u118	This motion was tabled an amendment by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u119	To formulate the motion you have the floor to Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to congratulate the people who accompany us on behalf of the organizations that defend the LGTBI people and regret the absence of Mr Rueda's Vice-President in this debate, whom we are discussing precisely for the observance of this law, and who is also responsible for developing it in the Government; the absence of this debate, as was absent from the debate on reform of the local administration or in the debate on rejections; three issues which we consider, of course, that are important and in which the Government should not be absent in this Parliament. When we did the debate of this interpellation in the past plenary, Mr. Rueda accused the socialists of bringing this interpellation to check to what extent the German Government is complying with Law 2/2014 on LGTBI people; they accused us of being politically involved in bringing this debate to Parliament and of not making the law ourselves when we were in the Government. It seems that when we were in the last Government of Galicia the socialists, in those only four years, we had to have made all the laws that could happen to any that should be done, because, if not, we did not make a good Government, and therefore any bill that we brought now, because we consider it to be present, that it is a social demand, that there are collectives asking it, because we didn't have to bring it, we had to bring it back when we were in the Government, because we had to have brought them all. That was the first argument. And the second was that we were actually doing politics, because, of course, this is not the Galician Parliament, this must be, because, I don't know, something else, but it is not, apparently, the Galician Parliament, and the opposition groups, we have no right to take control of the Government and of the commitments that the Government acquires when a law is passed here, because I have to remember that this law was passed on April 14, 2014 without any vote against, with all the groups of the House present, and that it has been adopted to develop it and to implement it. And, therefore, if the Socialist Group, which was the intellectual author of the bill that gave rise to this law, is concerned at the observance of this law, it would seem that we are in the exercise of our functions as a parliamentary group, but no, it seems not so. Then, during the debate, he also finally recognized the slow pace in execution, in the development of this law -- we would say that there is no -- and, since he had no substantial data to offer from the balance of compliance with this law, he announced something that was not anywhere, but that the Government can actually put into action at any time, of what we rejoice, because it is part of the law. He announced that an aid order was to be put in place for the collectives working with the LGTBI people. At least by raising this debate two years after the vigil of the law, we have achieved something, we have already managed to get Mr. Rueda to worry about coming here to announce something and to announce an order of help. Well, welcome on that announcement. He also told us some things that are inaccurate, not to mention they are lies; for example, he told us that the Greek Government was meeting with all the collectives that represent LGTBI people, absolutely inaccurate. There was only one councilman from the Greek Government – that is, of the members of the Greek Government sitting at the Council of the European Union – who met with one of the collectives, who represented the transsexual people, and there was only one meeting in Sergas with the Director of Assistance Processes, who had just done a work table and that eight months after meeting with the collectives, he followed that work table without doing it. There was, as announced here and even from the People's Group benches, no meeting with any health advisor. And, I insist, the only collective or collective with whom the Greek Government met was with parents and mothers of trans children, who are very well, that we thank him, but I have to remember that article 7 of the vigorant law says in its point 2: "The public authorities of Galicia will establish a fluid dialogue and will collaborate with LGTBI associations and organizations and collectives." With all of them, which is not being done today. Then Mr. Rueda also told us that through the education, health and other departments of the Government, the Department of Equality, he was developing the law. Well, we said no, that the law is not developing, despite what Mr. Rueda said here. All there is is is that in equality plans one speaks – in a few lines, but without specifying and without entering into depth – of what is, for example, the recognition of transsexual reality, of affective-sexual diversity, of gender identity and sexual orientation, but there is no such thing as today – and if not, correct me – any educational protocol established in the Autonomous Community of Galicia. And there is today – and if not, correct me – no health protocol established in the Autonomous Community of Galicia; the education and health protocol that we demanded from the socialists, because this specifies the law in the non-law proposal that was adopted a year ago unanimously in this Parliament and that a year later it will not develop. So, as there is virtually nothing done, as Mr. Rueda was unable to give a specific data, as all the answers we have requested for the Government of the Union – and we have here the last written answer on the fulfilment of this law – tell us a question as specific as: "From its entry into force, the various departments of the Council of Galicia involved in its development are working on its application in their different areas of competence" – this is the reply given to us by the Council of Galicia, also last year – as all this is not done, ladies and gentlemen, let us come back with this motion to remember what we have agreed here, not only with the law, but with the proposal not with the law of last year and now with this motion to see if we are able to agree this time, but, as I have already said in the debate of interpellation, with specific dates, we are not served generic issues that do not compromise. And what we ask is that the law be developed. How? In collaboration with the LGTBI organizations and other relevant administrations, in dialogue, with what is required by article 7 of the law and which today is not complied with. May the commitments that are acquired here be to finish before this legislation is over, which, as it depends on Mr. Feijóo, and we don't know when it will be, because you will tell me whether they are capable or not capable. And what commitments do we call for to be made urgently? For this educational protocol and that health protocol, to those that have already committed the People's Group last year, which were provided for in the law and are not developed: that these information centres to the woman – those centres of which Mr Rueda spoke that do not exist, that are 80, and that today are saturated to care for women victims of macho violence, and that now the Government of Greece unilaterally and without convening or consulting with LGTBI organizations, it is necessary to provide them with information and advice. There's no point in giving them more work for some of the centres that have already been saturated, overcrowded, with a shortage of staff, which is now in all of Galicia. No, we have to get more staff, and these staff have to be trained and specialized in LGTBI reality. It doesn't serve a course, as I was reminded this morning that people who are part of the collective, 20 hours old. It is necessary to provide these information centres to the woman with more persons and specifically trained staff. And thirdly, we're asking for something that has been claimed by the collectives and that has also claimed on your day in this Parliament the people's valet, which is that if you create a transitional identification document for transsexuals, while they do social transit and however they cannot make the modifications in the civil register of their identity credentials, basically so that they can operate normally in their daily lives and do not feel that discrimination when their registrar sex does not coincide with their gender. And, finally, at the last point of this motion, what we ask for is something that I also think is a wish for everyone, and is that the law that we made between all of us – and that is better, as we all recognize and all of us when we approved, because it does not contain everything we want, so it is the fruit of a consensus – it can be changed. Laws are not holy to which they cannot be touched; they can be modified, and in addition, if they are modified to improve them, as much better for citizenship. What can be modified for that? For two fundamental questions: First of all, to reintroduce that sanctioning procedure and infringements that would improve the law and make it easier for public rotors to be able to guarantee their compliance, because they had tools to use that they now don't have. And the second one, to contemplate that transsexual reality that has been eviated into the current law. It is true that today, and after the last two years, the people we are part of that presentation and the whole of the Members and Members we are here, we know much better about this transsexual reality and we know much better what the tools we have to make available to transsexual people to prevent them from feeling discriminated against. Those are the four requests we make to him today in this motion.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u121	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u122	I look forward to the support of the whole House group for them, because if we come to an agreement on this motion, we will actually be beginning to comply with this law that is not being developed today. Nothing else and thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u123	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Popular Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rodríguez-Vispo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all of you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I also want to welcome and greet the people who are with us and represent the LGTBI collectives. Well, as you have just said, Mrs Gallego, Parliament has approved, as a result of the political consensus of parliamentary groups, Law 2/2014, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals. A law that, of course, can have many but in its development, in its application. For some, it will be slower, for others, faster, but the biggest but we had in Galicia was the legal vacuum on this subject, and so from our group, the Popular Parliamentary Group, we want to value the fact that, thanks to this political consensus reached in this House, Galicia had become the first autonomous community in the whole state that had a law. And as you yourself said, Mrs. Gallego, and I literally collect from the Parliamentary Journal of Sessions of Galicia on April 8, 2014: "...but today fortunately it is already or will be, when the vote of all of us – and above all it will be – a law of guarantees, a law of citizenship, etc.Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh And precisely, Your Honor, this law of all of us, of all the Greeks and the Greeks, is developing, and it would not be good to try to make a partisan use of it and break with that existing consensus, because at the end of all this is to the detriment of the LGTBI people, who really care about us all. Many of the demands you make are already developing. The Education Counsellor explained in response to a question from the Galego Nationalist Block, here, in parliamentary thirst – and I read textually –: "We will present a protocol that will allow a proper response to the guarantee of the right to gender identity. The gender identity protocol wants to be a guide to involving the educational community as a whole and bringing together action guidelines directed to the educational center teams." With regard to another of your requests, of course, you are working on training, both health professionals and professionals on education. And it also works with its own students, and it's about spreading reality to LGTBI people, so that the full normality of the various sexual orientations and gender identities is achieved. From the health perspective – which you also worry about – the vice president has already explained it to you in the interpellation – I will not repeat his words – but if I want to pretend to comply with article 20 of the law. As you know, hormone therapies are being administered in endocrinology units. As for the training of health personnel, see the Training Plan for Sergas and the Health Council for 2016. And regarding the health protocol, they are working together with the General Directorate for Health Care and the Assistant General Directorate for Health Care and Quality. For the People's Group the inequality of treatment or discrimination of any Welsh or Welsh person for any reason or reason – be it age, sex, orientation, sexual, etc. – is not acceptable, and in fact, that was our philosophy in the processing of the law. We understood that it was necessary to work for the non-discrimination of LGBTI people and we understood that it was necessary to continue to work to avoid discrimination of these people. That's why we today, because we agree on the non-discrimination of LGBTI people, we present a substitution amendment that we hope you will count on your support and that you will read to them: "The Galician Parliament urges the Galician Union to continue with the development of Law 2/2014, for the equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia, and before the end of this year carry out the following actions: 1. To call for an order of aid and grants for associations that develop activities directed to the LGBTI collective, social awareness campaigns, programmes to promote social integration, activities for LGBTI people to fully develop their personality and participate in equal conditions in all areas of political, economic, cultural and social life. 2. Include a specific section that integrates the diversity of sexual and emotional genres in the First Plan of Education on Equality. 3. Organize training courses directed to professionals in the different areas that they see about sexual diversity. 4. Continue the specific training of public administration staff in LGBTI reality. 5. To adapt the administrative documents relating to transsexual persons, including the health card, while no correction has been made of their gender identity in the Civil Registry. In the educational field, each particular case will be addressed individually, so that when you pass a list in the class or give the qualifications bulletins if you respect the identity of the minor or the minor according to him or her and her family." We hope you count on your support. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Churches.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u126	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. At the moment I did not give my affirmative vote to Law 2/2014, for the equality of LGBTI people. One of the reasons – not the only one – that led me to abstention was that the previous law did not have a sanctioning regime in the articulated, eja that leaves the victims in a defence situation and that in most cases leads them to renounce the denunciation of aggression and violence directed against them. In paragraph (b) of this motion the Government is urged to amend the law for the introduction of a sanctioning procedure. That's why this motion is going to count on my affirmative vote, even though I still think that the text that was approved does not cease to be a statement of good intentions. A law that was seen in such a way – and so acknowledged by Mrs. Gallego in her intervention in the past full – modified by the amendments of the PP that, although at its very origin it was very improved, changed it – as I had previously manifested – in a mere statement of good intentions. The consideration of minorities to LGBTI people and the pathologization of their sexuality are not the starting places that I consider suitable for achieving equal rights, because pathologizing sexual diversity gives them character of risky conduct in terms of contracting certain diseases and etiquettes people according to the roles of the patriarchate. A sexual ideology that condemns homosexuality and which considers heterosexuality normal and majority, something totally false, according to the latest studies of philosophers and philosophers as accredited as Paco Vidarte and Beatriz Preciado, among others. That's why transsexuals are universally confronted with medicalization, psychopathology and/or surgery when they get, for example, a DNI where they recognize the sex they feel and not what is attributed to the genitals they were born with. Many trans people do not necessarily refuse their body and do not want to undergo psychiatric treatments, operations and reports. As for the educational aspect, and considering the school as a non-neutral space instead of the one that perpetuates and supports the roles of the patriarchal system, I again insist on the need and ideal of a co-educational system that promotes a learning that approaches and understands the female and male without predominance of any of them. And I use to comment on the board's school campaign "I respect." I think the Galician Union should ask the creators to take responsibility for their approval. On the one hand, it is difficult to understand, without prior knowledge, that the colors of the rainbow contained in the word "I" represent the collective. On the other hand, the request of respect establishes a barrier that is not integrative between those who see the LGBTI reality from outside and those who enjoy it from within. I understand that the end to which the law has been approved is that of standardization and integration. I shall nevertheless give the affirmative vote to the whole motion in the sense that it is a step forward in achieving equality in the Greek law. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u127	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u128	Thank you, President. Well, I understand that the proposals that are being moved today in the motion also relate to those recommendations derived from this appearance in February of the current people's valet when he came to account precisely of the previous Valor's report on the rights of LGBTI people. Precisely these eves which are reported here, and which were denounced by the spokesman of the Socialist Party and by the valet on that commission, because we understood that they were likely to happen when the law was passed, and that was why we abstained. We understood that the favourable position, the vote in favour of this initiative at that time by the People's Party was more a cosmetic position, since the measures that we considered most important were not taken in that process of discussion of law processing, and that in addition, as we have already stated, precisely the sanctioning part of it was removed. In fact, precisely what the motion calls for – social services and above all education and health – were the ones that were most likely to escape and above all health. At that time we, during the processing process, proposed that, we say, formative knowledge should be included or obliged to be fulfilled in the public service and should be included when a public job offer was evaluated; however, it was rejected. Public workers, because in health care, in education, have an obligation to have some knowledge and, of course, the Council of Galicia is obliged to provide it; however, it is not being that way and as much as it seems that it is included in some of the voluntary courses. It happens a bit like when we talk about the issue of gender-based violence, which then really something that is about fulfilling people's rights cannot be optional and, however, never because – let's say – it is included as something essential in the training of employees and public employees. And then we have undesirable situations, such as what happened, for example, in the homophobic aggression that took place this year in Santiago de Compostela, in which – in fact, we have moved a question to this Parliament – there has been an inappropriate treatment, because in this case the complainants denounce – worth redundancy – because by some public workers, and in this case because members of the security forces have left them unprotected, and they also consider that they have not received adequate treatment. So that public workers are trained is also the responsibility of the Galician Union. And at the health level because it was one of the proposals that this group made that we considered most important and that was the relative first one to the prevention and promotion of health in the LGBTI collective, in LGBTI people and in general, but then, in addition, the medical-surgical treatment as well as the psychological treatment of those transsexual or intersexual people who decide – because they can decide it or not – to undergo that treatment. Today this was not accepted and, as the valet itself reported in the appearance, there is no reference center for that reassignment of sex, it is not contained in the wallet, and, moreover, it also remains without a protocol for assisted reproduction that prevents women from being able to withdraw this right regardless of whether they have a male partner or not – we have discussed this in this House, right? – or simply to adapt the hormonal treatment in transsexual and intersexual people who decide to undergo such treatment. And also – we have discussed it on one occasion – the problems that it causes cannot change – as has already been explained here – the official documents of the people they appear in because with a name that does not represent them or that does not correspond to their gender identity. And so – as the valet did report, which was necessary for a transitional document – we agree with what is proposed on this initiative, since the procedure seems to change the DNI, which corresponds to the Central Government, because it is long enough to cause them sufficient prejudices until those names can be changed. And we were also congratulated that the Socialist Party included in the motion that inoperability of a law that has no sanctioning regime and that includes it in the motion, because that was precisely – there were many – the biggest reason why we decided to abstain when this law was voted, even though we knew it was positive and that it was necessary, because we understood that it was wet paper and that it gave the feeling that the People's Party wanted to do absolutely nothing, and today we see how it is not starting and how there are no tools to punish those who don't do it. Understanding this – and I don't have any more time – we could talk here, as it has already moved, of the unfortunate campaign of "I respect", which, of course, is not part of equality but of difference, and of the problem that is generated by creating the information point in the CIM, which is currently the one that informs women because especially in the face of gender violence. We're going to support the PSdeG motion. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u130	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, too, to the people who accompany us in the Hemicycle. Two years later we are not going to repeat because all the arguments why we decided to support this initiative at the moment, but it is true that we have already made light of the issues that had become more fragile or that there was a need for development. The fact is that we have seen the interpellation of the previous plenary, which is contained in the Socialist Group, which, indeed, most of the questions are awaiting their development. I mean, it's not only that they add up to this motion new issues that were already in the original text, as it can be a whole sanctioning process, but that they're also not developing fundamental issues. As the previous Members have already focused on me, I would like to focus on two issues: in the educational field, which we continue to expect to be present as it will develop – which I think is very important – this law, which we understand will be done within this equality plan that is developing the Government, and that, indeed, the campaign that is proposed for the centres, which is proposed before having discussed the equality plan itself, I also believe that it has some evidence that should be revised to be a much more inclusive campaign, more acceptance and not just about it. And secondly, the theme of the CIS. When we debate the law in this Parliament we said a clear question: who is responsible for every thing? What will be the administrative apparatus, the unit within the Greek Government that will have to develop the actions? And there was an action, which is a follow-up action, from which I understand that the Government has decided to take charge of the Secretariat of Equality, whereas the new Decree of the CIMs (from information centres to women) incorporates counseling, information, accompaniment and I understand that, if this is the case, the handling of complaints and all that is necessary of the LGBTI people. Let's think for a moment what it means to increase the volume of work for women's information centres, which are literally saturated, saturated, are infred in most cases where they exist, and in cities they are completely infreded, and now they have to assume at most a whole training that I suppose the Government of Greece can give it, but in the decree it is collected that only 50 hours are given; 50 hours of training do not seem the most appropriate program. And an accompaniment, something different, very different from the reality for which women's information centres are created. I understand that then we're talking about equality and equality of rights, but we're talking about very different realities that we have to face. So, professional trained for the promotion of equality, for co-responsibility and, fundamentally – which is the area in which they are most working – gender violence, they have to assume the development of a very important part of this law, without staff, because they continue to maintain the same professional profiles in women's information centres as in the previous decree, of course, without budget allocations to the greater and without professionals. Just as the professionals themselves do, which, as the People's Party will surely know, are they meeting and are very concerned about the subject, how will you assume this? What information are they going to give – let's imagine – to a mother or father who has a child that is transsexual? What really information? What accompaniment? Professionals, in good logic, demand that they are not trained for that. And what is this committed? Mrs. Iglesias made a very interesting reflection on the heteropatriarchy. I think we understand the concept and we have also debated it on repeated occasions, but the basic question is, indeed, even if we are in a framework of common domination, don't we?, and with variables that we share: was it necessary to include this attention to LGTBI people in women's information centres? Was that the right place? If it is considered that yes – I am not going to enter that debate, because we do not have time to answer it for the child – it must of course be like an independent unit, with independent professionals with independent training and budget allocation. I'm not going to criticise that they are there, because that's a fundamental debate that is not, that I think it exceeds this House, but, of course, that if it is, it has to be with an independent unity. And please change your name to the information centres. I don't know, I don't know what the name is, we can turn it around, but they can't be women's information centers, I don't know, there are new concepts as an intersection, whatever, but it's clear that it's a way, since it's finished the legislation, to try to figure out that if the law is being developed, and really, frankly, with women's information centers, it's making a real capuza, a real chapuza.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u131	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u132	Stop that decree, let's think about wandering around, talk to the collectives, actually, and look, if they have to be there – which I don't ideologically doubt they have to be there – in any case we design so that they can give good service to these people, with good training and good endowment. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Motion author group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u134	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, first of all, thank the opposition spokespersons for voting in favour of this motion. I'm not going to get into the disquisition now with the spokesman of the Joint Group and AGE on the vote of this law. We voted in favour of this law because we considered, in spite of the inevitability – I must remember that the original project of the Socialist Group contained a sanctioning and infringement procedure – that it was better to have a legal text that offered guarantees than to be able to take afterwards to claim its compliance or its failure to comply, in this case, to claim that it is met, that it has nothing, right? As for the People's Group, I accept the amendment as added, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, taking the first part of the explanatory statement, because I believe that what you propose here is to convene the aid order – I said it in the debate of the interpellation, with Mr. Rueda – seems good, but all the other questions you raised in this amendment of substitution to ours are under even what we approved unanimously last year. I mean, last year we were talking about the proposal for a resolution for an education and health protocol, and you don't quote them at any time, for example. And last year we were talking about dialogue with the Greek LGTBI organizations, and you're deleting it from the replacement amendment you're introducing to me. And why am I telling you this? Look, because dialogue is important, first, because it is in the law – Article 7 – for Mr Rueda, which is what has to favor the compliance and development of this law, so that you listen, because the other day he told us in the debate that he had not met with the people who formed the LGTBI groups because they had not asked him to do so. Hey, no! It just doesn't work like that. It has to be the vice president who calls on the collectives to have a meeting to see how the law develops, that meeting that I had to have had for the equality department, but not just. For example, in this decree that is being done on women's information centres to include counseling, LGTBI reality, as those who preceded me in the use of the word and myself in my first intervention, without providing more staff, why aren't you talking to LGTBI collectives, because you're not doing it. Then the law must be developed according to the collectives. And also, that the law is developed in everything that has to do with the education and health protocol, not only by talking – I insist that it is good to speak to the collectives that represent transsexual people, and I thank you – but not only, not only. The education protocol and the health protocol go to all LGTBI people, not just transsexual people. And look, Mrs. Rodríguez-Vispo, saying that if they're doing things, it's closing their eyes to reality. In the health question, just one example, do you know that in hormonal therapies the endocrine criterion is different depending on who the endocrine is and that there are hormonal blockers that are giving children and children trans at the age of 16 and in the age of 18? Well, what is asked for is a unification of criteria, what is asked is that people who are specialized and people who already have a certain experience are the ones they carry – let's say – in some way the singing voice in the protocol...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u135	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u136	...educational and health-care needs. So – I insist – we want the law to be developed with guarantees, and that's why we do it is to assume its amendment, but how it adds and never as a substitute for our text, because our text is the agreement last year and we're not going to spend two years later because we have less guarantees than we had a year ago. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u137	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Motions vote
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u138	We shall then proceed to the vote on the motions. We begin with the vote by the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to present, within two months, a reorganisation study of the local plant which is based on merger or supra-municipal cooperation initiatives. The rapporteur has already stated that he does not accept the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Soledad Soneira Tajes, on the presentation by the Government of Galicia in the Parliament of Galicia, within two months, of a reorganisation study of the local plant that serves as the basis of merger initiatives or supramunicipal cooperation The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u139	We are now voting on the motion of the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure that no person or family is defeated in Galicia of their habitual residence. We vote. G.P. Motion vote. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of D. Antón Sánchez García, on the measures to be taken by the Government of Greece to ensure that no person or family is defeated in Galicia of their habitual residence The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u140	We then vote on the motion of the Socialist Parliamentary Group of Galicia on regulatory development and the amendments to be introduced by the Government of Greece in Law 2/2014 of 14 April for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia. The rapporteur has already stated that he accepted the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group as an addendum. We vote. Text vote on the G.P. Motion. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Gallego Calvar, on the regulatory development and the amendments to be introduced by the Government of Galicia in Law 2/2014, of 14 April, for equal treatment and non-discrimination of lesbians, gays, transsexuals, bisexuals and intersexuals in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. This motion is therefore rejected. Institutional declaration on the future in freedom of the Saharan people
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u141	Before I suspend the full afternoon, the groups send me an institutional statement, which I read below: "The Galician Parliament wishes to reaffirm its commitment to the future and freedom of the Saharawi people, assuming and renewing the important agreements reached at the last Conference of Parliamentary Intergroups Peace and Freedom in Western Sahara held in this same institution on 5 and 6 March this year, for the second time in the history of our autonomy. The UN Secretary General's visit to the occupied territories opened a diplomatic conflict between Morocco and the UN, first with the refusal to receive Ban Ki-moon in Rabat and then with the expulsion of 73 civilian persons from Minorus. This conflict undermines the mandate of Minorus and is a grave concern for the implementation of the agreed Western Sahara peace plan. On 17 March, the United Nations Security Council was held with an important report by the Secretary-General. We urge the representatives of the Government of Spain, as members of this Security Council, to prioritise the dialogue to obtain, without further delay, a just and definitive solution, which in turn brings to practice the right of self-determination of the people of Saharanuí through the holding of the referendum. We consider it essential that the United Nations mission for the referendum in Western Sahara –Minutrius – should be strengthened in the occupied territories with the fullness of its previous delegations, assuming the power to monitor and safeguard the human rights of the Saharan population in Western Sahara. We defend guarantees of transparency and legality in judicial proceedings for the Saharawi prisoners who participated in Gdeim Izik camp, according to international legality and human rights. Santiago de Compostela, 12 April 2016"
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u142	Thank you. We suspended the session until 6:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u143	Good afternoon. [[Murmurs.]] We resumed the session with the next appearance. Mr Economie, Employment and Industry's appearance, on his own request, to report on the development of the Greek technology and industrial pole of unmanned aircraft
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u144	The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry, Fr. Francisco Conde López, has the floor to make his appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be here today to explain in detail a strategic and enormously transcendent project for Galicia, such as the development of the technological and industrial pole of unmanned aircraft located in Rozas. An ambitious bet of all of us who want the best for our land and for all of us who want Galicia to expand its capacities for innovation and production, and become a referee, a new sector of the future, as is the one linked to unmanned aircraft. A bet that fits into this government's goal of modernizing our industry, as it's collected in the Galicia Industry 4.0 Competitiveness Agenda, and the Smart Specialization Strategy, the RIS3. A bet that will have in Rozas the central core of this new sector, but that will be completed with shares in the rest of Galicia. I'm talking, particularly, about Ourense, where there will be a new aeronautical engineering titration, as well as Vigo, with the launch of the new Aerospace Innovation Center that we just opened last week in Port of Molle. A bet that will benefit our small and medium-sized enterprises, universities and technology centres, and consequently a bet that will set up new industrial fabric in Galicia by creating new quality jobs. And this is thanks to the development of the entire industry value chain, from R & D activities, the manufacture and certification of unmanned aircraft, their marketing and also thanks to the use for Galicia of all systems that will better manage our territory through the use of unmanned aircraft. A use for the fight against theft, the prevention of fires, maritime rescue actions or control of fishing and seafood production. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a project that is good for Galicia, that is good for our productive fabric and that constitutes a real opportunity for the future for our labour market. A project characterized by its rigorousness and transparency and its pioneering character, especially when looking for legal solutions to attract private investment and to have an innovative catalogue of services through a joint R+D+i program. Under these premises we took the first step in 2014 by creating the Aeroported Research Centre in Rozas. A centre which, as you know, is a mixed centre between the Galician Union and the State, and which is dedicated exclusively to the development of R & D+i for the civilian use of unmanned aircraft and its certification for this purpose. A firm commitment that is collected in two agreements published in the Official State Bulletin: the first, signed on 5 November 2014, to develop the infrastructure and equipment project necessary for the research centre; the second, directed to regulate the establishment of the centre, which was signed on 1 October 2015 and which is published in the Official State Bulletin, of 22 January 2015. In these agreements, all information on the competences and functions entrusted to the Rozas Air Research Centre is collected in order to ensure that this centre is a reference centre at European level, both from a scientific and technological point of view. It also makes it clear that the investment we are running at this centre is EUR 10 million, of which EUR 2 million are contributions from the Galician Union's own funds and EUR 8 million are contributions from the state through European funds. And it is also recalled in the agreements that the obligation to devote to the activity of ICAR, the research centre, civil applications, as expressly stated in Article 5 of the convention signed in 2014. A requirement that is further assessed, because the European funds dedicated to the State can only be devoted to civil applications. So we are developing this project and at the moment we are completing the construction of the new offices, the new hangar and the control tower of the Airborne Research Centre, to start the equipment then. A first phase will be opened in the coming weeks, so we will immediately extend an invitation to the President of the House to arrange a visit where Members and Members will often know both the facilities and the activities being carried out at the Airborne Research Centre. [[Murmurs.]] The second step to conform to the aeronautical pole was to find a technological partner with the ability to lead an industrial investment project of unmanned civil-use aircraft alongside the research centre. That's why last year we decided to develop a new instrument, a pioneering instrument in Spain, such as the Association for Pre-Commercial Public Purchase. Thanks to the flexibility of this instrument, today we are in a position to hire R & D services in which the Galician Union will share the risks and benefits needed to develop and generate a real impact on the improvement of public services, and also to integrate the entire value chain into our economy and make it the hand of great leaders in the aeronautics sector, who also have a clear commitment of permanence and collaboration with companies and with the Greek knowledge centres. To this end, we have finally started to process the Association for Pre-Commercial Public Purchase. In May 2015 we anticipate its launch by publishing an announcement in the official newspapers of both Greek and European. In June we enabled a specific website on this initiative, which has all the details of it, and in July we published the tender in the three official newspapers. Following this process, nine applications were submitted with companies of highest international relevance, such as Boeing, Airbus, Ab System, Inaer, AugustaWestland, Telespazio Ibérica, Indra, Everis and a consortium formed by French companies who submitted this invitation to tender. A result, ladies and gentlemen, which made it clear that the Council of Galicia was, and is, on the right path. But above all, a result with which our small and medium-sized enterprises, our universities and our research centres have had the opportunity to present their credentials and capabilities to the world's leading multinationals. A unique opportunity for the whole of our productive fabric and our technological fabric. The result of the process is already known, four finalists: Inaer, Indra, Airbus and Boeing, resulting in the choice of the joint bet presented by Inaer and Indra. And it was elected, firstly, because it was the offer that had a higher score by the valuation commission, and also, secondly, because it was the most advantageous for Galician interests. And it's the most advantageous because you've achieved the best balance between the media and the resources that these two companies bring to the content of the joint R & D+i program that we're going to develop together, as well as the resources requested to the Galician Union. The joint project presented by Indra and Inaer is, of course, an ambitious proposal, which improves the technological challenges and commitments posed by the Galician Council in its bid. Two multinationals who have accredited their technical and economic solvency and a broad experience in the development of R & D in the iodine of unmanned air systems, which supports, ladies and gentlemen, their ability to maximize the social and economic impact in Galicia. Inaer Helicopters, the Babcock Group, is today a world leader in the provision of mission services with manned aircraft, is present in 23 countries, billing more than 6.000 million euros and up to 35,000 employees. Indra thinks of itself as one of the world's high-tech leaders, he develops his activity in 149 countries, he earns about 3,000 million euros and employs more than 38,000 workers. The commitment raised in Indra and Inaer's offer adds a total of 75 million euros of private capital on the part of these two companies, which together with the 40 million euros contributed by the Government of Greece, significantly reinforce the initial project of Rozas. We are talking about a total investment of EUR 115 million, which will facilitate the creation of 600 jobs between direct and indirect jobs, and will generate a multiplier effect between companies, universities and technology centres that will participate in this project. In particular, Indra and Inaer are committed to moving their entire activity from unmanned aircraft to Galicia, to deploy six new companies in our country, to develop a catalogue of products that will be manufactured in Galicia and marketed worldwide, to boost high impact transversal technologies in other sectors, such as the naval sector and the automotive sector, and also to build a technological and industrial park in Rozas. For this purpose, the Luminous Aerodrome will incorporate Inaer's unmanned helicopter factory, Indra's unmanned aircraft factory, a technology centre, a certification design office, a pilot training and training unit and another additional sensor operators, an air traffic control centre, a new hangar and a company incubator. All these actions and infrastructures involve a commitment of Indra and Inaer to stay in Galicia, which, at least, will reach until 2026. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we set the necessary conditions for manufacturing in Galicia three unmanned models with high market potential: the Lumes helicopter, the Targus fixed wing aircraft and a marine vehicle that includes a submarine micro-robot with capacity for sampling. Vehicles that will be developed in Galicia with the support of the Rozas Airborne Research Centre, which will also provide services necessary to test the prototypes in Rozas and also to obtain the approvals and certifications necessary to allow the final products to be marketed. This is, ladies and gentlemen, an essential element of Galicia's collaboration with INTA, because synergy between the Research Centre and the Industrial Technology Park is precisely what distinguishes us from other regions which, like Galicia, also try to enter the open-ended aircraft market, and of course put us in a unique and preferential situation. [[Applause]] This public-private effort will have an important direct impact on Galicia. First of all, for Inaer and Indra's commitment to hire our companies and our research centres. Specifically, 18 companies from different sectors, such as the aeronautics, metallurgicals, navals or ICT have already compromised their participation in the project. Like 13 community-based centres of knowledge, including the three Greek universities. A commitment that has a special value for this Government, because Indra and Inaer's commitment is to engage directly with these companies and knowledge centres contracts amounting to EUR 42 million, which will be collected in the pre-commercial partnership contract that we will sign this month. And in addition, it will also provide an opportunity for these companies and knowledge centres, because they can participate in the exploitation of the technology that develops them. Secondly, the project will allow for the creation of new industrial fabric. There will be three companies that will establish their headquarters in Galicia: Acubens, S4A Solutions and Tecnam Aviation, and three subsidiaries of Indra will also be installed in Galicia. So we're talking about six new companies going to work directly from Galicia. And thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, because through this partnership agreement that we will sign with Indra and with Inaer the Union we reserve free of charge the use of the technology resulting from all these projects, a technology that we will use to provide the best services to Galician citizenship in areas such as fire prevention and extinction; the most efficient management of forest, agricultural and livestock resources; the intelligent inventory and management of the territory and heritage; the maritime rescue; coastal surveillance; the control of theft; the detection of red tides or the efficient management of emergencies and tourist flows. All of them, challenges that are expressly included in the bid and which will be the commitments that Indra and Inaer will make to develop the technology needed. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're developing the action plan we designed over a year ago. A plan of action that seeks to develop a new economic sector in Galicia and become an industrial technology referencer in the field of unmanned civil-use aircraft. We are facing a world market with huge prospects and high expectations of growth, a market where Galicia already has important capacities installed through its small and medium-sized companies and knowledge centres, but now we have the opportunity to take a leadership position in a new emerging sector. A process that will succeed to the extent that we know how to promote and strengthen public-private collaboration between the central administration, the Galician Union and the contributions and knowledge of the private sector. For this purpose, we have already committed a EUR 50 million budget since the Galician Union by 2020. The EUR 10 million to convert the Rozas airborne research centre into an unmanned aircraft research and certification centre for civil applications and EUR 40 million to create alongside it an industrial point-based technology park by using public procurement to promote innovation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Galician Union has made an effort, an important effort by designing a flexible and guaranteed instrument to complete the EUR 40 million of public funds involved in the industrial technology park in Rozas through an unprecedented approach of private capital, with a contribution of EUR 75 million. A total of EUR 115 million between public and private contributions. [[Applause]] A public disbursement of EUR 40 million that will always take place and when Indra and Inaer companies are scrupulously fulfilling the milestones and results committed to the partnership agreement, and therefore all that public money contribution will be directly linked to compliance with the milestones established in the partnership agreement that we will sign in the coming weeks. An agreement, ladies and gentlemen, whose contents will also be at the disposal of this House. So – and I conclude – with this Galicia project has taken a strategic step in its commitment to creating a new productive model and a new economic model capable of generating stable and quality jobs. The aim is to set industrial fabric in Galicia and place our industry at the head of Spain and Europe in all the economic sectors in which we have the greatest capacities. And we're doing this within the framework of the Strategy of Intelligent Specialization and within the framework of the Galicia-Industry Competitiveness Agenda 4.0, which is precisely where to frame this initiative linked to unmanned aircraft. On this occasion, this goal, ladies and gentlemen, is possible thanks to the efforts of all, thanks to the efforts of the central administration, thanks to the efforts of the Galician Union, thanks to the efforts of small and medium-sized enterprises, thanks to the efforts of Indra and Inaer, and thanks to the efforts of the Greek universities and technology centres as well. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this Government assumes that public-private collaboration is fundamental so that projects of a large scale, such as entry into the field of unmanned civil-use aircraft, can become reality and, therefore, convert Galicia of the 21st century into an industrial, innovative and vanguard land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u146	Thank you, Counselor. Round of parliamentary groups. Parliamentary Group, Mixed, Mrs Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u147	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. Well, we're talking about Rozas, an aerodrome built by the Nazis in 1943 in Castro de Rei for its strategic placement on a large plain, without air traffic and out into the sea, which will become one of the research centers, the largest in the state, and one of the few in Europe. Together, and now you insist that this centre will investigate these aircraft for civilian areas and targets such as the fight against fires, maritime rescue or heritage conservation. But they admit that they do not control the fate that private companies or the central government decide to give the results obtained in the trials. Junta will pay the companies elected for drone investigations and provide you with the precinct, equipment and security and confidentiality assurances. In return, the German Government will have the title of the patents that are registered and the free use, although not exclusive, since, as you said, the private partner has the right to market his inventions with other companies or administrations, and here the purposes of his use are not delimited when he sells them to third parties. The Rozas aerodrome is owned by INTA, which is also responsible for certifying military drones that meet the requirements to be used for civil purposes. In the debate on the state of the nation held in October 2014, President Feijóo announced the investment in the Lugés aerodrome of Rozas. The agreement signed between the German Government and INTA obliges, textually, to allocate the project's research teams to applications exclusively for civil use. But I'm asking you, can the Welsh Administration control how the investigated in the Lugo compound applies to companies in its majority belonging to armamentist business groups? From INTA they warn us that, although investments and research of direct military use will not be developed in Rozas, the derivatives of what is being investigated there are uncontrollable. These are statements by INTA itself, which does not put your hand on the fire that they have no military use outside of the use that the Galician Union gives them. On Saturday, September 12, the Rozas aerodrome hosted the first test of an army drone in state territory, as the Ministry of Defence recognized, a Earth Army Searcher, an Israeli unmanned aircraft used in Afghanistan, which carried out an hour and a half flight around five miles. It was the first of a series of flights whose aim is to obtain the certificate of a skilled aircraft, which is required of all aircraft operating in European space. In January of this year, a wide array of NATO forces was deployed in the Santa Cruz de Parga camp. Nearly 800 people arrived at the facilities where they featured an operation to analyze and practice the response to the request for help from a country of the organization that had been invaded. This is an exercise corresponding to the very high availability of force activities, as members of various countries and with a command entrusted to a particular country. Each country is given every year the creation of a body of these characteristics. In the case of the Spanish State, this activity was entrusted to Brilat based in Figueirido, so the camp of Parga was elected for this exercise. Greek and Asturian military will form the core of this high-capacity combined force, a multinational brigade with the main feature of its ability to deploy in just forty-eight hours on any NATO stage. In this way, the bridge gang is thought to be NATO's military response to the Jihadist threat, but also to conflicts like those that are held in Ukraine or Russia on territorial issues or any other stage where NATO's collective defence and interests are at stake. In any case, the fact that the brigade has two days to unfold from the receipt of the order of intervention makes it clear that they cannot count on the authorization of the Congress of Deputies and Deputies. Since the brigade they have argued that the receipt of this activation order obliges the availability of the new force of very high availability, as well as the ground displacement of vehicles from its permanent bases to ports and boarding airports. An official Defence spokesperson states that these technical approvals will continue to be carried out in Rozas when the Joint Research Centre works, but with total security and no weaponry. Ría, but the drone that Spain is going to buy the United States was employed by the Obama Administration in Pakistan, Yemen or Somalia, so it's hard to believe that the four rippers bought by Defense only dedicate their watch, as they will depend on Defense and operate through the Air Army. The unit will have its headquarters in Torrejón, although it is warned from the Ministry of Defence that drones can be transferred from Madrid to other less saturated bases, because they need places where the flight has no special complications to share airspace, characteristics that seem to meet Rozas; therefore we also wonder if Rozas will be the military base of these drones that will not be at Torrejón headquarters. Even though it's been bought for surveillance, it doesn't mean they can't be used for other things in the future. The MQ-9 is ready to load a ton of explosives, although in theory its use is civil, but it can be adapted for military use, and it also has rocket anchorages, stinging, missiles and bombs. If you decided to arm it it would be relatively easy, minor changes and a specific software would be sufficient. That's what happens to civil drones, which can be perfectly adapted to military activity. By 2025 Europe should already have its own unmanned air-vehicle, and that is one of its objectives. So we wonder if this European goal of an unmanned combat air vehicle is what's going on in Rozas. Because despite the repeated assertion by the German Government that it will be intended exclusively for civil use, the continued recourse of the Greek Government to lies, like the State Government, leaves many unanswered questions and causes great doubts. For example, can drone models designed and constructed in Rozas for military purposes be adapted and used? Is there any kind of limitation to companies that are going to develop this project so that they can't sell their inventions to third parties if they are intended for military purposes? Will military practices of the very high availability force of Figueirido in the Rozas aerodrome be realized? Just make it clear that we are not opposed to research and development of drones for civil use. It is true that in certain scenarios, such as forest fires, they can be of great help and can even limit or improve the working conditions of forest fire workers and also prevent them from exposing themselves to dangerous circumstances with the use of these drones. But they have serious doubts about their subsequent use. We are very afraid that this is candy, an poisoned industry, an industry that, as a civilian industry, can be supported, but with dangerous derivatives that could turn Galicia into one of the areas of Europe where more military activities are being developed for NATO, where military practices are being developed, military drone flights over the airspace of Greece to practice. Therefore, by supporting industry, by supporting progress, by supporting research and technology, we believe that there is a considerable lack of transparency in everything we have been talking about in this Parliament about this activity in Rozas, and that the German Government does not deny what INTA says about the possible military use by third parties of the advances and inventions that develop in Rozas. It would be crucial for us today that you have made it clear to the people of Greece that this activity and those investments with the public money of the Union will never, ever, be devoted to military activity, and that NATO's military activity in Rozas will therefore be banned, and that the adjudicate companies are selling their inventions to third parties to develop military weapons. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Counsellor, who has been lying from a position of power, exercises a subtle form of violence, and to me his intervention has been tremendously violent, the truth is so. You had this, I do recognize it, an impeccable skill for having signed several agreements with the Ministry of Defence, after having invested a significant amount of public money in facilities and on land of the Ministry of Defence – I paid very much attention to its intervention – not once did the word army, defence, soldiers. Nothing, of course, has to do with these kinds of questions. It was a white, impeccable intervention, I would say. Alfred Adler said, "Talk doesn't make sense if truth doesn't perceive itself as dangerous." And you're deeply afraid of the truth, because your government held on to stone whose only mortar is the lie. In the face of the dismantling of our productive sectors: the dairy sector, the fishing sector; in the face of the dismantling of our industry: the naval sector, the renewable energies; in the face of its strategy of converting Galicia into low cost territory, and for sale: there we have the Law of the soil, the Plan of Megamining; in the face of its large failed projects: the Law of aquaculture, the wind competition; and after placing Galicia on the queue of the country, which is on the queue of all Europe at R+D+i, what is left to the Government of Galicia already? Well, all he has left is to defend his star project: the great base of drones of Rozas. And you do it through an exercise of rhetorical violence. You lied with real development, even with youthfulness, you were jolly at your exhibition. But, Counsellor, the German Government has invested €2.5 million in conditioning land that is owned by the Ministry of Defence. You can repeat it with me if you want: improvement of the control tower, control systems, perimeter, etc. You have ambushed and hidden the development in Atlante Dr. Rozas, in the current artillery process by the MBDA missile manufacturer, of which the current Minister of Defense, Pedro Morenés, was the general director. The Ministry of Defence conducted navigation tests with Dron Searcher in Rozas, with Elite Grossa unit, dependent on Intelligence Regiment No. 1. A test aimed at obtaining the necessary certifications to participate in NATO maneuvers. Yes, Counselor. And all this is already said, and all this is very serious, but being this very serious the worst was yet to come, the worst had not yet happened. You have launched a process of selecting and recruiting tech partners for the Rozas drone base, and it turns out that this would be the biggest initiative for the development of the Welsh aeronautical fabric, left without any possibility to any of the industry's Galician companies, with impossible requirements to assume for any Greek company. What requirements? Well, 50 million consecutive turnover in every of the last three years. Of course, small businesses, those you mean, are in full condition to meet those requirements. Not even forming a UTE, the Greek companies were able to be adjudicate in this contest, and were rejected. You have also forgotten to say, Counsellor, that you have filed an appeal against these companies, even though the bases of the invitation to tender do not contain the mechanisms for submitting the appeal. How curious! How transparent! I'm cleaning everything up! A contest made to the extent of Indra, yes, Counselor, a company involved in payments in B by the People's Party in Punic operation, so of course! A company, Indra, organically dependent on the Ministry of Defence. Counsellor, repeat to me: Ministry of Defence, by agreement of the Council of Ministers of 25 July 2014. A company with a debt of EUR 700 million, a debt index –Indra – of 241%, a fall of its share value of 50% in the last five years. A company that has declared an ERE of redundancies of 2,000 workers: 1,750 in our country and the rest abroad. Well, this company is going to give the Government of Greece 20 million euros, I don't know if it's in order to return payments to B and clean up their accounts. I don't know, but it looks all right, Counselor, it looks all right. And the other to an armament multinational, yes, Babcock International, one of the UK's leading arms multinationals. Defense, Counselor, repeat with me. How can we call this, Counselor? How can we explain that the Minister of Defence has put Mr. Bartolomé Marqués, a senior position of the Ministry of Defence, on the Technical Advisory Committee of the recruitment table he selected and selected a company that in turn depends on the Ministry of Defence itself? In a competitive competition contest, Counselor, not negotiated. Do you not believe that a firm that has a clear link to a minister who receives EUR 95,000 from the Ministry of Defence does not have any kind of conflict of interest in handing over a contract and advising the recruitment table to a company that depends on the Ministry of Defence itself? Well, I don't know if you see him like that, but it seems to me that the thing looks ugly, Counselor. Do you know, Counsellor, that the German companies rejected in that UTE show serious criticism of the selection and adjudication procedure? Do you know that? You should know, because instead of being so concerned by the multinationals of armaments, by the foreign companies, by those Airbuss, by all these companies, you should be concerned by the small and medium-sized companies that are engaged in the aviation sector and that, of course, they don't need installations like Rozas, nor do they need, of course, to leave them out of any competition, where they would have the slightest possibility of being a drug dealer of a contract. Counselor, the Greek companies don't have contracts, I don't know how you see them. How can you get up here in this gallery and say you're going to create a job? How can a company fire 2,000 workers create jobs in Galicia? What do you do, fire on one side and hire another? Is that your job model, Counselor? How can a company that has the volume of debts I tell you, that you're declaring an ERE of dismissal of workers, say that here they're going to create jobs? Yes, companies don't match your data, Counselor. You talked about 600 jobs, the companies then talked about 300, now it turns out we're already talking about 180, 100 direct and 80 subcontractors. The thing is going down, but it doesn't matter, it's the case that you've given him time to get to the elections with this live project. That's your only intention. You know, Counsellor, that you are violating Article 4(r) of the Public Contracts Act, which literally says, and I will read to you: "In the adjudication of research and development contracts, the principle of advertising, competition, transparency, confidentiality, equality and non-discrimination must be ensured." You – even though these types of contracts are partially excluded from the Public Contracts Act – are obviously included in this fourth paragraph, where explicit reference is made to the requirements they have to meet, does not believe that I did not know that I was going to skip with that. Do you know that you are also violating the Competition Act? You are failing to comply with equal competition, because those German companies that were left out of that competition did not have the opportunity to place any person on the technical advisory committee. But Indra had that opportunity, didn't he, Counselor? That's your sense of patriotism, you're a patriotic Welshman, who delivers millionaire contracts to foreign and outside Galician companies. I'm telling you, from our point of view, you have an incredible negotiating ability. I'm going to explain to you the business that INTA has done. The INTA has obtained from the Galician Union an adjudication project through which it has installed in Rozas the ICAR – Air Transport Research Centre –, dependent on the Ministry of Defence, with money from the Union, and also managed to install in Rozas the Indra, a company dependent on the Ministry of Defence – as I say according to the Council of Ministers – with which the Ministry of Defence is already guaranteed with the money from the Union: the organizational part through INTA and the business part through Indra. And all this in a round business, which will cost us all the Greeks and all the Greeks, according to you, 50 million euros. I would say a lot more, because they previously invested in the works, and there was another kind of money delivered to the aerodrome. So you're cracks, you're cracks. It's commendable the operation you've done, they're giving you money from all the Greeks and all the Greeks for multinational companies to derive research, in theory for civil use, for military use. You know perfectly well that in a fund-cutting process of the Ministry of Defence, you're collecting funds through research projects, as is the case with what we're talking about. And you know one last thing, Counselor? After all I have told you here, if you continue to do so, you will be preempting, you will be committing a very clear case of prevarication, I have warned you in public appearance, and I tell you and warn you in this parliamentary headquarters, in this Chamber. If you keep going, Counselor, they'll prevarice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u150	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. For the Parliamentary Group of the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Adam.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u151	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor, we also greet – and I understand that they are students and students – those who accompany us in the Chamber today. Look, Counsellor, we should make almost a history from 2009 until today of what are the announcements at the Industry Council to understand how we can frame this situation, which has been described by the honourable Member and the honourable Member who preceded me, in respect of this sort of aerospace career, this "2016: An Odyssey in space", which is now inaugurating the pre-election period. I want to remind you that in the previous legislation we lived the big industrial plan, which was wind, 14,000 jobs and 6 billion jobs. Fiasco, nothing, a job loss of 1,200 workers and workers in the sector. But we're living other electoral moments as well. Remember when Mitsubishi was going to make a battery plant in Plisán? Pliny to this day is still a lunar landscape, it's not yet developed as a logistics area. But there's more, you bring here, for example, 1,030 jobs in Melón to make an electric car factory, which was exactly the future. Yes, yes, don't wave, because I bring even the news, in case I doubt there was such a reality, because it was the future, the electric car, and all the meetings and the forecasts for that thing. There it was, total failure! But we went into the 2012 election campaign and saw the Holy Grail of the Welsh industry, which was literally persecuted and then conquered, and then served to sell a yard to Pemex, and today, after reviewing all its appearances in this House, on repeated occasions talking about the possibility that Pemex had for the Welsh industry, already at the beginning of this legislation, back in February 2013, you claimed that that agreement culminated in May 2012 would lead us to a new logistics core in Europe, and that logistics core will have headquarters in the outer port of the Crown, a reality that will not be known how many millions, but, clearly, 3,000 jobs. We recently met with the naval unions, both in the Ferrol River and in the Vigo River, where we were confirmed that the fleets rarely reached 400 jobs in each of the rivers, both in the public yard and in the private yard. So today, in the beginning of precipice as we are, one of Mr. President's latest press releases refers to the construction of an aerospace pole, which is literally something you said here. He also let it slip which means a connection between Nigeria – that is, where Feijóo has just inaugurated Port of Molle, indeed an aerospace technological building –, the aerospace engineering of Ourense and the center of Rozas. Literally, you're talking about this pretty closely connected triangle. I want to ask you to explain to us why if you choose Rozas, an aerospace technology center, so you have to bless all researchers and researchers who finish it, not so much the Government of Greece. And it's decided a degree in Ourense. You understand that the triangle, at least, gives to think a little bit about if it wasn't the events leading to that triangle and not a scheduled industrial planning that takes us from an aerospace center in the south of Pontevedra province, to a degree, indeed, depending on the University of Vigo, in Ourense, and in Lugo, the characteristics of this aerodrome, the center of Rozas, have been explained here. By the way, we also wanted to ask you whether for the development of unmanned aircraft if you need so many square meters, or, indeed, what you did with public money, the German Government was to suit facilities for the use of Defense. That's one of the first questions we want you to solve, because we understand that the development of drones and industries in Galicia, the aircraft companies, doesn't need space size for their industrial and technological development. In any case, they explain it to us, because it's also in writing in the press release of the Galician Union, which is going to be that technological development. Because you're also in an appearance, in innovation – at RIS3, to be more accurate – committed here that at the end of the legislation we'd be talking about... – let me go to the exact data to be more rigorous – you say: "Galiza aims to increase the public investment of R & D+i to 1.2% in this legislation." Exactly which one are we not investing in? Last published data: 0.89. These are the latest public data that exist, and the commitment was 1.2%. The researchers have recently been through the corridors of this Parliament demanding that they continue their research careers. And you, already at the end of the legislation, to evaluate Industry 4.0, RIS3, Competitiveness Agenda, and I don't know how many more things you've been explaining here to us by explaining the base of axes and performance assumptions, comes with a project with ramifications in the area of Defense, and we also ask you and we want you to answer exactly what it means – because it's written, but you've just referred back today – the reservation of the exclusive use of technology. What does that mean for the German Government, for the Innovation Agency – which we understand is the agency that is positioning that money – and how will that also affect innovation in other companies? When we're talking about R+D+i – you're also saying it in all of your interventions – we're talking about that it's going to get capillary to the rest of the companies. But what you have told us today is that we will be companies from outside – six, in particular – those that will settle in the territory. What will be the technological and innovation relationship that with public money from all the Greeks and Greeks the Government of Greece will pay in the industry? What's that osmosis or that relationship going to be, since these companies in the sector actually didn't get the contest and they're out? And what's the technological development going to be? You were talking about 600 jobs, well under the expectations of previous legislation, electric car batteries... we're talking about what kinds of jobs, how many researchers and researchers, how many technologists are going to work on this 115 million-euro investment exactly? What's the relationship to the Vigo Center and what's the relationship to the University of Vigo and, in particular, to the degree of Aeronautic Engineering? What is planned for this relationship with this centre? Because, indeed, since you here are committed to what will be exclusively for civil use – which we expect, since Mrs Martínez has been asked with completeness – we ask you to explain here what clauses exist so that we have a record that it will only be for civil use and what relationship will exist. He gave us several examples: fires; marine research; bird migration; animal migration; I suppose the testing of buildings, whether of buildings or bridges, whatever, with the development that takes place in the degree of Ourense. I'm very interested in knowing how you're working so that this isn't loose stuff. If it was just a phrase from Mr. President when he went to an opening. Because the Rozas project makes sense if there's really going to be an investment in aeronautics in Galicia, maybe when the naval you let it fade; tomorrow we'll talk about it in a question that we have to yourself and in a non-law proposition. When you leave positions in the automobile, in addition, I want to remind you that one of the last interventions we saw is that there is a real loss of work in the automobile, in the car sector, mainly in the south of Pontevedra province. When they leave, for example, they leave the dairy sector completely exhausted and all the possibilities of the dairy sector industry, which I say would have an appreciable in Lugo; it could have a chance, and there it will die. When one of the axes of RIS3, like aquaculture, also rubs; in fact, it had to remove that harmful Law of aquaculture. So, Counsellor, the only balance on the RIS3, the Competitiveness Agenda and all Industry 4.0 proposals are the drones. And that's why you have to try and get it back to you that it's connected to the Nigerian Aerospace Center...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u152	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u153	...and with a new aerospace degree. Or was there really any kind of programming? I honestly don't think it's going to work, literally, at the expense of this Industry Council, how the German Government works. In this 2016, Odyssey in space is the new title for Feijóo in this election campaign. This covers a role, which is to have something to sell about job creation. But we're actually using this title, like Hal 9000, we're suspicious, we're skeptical, and we're waiting for your answers. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of Socialists. Mr. Losada Álvarez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, accompanying audiences, Counselor. Before you regret – as you usually do – my usual failure of rigour, I want to begin by solemnly saying a question. The socialists would be delighted that Rozas had become a second Toulouse, home of Airbus, or a second Everett, home of Boeing. I'm telling you to record it and there's no rhetorical allusion that we don't want to get airplanes in this autonomous community. [[Applause]] The truth is, I heard it for the second time, because I've been watching the Galician Television Newspaper, where you've already echoed the interview you did this morning about the drones. It is true that you have counted it with a capacity of synthesis greater than here in Parliament, which is sure to be appreciated by listeners and televisions. But anyway, in general terms the same thing. I believe that in the matter of parliamentary courtesy we should start with Parliament and then make the film presentation tour by the rest of the media. [[Applause]] I want to give you only three data, Counselor, to frame this dazzling industrial project. The first is that the per capita domestic product of this autonomous community is 17% lower than the European Union average – important data –. Today it gave me the feeling that the councillor of Fairy, when he responded to my companion González Santín, seemed irrelevant to him. It always seemed to me the fundamental data to measure the wealth of a country. The other figure, that 0.87% of GDP in R & D+i, in the case of per capita GDP, is about a little below Slovenia, practically like the Czech Republic; in the case of R & D+i we are a little worse, we are like Ukraine or like Turkey; and then 45,000 industrial jobs lost. This is the general framework where we have to move. The other day, in an interview, the president of the board answered a question that sounded to me so already vu that the truth scared me thinking about Rozas, drones, aeronautics... finally, in the Galician industry. I quote textually: "What is the challenge that most illusion makes you before the next Galician elections?Ssh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh shsh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh sh Oh, chance! - Oh, chance! I say, the journalist didn't say it – "Now we have a project that, if consolidated, will be the biggest industrial bet in Galicia's history." [[Laughter]] Exactly the same as the windmill, only these guys fly and the others just spin. We make remarkable progress in spatial terms. [[Murmurs.]] I repeat again, it's very good the pre-commercial public purchasing association; it's very good the language of international consultants; they're very well all shopping and competitive dialogues in some sectors. I, of course, have some friend who works in the health sector, and the results of these competitive purchases are that the devices that are putting on us are of an earlier generation of technology. I'm talking about health, I don't know what drones will look like. I'm saying be careful, it's not gonna be... yeah, yeah, exactly. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I'd like to thank you, Mr. Dorado, for taking a walk through the Radiology Service at Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital. Then go over there and tell him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If he doesn't, they won't tell him. Well, if you go, they're sure to tell you, because of course, they tell me. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So let us look at this about competitiveness in the trade dialogue where we are. I insist, I want crewed, unmanned planes to be made, at last, which is relevant. Well, 75 million euros of private capital – I thought you said – is the truth is that Indra's financial situation I'm not going to come in here on this issue, but for a moment it seemed to me like a kind of manager, both of Indra and of Inaer. In the case of Inaer, because I'm not so clear. The fact that Babcock International belongs to dissolves results accounts. But in the case of Indra, if it wasn't for that 20% of SEPI, the situation is quite complicated; except for the March family, who is very happy to participate there, as you sure know. There's always a family, that's practically pronatistic. Always, in every competitive dialogue, there's a family, if it's not March, it's Entrecanales and, if not, it's Pino; but there's always a prominent family of the Spanish economy that talks competitively with the Board of Feijóo, always! So I think it's best not to be too optimistic. Because look, the truth is, I have some doubts and, of course, some background of unfulfilled promises. It is true that some of the colleagues who spoke earlier have already made some reference, but I cannot help it, Counselor, that of the wind competition we all know. [[Murmurs.]] The truth is, this is a humble project. I remember that in the wind competition there were 14,000 jobs and 6 billion euros. Down from 6,000 million euros to 300 is a brutal reduction in expectations. You see, this election campaign is a little bit more adjusted. We also remember Mitsubishi and Plisan. I don't know if you've been there, I happened to spend this Saturday. I assure you that the chicks are nestling with absolute comfort in that lake. We're about to promote Birdlife International as a protected space, as a protected wetland. [[Laughter]] We don't talk about Melón's electric vehicles. The Pemex minor fleet and the base for the distribution of Pemex fuels throughout Europe in Punta Langosteira, neither. [[Murmurs.]] Of the floating board, at last, I don't think we need to talk in detail either. And from the Plan Impress Lugo and Impress Ourense, well, the truth is it pushes a lot, but the bad thing is that the average income of these... No, don't look at me with that surprise face. If I don't doubt what they push. What I'm saying is the per capita income of Ourense and Lugo, Counselor. I'm just talking about it. I'm sure it's highly motivated, but the truth is, I'm the penultimate and the penultimate of the 50 Spanish provinces. So, hey, maybe we should push in another direction, something we should do. This is a theme, the one about the Rozas aerodrome, which has been coming, for more time than you started talking. You located the chronological start in 2014 – or that seemed to me – but in 2011 Defense already studied installing a spy plane base on Lugo's aerodrome, and INTA itself was testing... I thank Mr. Castineiras for the first level intellectual contributions, but as sure as he talks after me, I'll be able to nude everything he considers. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The INTA had been testing, by the way, at that moment in Rozas, some of these aircraft had been for some time. But also, in 2013 already, at a technical prescription requirement of INTA itself, technical assistance services were requested or requested to be provided to the ICAR de Rozas Lugo. So, I understand that this has many parents, it's a little bit... almost a 18th-century novel. It has a previous trajectory, it wasn't the first ones to realize that there was an asphalt runway of 1,200 meters in the Town Hall of Castro de Rey. Other governments have seen it before, explored some possibilities, some probably didn't, it's true that economic circumstances have changed significantly too. Indeed, we have 50 million euros. I recognize that I have tried to follow up on the various press releases of the Greek Government on budget allocations for this project and it cost me work. I made a sort of synthesis, I don't know if I got it right, but I understood that 10 million for direct investments, by the way, 25 million euros for a tech partner, which I understand in this case is Indra and Inaer, and 20 million euros later to buy smart for this tech partner of drones for the autonomic administration itself. I understand this, that's what I was able to get out of those press notes. It's true that there was then a very recent, later note, which is already talking about EUR 115 million, 600 jobs, and we've already entered the agenda, in that sort of wind-fighting runway, which I don't know very well where it's going to end. But – I insist – 10, 25 and 20, I understand. Then the fundamental question now, Counselor. Public money for companies that provide technology, I don't doubt it. All we ask for is information and transparency; information and transparency. We're asking for information on a subject so, for example, it happened in an absolutely tangential way, which is the subject of double civil and military technology. Information, calm of the citizens. Socialists are fully aware that, at the moment, in the aeronautical industry most of the technology is of dual use. We are fully aware, but information. Because citizens are everywhere watching posters that put INTA-Ministry of Defense, but they listen to the Economic and Industry advisor and the president of the board saying that this has nothing to do with the military and the army, and I understand that they have a certain perplexity, because we even have to study these issues. So, information on that, information on coordination...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u156	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u157	:...as Mrs. Adam said, a perfect equilateral triangle Lugo-Vigo-Ourense. I think that requires a very serious coordination effort, I don't know if any mechanism. By the way, whenever this Member and this group sought coordination between the Igape and the Galician Innovation Agency, for the reasons that were the People's Parliamentary Group, they voted against. I hope in this case they coordinate something, because they put both of them in the folder...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u158	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u159	...Finished, Madam President. As you know, put more money on it, but they both make public funds. I therefore hope that there is such coordination. Finally, Counsellor, and I hope in the second round to focus on the issue, information and effort to cover up and participate in the Greek business sector in this project, which for the moment, and so it reaches this Member and this group, as in the case of the Radiology Service of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, is that it is neither expected nor expected. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u160	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Castineira Broz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Losada, it's clear that for you the Counsellor couldn't make an extract like for the rest of the viewers because it's hard to wet... and he needed a lot more time and dedication. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'll tell you, yes, because... No, don't worry, because the intellectual level you referred to... No, not the arrangement, not the arrangement, quiet that I wasn't talking to you, I'll talk to Mr. Losada, who was the spokesman who put here. [[Murmurs.]] Possibly because Lugo's people didn't dare talk about Rozas, a brave man came talking about Rozas, precisely, and talking about Mr. Castile's intellectual contributions, Mr. Castile's not a professor like you or Pepe Blanco, he's not a professor like Pepe Blanco or like you, but he's not coming to fool anyone, as Mr. Pepe Blanco was to fool the lumens. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] And I'm sending myself to 2005, Mr. Losada. Of course, what you don't know about the land may have a problem, and you don't need to be a professor for that. This is the intellectual level of the deceptions of the Socialist Party in Lugo. Yes. On December 30th they announce big projects for Lugo. Next – as if it were a film –, on January 18th, there will be great surprises. On January 12, Orozco, Besteiro, even Mr. Touriño – there was an election campaign, didn't he remember?, in 2005 – they announced that January 18 would be such, announcements in the press everywhere... and it came on January 18th and there were 15,000 jobs that would be on a recycling and maintenance plant that would be the no more. Do you know how many jobs there were? Not 15 or 1,000, zero! That's the intellectual level you're resorting to, Mr. Losada. [[Applause]] So, being a socialist, going to talk about Rozas, I'd hide myself. Especially in Lugo, especially in Lugo. Yes, yes, yes. And he asks for information and transparency. Look, there's no better information and transparency – and that's for you and the rest of the spokespersons – than the Official Gazette of the State and the Official Journal of Galicia. Here are the agreements signed with INTA, where exactly the uses and functions they're going to have are collected. [[Applause]] There's no better transparency. But he dared to talk about families. There were no families or surnames in the Bipartite, there was no competitive dialogue, Counselor, no. There was dialogue, dialogue with Torrado, dialogue to judge 40 contracts directly, without competitiveness or equal conditions. For that, if there was in the Bipartite. That looks like it. But there were no tech partners there, they were government partners, which is different, it's different. Look, on the Tealand, to which I have the honour to belong, to be from there and to have part of my family, my brothers are sheep there, be done if they're scared that the other day I went there and they, besides walking with bulletproof vests and helmets, now they're thinking, their great concern, is how to design to put cows also bulletproof vests and helmets in their horns, because that's what's missing, Mr. Vázquez, to scare people and try to alarm. Man, please! I think it's NATO base or I don't know... [[Applause]] I think when you don't have any arguments, you turn to anything. Why? Because what it's about is very simple. There are progressive gentlemen who, if things don't go wrong, don't do them good. So they need no business, no job, so they can go well, because if it's not impossible. And that's why they're against Ence, the expansion of Citroën, of Mugardos gas... of course, of course, and a lot more. Any job-generating company in Galicia will be against it. They'll be against it because it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter, does it, Mr. Vázquez? That's what there is, because it doesn't matter. You have to oppose everything, see if something falls. And then, finally, finally, you say that this contract goes everything for companies from outside...! I don't know if you've read carefully what's going on. Hey, 18 companies! There's a clear commitment, of course, to 18 companies, from which most of them are Welsh. And there's a commitment to invest 115 million euros in Lugo. Mrs. Adam – and I tell you with affection, you know – asked the counselor why in Rozas. I'll tell you why. I have to tell him that, as they look, it hurts me to ask that question. Why Lugo? Ask your partner who is behind you, who is a Member for Lugo do BNG. In Lugo? Because it's time for us to be touched by Lugo; because Rozas is in Lugo; because there is an aerodrome there and because, after a lot of unmet promises from the governments that you have supported, Galicia also exists, and there is inner Galicia, Mrs. Adam. And we deserve and need an opportunity, and that opportunity is given to you by giving you a government of the People's Party. And that's why, Rozas. [[Applause]] By the way, the equilateral triangle, Mr. Losada, Lugo-Vigo-Ourense seems to me to have the measurements of the equilateral triangle somewhat wrong. It'll look more like an isosceles, but of course, equilateral doesn't. Look, I'd like to know exactly why you're opposed to virtually everything that's going to generate employment, if you tell them that you're going to make an investment of 115 million guaranteed, with contracts and published in the Official State Bulletin; if you're told that 600 jobs are going to be created; if most of them say that Indra and Inaer's law firms have the commitment, to carry out their contract, to transfer their unmanned helicopter factories or unmanned aircraft to Rozas precisely, and they're going to assemble there, therefore, two factories of these devices, a technology centre, a design and certification office, a pilot training and training unit, another training and training unit of sensor operators, a traffic control centre, a new hangar and a company incubator, it turns out that you're against. Can you tell me what the problem is, Mr. Vázquez? What's the matter? Is it a problem to ride that up in Rozas? The problem is there's a planned investment of 115 million for Rozas? The problem is that you're going to give work to 18 Greek companies, and more than, logically, can you indirectly have work? The problem is that there are clear commitments by Indra and Inaer to bring all their activity on unmanned air vehicles to Rozas? Is that a problem? What's the matter? Or the problem is that maybe this works and it turns out that there are jobs, and you think who took that initiative, after many promises, it turns out that it was a government of the People's Party? Is that the problem? Because, of course, I assure you that I'm in that area, and I talk a lot to my neighbors in that area, and I haven't noticed any special concern in the neighbors whether it was or not, if a NATO base, if it's military... It's perfectly clear in the agreements that are signed, and we've explained it several times here. We've explained it several times to you and your formation, and they also explained it to your partner Yolanda Díaz at the Congress of Deputies, but it seems that what we're talking about is revolve, revolve, revolve, and see where we're coming from. I mean, that's the goal. And look, he's not around. This, in spite of you, is going to be done because – as I said before – Place exists and Galicia from the interior exists. There's a clear commitment from a People's Party government that will lead this project forward. This is not the empty promises, the empty promises of Mr. Pepe Blanco, the great intellectual of the Socialist Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u162	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u163	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers from the different groups for discussing a project that we understand is vertebrate for Galicia, which will allow us to fix industrial fabric and will therefore open up new opportunities in terms of employment and, above all, in terms of the future for our young people and for the whole of our productive fabric. I told Mrs Martínez that they actually support this project in what it means to use drones for civil purposes. I sincerely appreciate that commitment of support because, indeed, that is the Government's goal, so you can have the conviction that the Government is working on that line. And I insist on thanking you for this support for the project as soon as – and as we reflect here – it's a project that has a vocation for civil uses. What I think – and I'm also trying to pick up the interventions from the AGE Group – is that what can't be seen in this House is speculating. The Government is clearly saying that the development of the technology to be developed in Rozas has a civil use vocation, so it gives answers to concrete solutions that the Government wants to develop in the field of land management. That's what's going to develop in Rozas. To speculate about the use that can be given by a particular country not only to the technology of Rozas, but to any technology that can be developed in Spain, that can be developed in any center of research or at any research center, I believe that, frankly, it is not rigorous and does not focus on the clear goal that the Government has of promoting innovation, of encouraging research and of promoting technological development in our country. I sincerely believe that you have nothing to do with Parga with Rozas, and I sincerely believe, Mrs. Martínez and Mr. Vázquez, that, although I also like war cinema, here we've been talking about specific projects of technology development and we haven't seen this House speculate – I insist – about the uses that can be given at the international level not only to the technology developed in Rozas – I insist – but to any technology developed by a university, a technology center in Galicia, Spain or at the international level. I believe that, if we are serious, today no one doubt that the great advances that have taken place in the 20th century or in the 21st century have also been born of developments linked to the military field. If you use GPS today, if you use the Internet and if you use antibiotics, it's certainly not technologies that no one uses with a military target, it's also civil use. So I think we need to focus the debate and we can't come to the House to speculate. The government clearly talks about what is the goal it has by investing public funds, which is to develop technology and investments with civil applications, and that is, logically, the application that we are going to give to this project. And, ladies and gentlemen, there's no kind of report or objective data at any time that the technology centre in Rozas has a military character, none. I sincerely believe that this government, from the very first moment, is making its bet clear. Even the Government, in the face of an AGE proposal urging the Board of Auditors to be able to monitor all European funds invested in the Rozas aerodrome, voted that yes, logically, because this project, if it has anything, is absolute transparency and strictness from the legal point of view. So I don't think we can come speculating. We've come to talk about political action, we've come to talk about the interests of the Greek society, we've come to talk about employment and we've come to talk, logically, in the future, and everything else has to be left - I insist - in the wake of speculation. In the intervention of the Alternative Left Galeg, I regret that you are still behind the banner of no, because you are not worth any industrial project that this government is pushing. If we talk about natural gas, you say it's not Reganosa; if we talk about energy, you say it's not the thermal power plants; if we talk about the naval sector, you say it's not Pemex; if we talk about automobile, you say it's not Citroën, they've already said it; and now, if we talk about aircraft, they say it's not the Rozas. I sincerely – I say with all due respect – believe that the economic model of this government is totally different from the economic model of Podemos, absolutely. We understand perfectly well that your economic model is that of countries like Venezuela. But, of course, the economic model of this government is a Galician country that wants to be a modern country, a Galician country that wants to bet on innovation, a country that wants to bet on industry and a country, of course, that wants to bet on the future of its talent and the work of its people. [[Applause]] AGE's crusade against the pre-commercial public procurement process, to which the Socialist Party was also added this afternoon. I'm the first one to say, Mr. Losada, is that the Association for Pre-Commercial Public Purchase is a development that did the Galician Juridical Counsellor in collaboration with the Galician Agency for Innovation. So it's a project that comes from the Galician Union, which is developed in the Galician Union and which has all the guarantees. I sincerely believe that we have to have a recognition of our officials and we have to have a recognition of both the Galician Juridical Counsellor and the Galician Innovation Agency because they were able to develop a project that is a pioneer in Spain, that no other autonomous community has been able to develop, and an agreement that will allow us to capture private capital to develop this project. And to say, Mr. Vázquez, that the recruitment doesn't comply with the law, I think it's a sample of simply not knowing, though it's named, the regulations that are in force; and it's really worrying when a Member goes up to this House and tries to move the confusion. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you should know, because it is published – not because a member of this government says so, but because it is published – that the Association for Pre-Commercial Development agreement that we are going to formalize with Indra and INAER is a R & D service contract contract that is expressly excluded from the recast text of the Public Sector Contracts Act. But they should also know, because it is so collected, that the adjudication of this agreement was carried out under the principles of publicity, competition, transparency, confidentiality, equality and choice of the most advantageous offer. Therefore, with a scrupulously compliance with legality, taking advantage of all the possibilities that gave us both the Public Contracts Act and, logically, the possibility of developing this agreement from the Pre-Commercial Development Association. So, I think we need to value the things that we do well, and, of course, in this sense, the work developed by the Galician Juridical Counsellor and the Galician Innovation Agency, I sincerely believe that it deserves not only our respect, but our applause, for being able to develop this opportunity for Galicia. Mr Vázquez denounces that the process is irregular because a Deputy Director General of INTA has a clear conflict of interest. I sincerely believe that here is the only conflict of interests that moves, I think it is you, because that's what you want to move to this House, Mr Vázquez, is simply a rocambolesque. You know perfectly well that in the recruitment service we have already advanced, in July of 2015 – you seem to work late, in time, I mean – that in that publication we wanted you to participate in INTA. It's published. And we wanted you to participate in the recruitment board not only to have external evaluators, but because we understand, Mr Vázquez, that INTA must play a key role as a partner of the Rozas Airborne Research Centre. And you know that INTA's dependence is on SEPI, you know it perfectly well, and you know that the participation of SEPI is minority, 21%, as you have, by the way, in many other companies. We therefore understand that the project not only meets the legality, but rather implies – I insist – an opportunity to develop a contract where, in this partnership agreement that we are going to sign, all the pacts and all the conditions regarding the binding of the Galician Union with Indra and INAER; a document, this association agreement, which logically will be public and will therefore be known by all Members and by all citizens. We were transferred to Mrs. Adam in her speech the various announcements of the council. Look, the work of this government is measured by realities and facts, and when you tell me about Pemex, the reality is that in less than three, four months, Galicia is going to deliver 2 fleets to Pemex, as this government announced, and they're going to mean 300 million euros revenue for the Italian productive tissue. Therefore, Pemex's participation in the naval sector was a key element in the recovery of our sector here in Galicia. [[Applause]] You're telling me about the automobile, but you don't want to talk about that government, actually working together with the sector and working with Citroën, you've been able to collaborate so that Vigo's factory can develop a new vehicle, a van, the K9 project, and how the whole sector of the auxiliary industry, thanks to that adjudication, will invest about 2,000 million euros and will therefore consolidate the automotive sector in the next ten years. And when you talk about the wind sector, there's no mention that the wind sector in Galicia is supporting itself as it has been supported in the past. He doesn't want to recognize the situation that the Government is developing from the point of view of the reform of the electricity sector, and obviously these 127 million euros that have already entered the Galician Union thanks to the application of the wind canon developed by the Law of the wind sector 8/2009. Nor do investments, more than EUR 900 million that have already been invested, linked to industrial plans, and those over 2,000 jobs that have developed in the sector itself. So, with all due respect, this government is talking about facts and facts in industrial matters. There's a perfectly planned plan collected through the Industry 4.0 Agenda and through the Smart Specialization Strategy, and thanks to that planning today, we can be talking in this House about a project as vertebrate as it is the Aeronautics of Rozas. I'm sorry that you asked me – honestly the regret – why we chose Rozas. I think you probably don't have any kind of entertainment or Lugo or Ourense, I don't know your party, I don't know, but I'm sorry about the question. And I'm sorry to ask the question because the choice of Rozas has a meaning, it has a plan, and I think we have to value our entire territory. And I think the government's responsibility is not to think about the local key, but to think about the global key, and therefore to work for the future and for the employment of the whole of the Greeks and the Greeks. [[Applause]] But since you ask me, I'll answer you. The choice of Roses is very simple. First of all, because we have the infrastructure. We have an aerodrome and we only had to modernize that aerodrome, adjust its infrastructure and equip that aerodrome with the most advanced technology towards the air control system. And for that we're investing 10 million euros, which is a reasonable account from the point of view of investment. That was the first reason. But it is also that the Rozas aerodrome meets all the conditions, both from the point of view of navigation and from the point of view of weather, for the development of tests of these characteristics. And if you ask me for a third argument, I'll give it to you with all intensity. Because Lugo and Galicia from the inside also deserve an industrial wager. [[Applause]] Mr. Losada was moving my interest in actually having Rozas succeed. I also join this objective and I hope to count on the support of the Socialist Party of Galicia, because it is true that the Socialist Party, when it was in the Government in Madrid, tried through its Minister of Development to develop a similar project, but the truth is that it was indeed an announcement. There was no realization about that bet by Rozas and that bet by Lugo. And I sincerely want, Mr. Losada, that from your position, from the Socialist Party of Galicia, now that the Government brings a project, brings a realization and has managed to attract private capital to develop with 115 million euros this project, you support it. That's what I hope. Once you have not been able to achieve this, you can now support a government that presents a specific project, presents concrete investments and brings a concrete budget to this House. The different opposition groups also raised their doubts about the impact this project could have on our productive tissue. Ladies and gentlemen, a project of these characteristics, where competition at international level with major aircraft companies requires important investments. It is true – and we must recognize it – that our productive fabric, mostly made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, does not have that financial muscle. But what's also true is that when this government proposes the Association for Pre-Commercial Public Purchase, it sets two conditions for all bidders, which were the two conditions that marked the choice of the winning bid. These two conditioners were, first of all, the resources and funds that companies were willing to put on, and there we have that bet of 75 million euros of private capital. And the second condition – and it is thus collected in the tender itself – is what its commitment was to the various proposals in its connection with small and medium-sized enterprises and universities and research centres. Ladies and gentlemen, of the EUR 115 million, there is a commitment that will be reflected in the contract of the partnership agreement, in which the two companies, Indra and Inaer, undertake to contract EUR 42 million with 18 small and medium-sized enterprises and 13 knowledge centres. I think it's a clear commitment and a bet on the Italian productive fabric, and it responds precisely to the Government's vocation to vertebrate a project, not only with the presence of two major multinational companies but also for these companies to pull out of their own productive fabric. So you can be sure that the Government will not only ensure that this 75 million-euro contribution is achieved by Indra and Inaer, but we will also ensure that this has a direct impact on our productive fabric. And in the end, Mr. Losada would raise his doubts and make reference to press notes. Mr. Losada, I don't think it's necessary to refer to the press notes when we talk about the Rozas project. Reference must be made to the publications themselves and to the invitation to tender which is published in the Official Journal of Galicia. And in that tender you can verify that there are two commitments in the Pre-Commercial Public Association agreement. First, a contribution of 25 million euros to hire R & D services with companies presenting themselves to the contest. Secondly, a contribution of EUR 20 million in innovative public procurement at a later stage, for which the Government opened the competitive dialogue in September last year. The first phase, phase A, of the pre-commercial procurement of EUR 25 million, resulted in the allocation of the project to Indra and Inaer. You know that in your own tender the possibility of increasing the budget was raised, and that's what the Government did. The government went from 25 million euros to 40 million euros because it understood that with the contributions of 75 million euros from Indra and Inaer companies we had a greater impact of the project for Galicia. And that phase B, Mr. Losada, of innovative public purchase, is the one we are working on and in which during 2016 we will end up with the various tenders to develop additional innovative public procurement to the project of the creation of the industrial and technological pole in Rozas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u164	Thank you, Counselor. Special round of clarifications. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u165	Counselor, I must confess to you that, if I have any doubts, I am leaving with many more doubt. If I got scared, I'll go much more scared. To begin with, I didn't talk about jobs because I already take it for granted that this is electoral propaganda; I mean, I don't care anymore, I don't care what they say 600 to 800. I won't believe them because I know it's election propaganda. If it had been a bit prudent, I wouldn't have answered the BNG spokesman either about Pemex or about Citroën or about the windmill; that is, better blurry and new account. Don't remember past lies, which make it harder to swallow now what you're telling us. Therefore, they recognize their failures. I'm not going to say they recognize lies, but they can look at it as a failure, as a failed attempt, but don't make us communicate with mill wheels. On the other hand, I still have doubts, whatever it is, propaganda, I don't know if it's 600, 300 or 50, I don't know how many are going to be in Rozas, how many in Ourense, how many are going to be created in Nigeria, whether it's direct or indirect. I don't know if they're going to be service companies or technologically advanced companies, because they might be hiring cleaning, security, the dining room. Yes, they hire Greek companies, but of course we're also interested in knowing what kind of companies they are. Another thing we're interested in is if there's also a plan to adapt vocational training to this new industry, because if we create jobs, we'll also have to train the staff for these technologically high jobs. Another doubt that I believe, which comes in the press, is that to start the engineering staff comes from Alacant. Why? There's a transfer. They relocate the company that has R & D, the center of R & D in Alacante, and they bring the staff to Galicia, with which, the Greek engineers don't seem to be going to hire many. But they will also dismantle Toledo's maintenance center and bring it to Rozas, with which there will not be new jobs, it is personal that comes from Toledo and that comes from Alacante, therefore, remains our doubt. I was not opposed to the fact that these drones that are to be carried out in Rozas can be adapted to military objectives; if they are to be caught in Rozas drones coming from Torrejón; if they are to continue military practices of the very high availability forces of Figueirido. And I also want you to answer me, if you do the favor, if this has anything to do with the drone base that's anticipated and that's still going out in the media in Trasmiras, Ourense, Airbus and Northrop Grumman. So NATO says the ideal place is Ourense, which is a clean sky. And for military drones, gold is better than roses. I don't know if here what you're turning into is a NATO performance pole. I'm very scared, because you still don't answer the specific questions. You answered that, half through the air, saying that by the last century all technological advances had been linked to the military industry. Well, it's time we moved on. Because the military industry is interested in economic power and political power, it doesn't care about population. Technology, investment in public money, must serve society and hence peace. Science has to be at the service of health, health and well-being. We don't need that science, those technological advances, which make great progress, but which then, to buy the Hepatitis C medication, people can't afford it. That industry doesn't interest us, as we don't care about the war industry. So not all investment is good. We want investments for peace and investments to improve the quality of life of citizenship. But I'd also like you to tell me if there's any sort of joint control over that research and its uses. He says that this signed document between Junta, Indra and Inaer will be made public. I think today we should all have them all in front of us in hand to be able to look at them. For my part, that's all. I hope you answer those questions. I am very concerned and very doubted that my country would be a base of NATO, that my country would be bet on death rather than bet on life. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. AGE Parliamentary Group. Mr. Vázquez Díaz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u167	Well, Mr. Castineira, I'll give you only four lines, if you like. Because the truth is you've been sown with the theme of the vests and the helmets for the cows; especially by talking about the Land Cha, where the gainful farms are seriously going wrong because of this government's management. And I don't know if you're a neighbour of the Cha Land, but I'm sure you're going that way, they're gonna run him around. That's what I'm sure he'll be running around. As for the Lords of the Government, Counsellor, I already know that the Government is not a supporter of Venezuela. It was very clear and insulting to the President in that regard. You have more affinity for Panama. More affinity, closer, beyond the diplomat. Panama's theme is closer to it. Venezuela keeps them away. Some clarifications. Look, priority issue, security. AGE applied for certifications from the State Air Safety Agency and the European Air Safety Agency over a year ago, and we're still waiting. If we're talking about carrying out experimental flights with unmanned planes, we think the minimum is to provide security certifications. We believe that citizenship will have the right to access to all requirements. Second clarification, drones for fire prevention monitoring; drones for monitoring seismic movements; drones for rescue operations. They need neither the installations nor the technical requirements, nor the dimensions or load capacity that the drones are running with. All right? They don't need these requirements. But if he was told by the companies linked to that kind of scene you had with the Greek companies, where they told him: we don't need all of this that you're telling us. They told him clearly. A drone which is handled with a remote control device of the usuals that use the Galician companies does not need these dimensions or those requirements. Legal solutions. You spoke and used a word that made me very funny. We've adopted an innovative legal solution. It's a curious way of calling the prevarication, because to make the Ministry of Defence judge and start in a competitive competition, you have to have it called an innovative legal solution. Innovative for the People's Party isn't, because it's the usual way that he has to award competitions to related companies. A question that seemed interesting to me. Mr. Losada said there's always a family, the March family. You're right, but in this case there are two families. There's the March family and the president, Mr. April Martorell, son of an illustrious procurator in Franchise Courts. There's always one, two or three families, that's reality. And he said AGE was the political force of no: from not to Natural Gas, to thermals, to drones... No, we are not the force of not the Natural Gas, we are the force of not the Reganosa and the shrapnel with the Tojeiro family that Mr. Fraga and the People's Party did, which is a very different thing. We are not the force of not the thermals, said so, crude, but we are the political force against the shrapnels with Fenosa, the Barrie de la Maza family and the exploitation of Galician public resources at zero cost and above the back of the Greeks and the Greeks. We are not the forces of the "no" for the drones of civil use, but we are the group of the "no" for the Punic operation and the delivery of public money to Indra, involved in payments in B for the People's Party. Finally, AGE is the force of "no" to the spoliate of citizens' public resources. Of course we are the force of the "no" of the police to the public resources of the citizens, because that's what you're dedicated to. I don't know how you've always been free to talk about transparency. You see how transparent they are: you were forced, in April last year, when you passed that law of good management in the administration, to set up a public procurement court in Galicia. Well, a year ago, a year ago, we still didn't count on this recruitment court, which would be an excellent tool to see if you're as transparent as you're proud to be, because reality is that you're not. You've been assigned functions to prevent corruption to the Board of Auditors, and it turns out you're being cut off by two people who provided a service just to prevent such corruption. You are, of course, immersed in an operation of lifting and political cosmetics in the face of an electoral process that obviously has them and seriously overwhelmed. That's the reality. And please, Counselor, don't lie. Of course, Sepi has Indra's actions, that's obvious. It also obviously holds Navantia's title, but the organizational unit is from the Ministry of Defence, both from Navantia and Indra. Man, I imagine you'll know that, at least that you'll know. Don't mix one thing with the other. Obviously, the clear shareholdership that is from SEPI, but the organizational and political dependence, the political ownership of Navantia and Indra, is from Defense, and you know it. Don't hide it, don't hide it. Two very specific questions, very specific questions. What interest can the Ministry of Defence have in drone research for exclusively civilian use? I'd like you to explain it to me, because it's an intelligence that I find hard to understand. Why does Indra, an agency directly dependent on the Ministry of Defence, have so much interest in investing resources, not only economics, but also personal and human resources, in research directed solely to civil use? It costs me a lot to understand, maybe now the Ministry of Defence wants to become a kind of NGO, right? devoted to watching against -- I don't know -- demonstrations, or I don't know, I don't know. I want you to clarify it, because I'm also worried about the civilian uses that you understand you may have the Ministry of Defence. Secondly, how is it possible that a sector in which an increase in turnover of EUR 90 billion is expected in the next ten years – that is what official data say – may need the support of the Government? Why? Why does a business volume so important, multinationals with so many resources, need 20 million euros from the Greek Government, with a predictable turnover, as I just told you? Aren't you going to clean up the accounts of public companies, first privatized by the PP and then make public again...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u168	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u169	...for the People's Party, with the money of all the Greeks? You didn't say a single truth, you did only peripheral argumentation, but the reality is that you know that I didn't spill a single fact that wasn't true, and you can't deny it. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Adam Villamarín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u171	Thank you, President. Look, Mr. Castineira, why Lugo? Because things have to have a logic, and we're certainly nationalists and we're defending jobs all over the country, all over the country, throughout the Greek nation; that's very clear. But what I was asking Mr. Counsellor is, are you going to make Silicon Valley of Galicia an aerospace? Welcome! Let's applaud, no problem. But then you too should have kept the promises because of Feijóo in 2011 with the hemodynamics of HULA or the dairy sector. You're just with this, aren't you? You have a lot to defend – since it's in the province plan – in your province, very much, and many promises that your neighbors and neighbors have also asked you for, and that here you haven't voted for them; that is, that this is also there. So, we ask you – and we expect your answer, Counselor – is: we don't question what this project is in Rozas, but what is going to be the coordination if you really – as appears in the press release of the Government of Galicia – want to do an aerospace pole in Galicia, because companies are not there, companies are not around, companies are sprawling, they move. Assuming that we're talking about tech companies, because Mrs Martínez, of course, said: if those eighteen companies are going to be cleaning, catering, however, indeed, but the tech companies are going to move. What's going to be the relationship with the south center of Pontevedra province? And I really care about the degree of aerospace engineering, because things have to have a logic when they're designed, and much more when we're talking about how we want to generate future engineers and engineers, because of course, if you're going to invest, if we're all going to invest public money in Rozas, that has to have a coordination, and you have to explain it here, because it's a matter you didn't talk about. Because if, indeed, it will not be for military use, but only for civil use, companies and the technological and research centre are elsewhere. That's what you have to recognize, they're in another physical space, and I understand that you can move, and since it's very clear that this parliamentary group defends employment in Lugo, let's go! I think there's no doubt, but no doubt, none. But things have to be logical. As we were told at the time of an electric car factory in Melón or PLISA, things have to have a logic, and they have to have commitments, and the commitments that you here are demanding are of a technological and research nature – that is what we understand – not only of certification of these drones, but of research and technological application and innovation. Therefore, hold us in coordination, please. Second question, regarding civil and military uses. Look, it's about technology actually much has been written, and it's not from the 19th and 20th centuries, since antiquity, the greatest scientific discoveries made for the art of war and not for living together in peace. But, of course, we understand that we are at another time. We believe that the Ministry of Defence should not do research and innovation, but should be carried out in other ministries, in other ministries, that – we will – very clearly. Therefore, in fact, the Ministry of Defence's objectives are far from the objectives because of education or the objectives that the Ministry of Industry wants, and at the moment we also criticise Navantia's accession to the Ministry of Defence. And yes, because our suspicions when you talk here that there will be eighteen small and medium-sized companies in Greece, that you will have that relationship, look, according to the last public data, are 11,000 companies less since Feijó is president – 11,000, which is an interesting volume of companies – plus 35,000 industrial jobs lost since Feijóo is president, with a ratio of GDP in research and innovation that has already been perfectly reported, both by Mr. Losada and I have also explained to you about this data, of 0.89% compared to 1.2% that you promised in 2013, and we are in 2016, in this situation and in this context, let me tell you that this appearance here seems more like a propaganda, or a way of operating the People's Party, see wind, by taking three items that we all have recorded in the retina perfectly: wind, Pemex and now the aerospace career. So, how many jobs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u172	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u173	...direct, how many indirect jobs, civil use commitment? And, above all, for us to be clear that there will be a civil use of all the technology and research that is done in Rozas, you must explain what the coordination project is going to be with the aerospace centers that exist in the country, because if we have an aerospace center on one side, a faculty on another side and then an aerodrome on another side, let me tell you that there are those who have already said, well, that they are already looking for names, is JFK, there after the ocean, because here for example FC –it stays far better than ÑJ, but, well, any of them – we also put...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u175	...on the table if you want to take him to meditate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Adam. Parliamentary Group of Socialists. Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u177	Well, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counselor. Well, Mr. Castineira, I appreciate the intellectual contribution of the triangle, indeed, isosceles. I see it's good for variable geometry, which is very satisfactory. Look, all industrial projects are worth all the socialists. All we want is environmental respect and decent working conditions; we only want that, Counsellor. And please, we want the least publicity and propaganda possible. I'm not talking about officials, nor about legal advice, even though some officials could talk about it. He could speak of what was the general intervener of the Galician Board and then councillor of Fairy, who would function of the Autonomic Administration, who in eight hours justified the change of the model of financing of the Vigo hospital; from 350 to 1.4 billion euros in eight hours; indeed, very efficient that would function, Counsellor, very efficient. I mean, we can also talk about officers. I sleep, eh!, but that resource usually used in the People's Party to say that we assault officials when we question the politics of the People's Party, man!, as a resource, at last... so a little bit of clay may be fine, but I think a little more intellectual finer, Mr. Counselor. Look, at the BOE, the conventions are published, no compliments are published. It's a simple thing. No, I'm not telling you, I'm telling your party spokesman who supports the government. In the BOE and the DOG, the agreements are published, the compliments are checked at a later date, and as you do not provide this Parliament with information and we have to take advantage of the press notes, so we ask you here, Mr Castineira, so simply. I don't know if it's a equilateral, isosceles or stamen, either one of the three is worth it. Well, another question. Look, Indra and Inaer, with all my respect for all the private companies, hey, they didn't make a plane in their life. See if we know what company we're talking about! You know that, eh! you know that. They'll start doing it... No, don't look at me with that face, Mr. Castineira, I know something about this. Not a plane. Inaer is an aeronautical service company, which is not that I've made planes, it's that it doesn't produce anything. Nothing means anything. He has planes or helicopters that he provides for the National Transplant Organization, for fires, for marine rescue services, etc., but he doesn't make anything. And Indra actually makes technology, it's a technology company with which some planes are supplied. In the case of the planes or the drones of Rozas, they are planes of the company Tecnam, ancient Italian Partnership, which so far I know and that I have found on the relevant websites – in the DOG and the BOE this I did not look at, perhaps I have to look at it there – for now it is not expected that the Italian company has planned to transfer its production to Rozas, which I know. So what Indra is going to do – if I understand the information I have – is that these planes or drones that are manufactured in Italy come to Rozas and Rozas with a certain technology of control and measurement, depending on their civilian or military use, or whatever – I don't care. So we're talking about it, Counselor. By the way, I'm sure the contest was held with the whole world's cleanup, but it's true that, from being a foreign company and making planes, man! for I almost prefer Airbus and Boeing, which make 3,000 planes every year big, and not an aeronautical service company and a communications technology company, which is what Inaer and Indra are. So that's it. You and Mr. Castineira can tell us exactly what you think. And look, I saw, of course – because up there gives me the capacity – the contest, and I saw the score of the contest, and I'm going to stop a little, I need to stop a little – because it's in small letters and, finally, the presbycia begins to affect – on the score of some variables that this group considers absolutely underrepresented. At the R & D Joint Program Point, which I imagine is, within that commercial smart purchase, what you handled or what you posed to the Galega Innovation Agency. By the way, I find it hard to find here the role of Igape, but it's probably a problem of my interpretation. Commitments of financial or reinvestment approaches, 5% weighs. Industrial investment commitments linked to the association agreement, 5%, unless you have a DOG called, I downloaded it from the website. Commitments for the development of industrial chains in the area of influence, another 5%. Hey, don't you think they're hyperrevolutioning with the indirect impact of Galician industrial tissue? To me, seeing these numbers, it seems to me that it does, but I'm probably a bad idea. And so, Counselor, look, I'm going back to the beginning: investment engagement. You don't have to be in the DOG or the BOE, you beat me to being official information from the Galician Union. Real investment commitment, don't talk to me about mobilising... no, the paste that puts the board and the paste that companies put. By the way, if possible, the business portfolio is not like the UTE folder of the Álvaro Cunqueiro Hospital, which was asked for a loan from the European Investment Bank endorsed by the Galician Board. If possible, you don't have to endorse the credits you ask Indra and Inaer to build the installations of Rozas, much better for Galicia and the Greeks. Anyway, these little details don't matter. Number of jobs, Counsellor, and qualification of these jobs, because it's good to talk about I2C, RIS3, Industry 4.0... at last, I guess the next step will be something with 5, the rest of the sequence. I understand that, as in our intelligence tests, we have 2, 3, 4... the next number to me is a 5, but, well, maybe there's some other strategy. Don't you realize that? Yeah, yeah, yeah, I do, until now it's going like this, I guess the next strategy will have a 5. Investment, number of jobs and qualification of these jobs. And I'm not very good at talking here or about people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u178	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u179	...no specific companies that are not in the debate. Delta Vigo, Coasa and Udega, the three largest companies in the Galician aviation sector, do you know anything about this? I don't think they know what's coming from the press and what they hear from you. No, no, something... I mean, we understand each other.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u180	You have to finish, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u181	Do you know anything about the board's public money that seems to take Indra and Inaer to this project? As far as I'm concerned, of course not. The Chinae de Porto do Molle, in Nigeria; the agreement with Gain, 150,000 euros; the rest of the funds put the University of Vigo and the Franc Zone. Man!, probably setting the medal is a bit exaggerated even though they had landed there. Aeronautic Consortium Galego, mounted by counsellor Fernando Blanco, supported for a long time by counsellor Javier Guerra...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u182	Finish it, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u183	...and absolutely on stand by since you've been counsellor. I would also like to know why, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u184	Thank you, Mr. Losada. People's Parliamentary Group. Mr. Castineira Broz has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Losada, less bad than supporting the Rozas project, because if you don't!, or you would like that – I said, or I wanted to understand – the only thing that seems to bother you is that socialists are much less upset by propaganda. And I'd like you to tell me if you're with Mr. Knight or you're with Mr. Besteiro, because either one of them was going well and the other one is also doing pretty well and still going pretty well. So to talk about propaganda, it's you. [[Applause]] To talk about some propaganda, I even took a TV itself behind him, and so it was. [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Adam, I am convinced that I didn't want much less because I wanted to bother the Lugo people and say there were no jobs in Lugo. We know each other, and I know perfectly well that I wasn't going that way, much less, I'm convinced. And that's what I want you to understand, because we know each other and I'm convinced that you'd bet on employment in Lugo or any other part of Galicia, just like others – and what you're talking about exactly the same – regardless of which logically because what we want from Lugo is the development and development of our region, as it cannot be otherwise. And yes, Mr. Vázquez, I am of the Tealand, and the honor. And I assure you that I'm going many times and I'm not running around myself, and even if you're going after you want to stop one of the most important projects that can be carried out in the history of the Earth Tea for your development, even if you go, we're peaceful people, you can be sure that nobody's going to run it at scratches or much less, or much less. You can be sure, we're not like that or much less. [[Applause]] And you were talking about defending other subjects of interest to Lugo, such as hemodynamics and radiotherapy. Actually, I don't know if you know that hemodynamics has been working in Lugo for a while and radiation therapy for about a month or so has been working for about a month or so. And it's not, of course, at all that has been talked about by the demonstrations; it's for a programming and a work of the People's Party's Union, which has endowed the HULA with the services that we logically demand. And, by the way, Mr. Losada, in relation to what he said before the Cunqueiro Alvaro teams, Vigo, are the new ones, of course, the ones bought with the technological contest, are the ones of the last generation. And, yes, there are some who are the General Hospital Transferees, and therefore if they were General Hospital Transferees, as you will understand, they will be those who are and those who correspond. But the last purchases are the last generation and so on. [[Murmurs.]] And there's something else, Mrs. Adam. You were also talking – and they were talking about propaganda – about Pemex's propaganda. With Pemex there was a compromise of two fleets, they're there, they're realities. That's propaganda, what you call propaganda is reality. And Rozas, of course, I invite her, and I hope that she agreed in the Commission there in November, so that she could make a visit, and between the Presidency of Parliament and the Council, she was working on a visit, soon I hope we can go visit the works that are there and see that they are realities. The first phase of the construction of hangars, etc., is already about to finish what is China, one of the parts or the legs of what is the project of the Rozas technology park. And Mrs Martínez – and she is indeed right – said that this must be linked to a worker training process in order to be able to compete and access those jobs. So much so that this year in Ourense they were telling you that at the University of Vigo in Ourense there is a new qualification, which is that of Aeronautical Engineering, and in Lugo, at the Center of Integrated Teachings of Vocational Training The Mercedes, for the course 2016-2017 is already scheduled for programming of higher vocational training cycles for precisely these specialties. So it goes in parallel logically in the formation of people to access those jobs. And what is clear, Mr. Vázquez – to finish – is that when you want to say no to a project you're always looking for excuses, and you're looking for others to tell lies, and you're in possession of the truth. [[Murmurs.]] But look, when you were ruling in Andalusia along with the Socialist Party, this project wanted to take you there. And maybe the problem they have is that this project wasn't for Andalusia, which was their goal. Ask and look at the hemerothecs where they planned to carry this project. Look at Huelva, to see that it was exactly what they wanted at the time of Mr. Blanco in Madrid and you co-governing in Andalusia. Look at that, because it's there. [[Murmurs.]] And look, what is clear is also that for Lugo they tell us "no" a project of unmanned civil-use aircraft and for Ferrol, however, they are worth frigates, which seems to be recreational boats. And they're insisting on the Ministry of Defense...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u186	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u187	...to carry out the construction of frigates, which, of course, are not much less recreational boats. But there's no problem with that. Is that Mrs. Yolanda Díaz is from Ferrol and then she'll throw more than you by Lugo, she'll throw more than you by Lugo, possibly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u188	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u189	Or the cucumbers that are planned to build in Ferrol, which, yes, his mayor – put it like this – covers his nose and says: by conscience vote, but I vote for the economic situation, but I do not agree very much. But he votes in favour of it.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u190	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u191	...these cucumbers, which are also sure to be for the recreation of the Arab cheques. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u192	Thank you, Mr. Castineira. Close. The Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u193	Thank you very much, Madam President. I am grateful again for the interventions by the different groups on this technological and industrial project of unmanned aircraft, which, as I have already had occasion to reflect in this House, is a country project, a project that aims, of course, to convert Galicia into a sector with high growth expectations and a country project that for this government is key from the point of view of the process of modernization and industrial diversification that we are driving. We all want to work to fix industrial fabric in Galicia and we understand that this project will strengthen our productive fabric and create quality jobs, qualified jobs, and, of course, offer new alternatives to our young people and our girls. A country project, Mr. Vázquez, which has as its starting point the conviction of our talent and the conviction of the potential that can bring our talent. I regret that we can, AGE and all the confluences want Galicia to return a hundred years ago and that Galicia has no industrial fabric, and that Galicia does not have an opportunity in the aeronautics sector, that it does not have an opportunity in the automotive sector, that it does not have an opportunity in the naval sector; ultimately, that Galicia has no opportunity. [[Murmurs.]] Surely these kinds of ideological approaches respond to countries like Venezuela, but they do not respond to Galicia's reality, they do not respond to the reality of the European Union, and they do not, of course, respond to the reality that seeks to defend this government. [[Applause]] A country project, ladies and gentlemen, which is a pioneer in promoting R & D+i to improve public services in Galicia, and, of course, Mrs Martínez, with this shared objective of improving the quality of life of the Greeks and the Greeks. And, of course, all the projects we're going to work on are going in that direction and in no case, in any case, moving any military project into our country. And this, ladies and gentlemen, we are developing it by carefully fulfilling all legality and being guaranteed in all aspects that we are developing, because this government is fully aware of what is at stake. A project of EUR 115 million is at stake, of which EUR 75 million is private investment that we have managed to attract to Galicia, and the creation of 600 jobs, between direct jobs and indirect jobs, and also concrete contracts for our productive fabric, for our small and medium-sized enterprises, for our knowledge centres. So, it's a project that has a very clear vision and which aims to provide our country with an opportunity, a historic opportunity, because this government believes in the benefits of open innovation, because it believes in the multiplier effect of public-private collaboration and because of course we believe that working on Galicia's image to move to the market that Galicia is a place where you can innovate, where you can invest, is a government goal. And that's right, ladies and gentlemen, simply because we have installed capabilities, we have talent, and, of course, our small and medium-sized companies will be working in this direction. And all these arguments are the ones that have led us, first of all, to create this Aeroported Research Centre in Rozas, in collaboration with INTA, which we will inaugurate at the end of this April with the new facilities, and that we will also advance a call for the development of an R+D+i program in tune with Galicia's interests. Mrs. Adam, there's a perfect coordination in this project. This project starts from an industrial and technological aeronautical pole to be developed in Rozas, through this Airborne Research Center and through the investments that Indra and Inaer have committed to the pre-commercial partnership agreement. And from there we will complete that bet with the contributions made in other research centres, such as the Aerospace Innovation Centre in Porto Molle, logically with the contributions that can be made from the University of Vigo, through the development of aeronautical engineering. And, therefore, we will add to all the capabilities that Galicia has in the aeronautical sector, in the research sector. But the project, clearly, is to develop an industrial and technological pole in Rozas, and we'll be working together with INTA through the Airborne Research Center and also through investments committed by Indra and Inaer. And, Mr. Vázquez, with regard to the permits and certifications of the Rozas aerodrome to perform these tests with unmanned planes, we've already told him. I'll repeat it again. When you don't want to collect specific government information, you don't, but you know perfectly well that you have to address INTA, you know it perfectly well, and that's what the Congress of Deputies has just done, and this information, according to which we have been informed from INTA, has already been referred to that House. So you have it very easy, but all the information about the permits and certifications of the Rozas aerodrome has to ask the INTA for. Finally, we're working on the development of this industrial pole. With Indra and Inaer we will sign an agreement to jointly develop an R+D+i program, an R+D+i program, Mr. Losada, which is the most committed to Galicia – that is why these two companies won the contest – and, of course, we will make a timely follow-up for each and every one of the commitments that will be reflected in the contract. So I have no doubt that this government will follow up. And what we're going to try to ensure is that all technologies developed in this project can actually be used. Mrs. Martínez, Mrs. Adán, the Government project has a clear objective: to develop technologies that the various departments of the Galician Union can implement in their public service policy. And, therefore, the objective of this government – and so it is reflected in its own bid – is that we mark some technological challenges, which involve the various councils of the Galician Union, and what we are asking companies to develop technology to use this technology through unmanned aircraft, with the objective of working on fire prevention, managing primary resources, managing heritage, managing marine rescue actions, managing emergencies and tourist flows. In short, what we're asking of Indra and Inaer is that they develop investment and research projects to respond to the challenges this Galician Union has in order to improve the public services we offer to the Greeks. This is the main objective of the project, and of course that is the objective we are pursuing with the aircraft bet on in Rozas. Of course, Galicia is showing that it has the capacity to develop this new industry, which has the ability to fix population also in Galicia from within, Mrs. Adam. And, in Galicia, ladies and gentlemen, we're going to develop technology linked to unmanned aircraft, in Galicia we're going to manufacture our own vehicles that develop through the Research Centre, in Galicia we're going to market models that leave these factories and also in Galicia we're going to use those technologies to improve the public services of the Greeks and the Greeks. And all of this responds to that primary goal that is to develop a new industry, create quality jobs and generate new opportunities for the future for our young people. This project, ladies and gentlemen, is a "yes" to innovation, a "yes" to industry and, above all, a "yes" to Galicia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u194	Thank you, Counselor. To announce, as the parliamentary groups already know, that there is a change in the agenda: the fourth-place GNP will be discussed today in third place. So we started point 4, non-law propositions. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr Miguel Ángel Santalices Vieira and seven other Members, on the actions to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in connection with the early detection programme of colorectal carcinoma
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u195	First of all, that of the Galician People's Parliamentary Group on the actions to be taken by the Union in connection with the early detection of colorectal carcinoma. There will be three amendments to this initiative: one from the Joint Group, one from the Socialist Group and one from the Nationalist Block Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u196	Mr. Núñez Centeno has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u197	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies. We are bringing here today, ladies and gentlemen, an initiative that we consider important. And it seems important to us for the health of the Greeks and the Greeks because it has a very common disease, every day more, and with a very high mortality rate, despite the advances in diagnosis and treatment and prevention. We're talking about colon and rectum cancer. Last day 31 was celebrated on World Day for the Prevention of Colon Cancer. The Spanish Cancer Association wanted to remind you of the situation in which the squabbling is found in different autonomous communities. The first community to develop a piloting program, a piloting of this pilot, was Catalonia in 2000, but it was still at the end of the year 14 in a 23% deployment figure. Today, the best coverage figures are in the Basque Country and Valencia, which cover 100% of its population, while others such as Madrid, Extremadura or Andalucia have only developed their screening programs at 5, 2,6 and 1% respectively at the end of the year 14. Colorectal cancer is a tumor disease that occurs in the thick intestine and rectum, and in most cases – around 80% – originated from an intestinal polyps that malignantizes after a long period of time, calculated between three and fifteen years, which allows its detection in initial stages and even premature phases. In total, it is the malignant tumor of greatest incidence in Spain, with figures of between 28,500 and 33,800 new cases per year, adding both sexes. It represents between 10 and 15% of the total tumors. It's more common in men, calculating that one in twenty-one men or one in thirty women will have colon cancer before they reach 74 years of age. They die in Spain about 15,000 people/year because of this tumor. Today the survival of five years is similar to that of the European measure; it is 49%, 49.5% if it settles in the colon and 43% if it is in the right. The epidemiological trend of colorectal cancer shows that it will continue to be a tumor of great impact on the Spanish and Welsh population, with a total increase in the number of cases, although there is a decrease in the mortality rate and an increase in survival to five years. In view of these figures, we would have to think that people or the population perceive it as a concern for their health, but, far from that, it is hard to have a family member who is suffering from the disease, and they consider the citizens much more important and worrying about prostate cancer in men and breast cancer in women. And the truth is, most colorectal tumors are sporadic, between 70 and 80% of the cases, have nothing to do with, there's no affected family disease. Family aggregation occurs only between 20 or 25% of the cases, which should lead to greater concern about this disease, its risk factors and greater participation of the population in childcare programs. The main risk factor for colorectal cancer is age. Logically, it's the only thing we can't act on. More than 90% of tumors dance in over 50 years. This makes it considered a middle-risk population the whole population greater than 50 years, without having family history, and at high risk any family history of tumor disease or inflammatory bowel disease. There are other known risk factors and those on which it is possible to act. They would be diet rich in fats and poor in fruits and vegetables, diet rich in red meat, lack of physical exercise, obesity, smoking, diabetes and high alcohol consumption. Acting on these factors is possible. It would be primary prevention, with educational measures, information and actions to modify these habits. Secondary prevention includes encryption strategies and aims to identify asymptomatic individuals with precarious lesions or at an early stage of tumor progression. We know that there will be more cases if primary prevention measures are not implemented and secondary prevention measures will also be implemented. The average cost of diagnosis and treatment of colorectal cancer is very high. According to data published in the year 8, it was worth EUR 27,000 per treatment, without accounting for the new biologics that apply in more serious cases. Colon cancer is a disease that can be cured around 90% with early detection. Squad programs can help reduce disease mortality by one third. The analysis of hidden blood in feces every two years in population between 50 and 69 years is recognized as the most effective in the world, being more effective and cost efficient, with much difference, than other cancer prevention programs in other diseases such as prostate, breast or cervical. The launch of a colon cancer screening program requires a large infrastructure, a large number of human and material resources, administrative personnel, nursing personnel, specialists in engineering, anesthesia, pathological anatomy or preventive medicine. The cat in Galicia began in March 13 at the EOXI of Ferrol, who had more experience in integrated management, with the expectation of inviting the entire population to participate in it within two years. And it was accomplished, reaching 52,100 people in the age group between 50 and 69 years. More than 52,100 people participated in the program by 48%, which is the highest share of all programs developed in different autonomous communities. Of these tests, 7.19% of participants were positive, a total of 1,812, and more than 1,700 colonoscopy were performed. There were injuries in 1,117 of these cases, 106 of which were carcinomas, fortunately 70% in initial degrees, and also the rest were premaryligin lesions, high, medium or low risk adenomas. In Ourense, during the first eight months of the program's operation, the Galego Health Service has already detected the presence of injuries in 214 people, a very significant figure considering that so far only tests were conducted in 8,700 of the more than 23,000 people cited. That program in Ourense is going to be gradually expanding over the next few months and in the future it will expand to all of Galicia. Despite proven efficiency, the Ourense program still has a low share, which is 37.53%. Over the next few months – as we said – all users in the province are expected to be captured. Of the results of the first 214 colonoscopy, 16 people had colorectal cancer. I want to finish by saying my own words to Dr. Joaquín Cubiella, CHUO's diesthetologist and one of the promoters of this program in Galicia: the population must participate in the program, because participating is an option to change the future. With this program we're going to prevent cancer, we're going to reduce mortality due to colorectal cancer, but for this the population must be aware that with a simple proof, with the realization of an painless gesture and easy taking of a sample at home, it can be saving their lives, because at the moment, the Plastic Service in Ourense is diagnosing an average of two colorectal cancers per week. It is a very small sample, which can be done easily at home, with a very simple shipping system, and which in most cases will be negative. But if it's positive, the effect of getting on as soon as the treatment is going to change the safe future. So because of the importance of this colorectal cancer screening program for the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, this is why we urge the Council to progressively extend it to the other integrated management structures of Sergas. Waiting for the support of the groups, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u198	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u199	Thank you, President. Good afternoon again. Last March in Europe, the European Year for the Prevention of Colorectal Cancer was celebrated, and the last day of that month was World Day for the Fight against Cancer. According to the Spanish Medical Oncology Society, one in three people will ever have cancer in their lives. It has to be said that colon or colorectal cancer is the malignant tumor that has the most incidence in the Spanish state, with almost 15%, followed by prostate, lung, breast and bladder cancer. We're talking about approximately 20,000 new cases in men and 30,000 new cases in women. Also say that in the state as a whole an average of 15,000 people a year died from this cancer. To say that Galliza, along with Asturias and Basque Country, are the points of the whole state where there is a greater incidence of this cancer. In fact, Galicia is the fifth cause of death. About 55% of cancer cases are cured, and this kind of cancer is cured. Prevention is very important. And if we divide it by stadiums, stage 1 can almost heal 95% of the cases; in stage 2, 70; in stage 3, around 50%; and in stage 4, about 20%. If you say that the prognosis of tumors detected in screening programs, that's to say, in a way, is the best prognosis of tumors found, because the tumor, if you've given symptoms, has a different stage. The main risk factors are age, from 50 years old, not too healthy habits like tobacco or alcohol, a sedentary life, fat-rich diets, hypercalorics, and also having had previous conditions like colon polyps or ulcerative colitis. To say that in 2007 the European Parliament recommended to all Member States the implementation of colourectal cancer screening programmes. In 2010 the Senate Plenary unanimously adopted a motion urging the Central Government to propose to the International Health Council appropriate measures, based on scientific evidence that could lead to the prevention of colon and rectum cancer, campaigns to raise awareness of the population, promote healthy life, set up in the middle risk population by means of blood tests in the faeces, with colonoscopy in case of positive and bad results, and surveillance of the high risk population. The validity and effectiveness of this test was demonstrated in a previous study that was conducted for four years to 60,000 people. The goal of colon cancer seizure is to detect and remove precancer polyps to prevent the development of malignant tumors or their detection in early stages. It has to be said that in Galicia more than 715,000 people are in this age stretch of 50 years, 50-69. Together began the pilot program in February 2013 in the health area of Ferrol. He was addressed to men and women in a 50-69-year-old age group, which is considered a high-risk group. And the chosen test was the hidden blood test in the faeces, with exploration intervals every two years. It's a very low cost test, as they said before, and in addition to early detection, apart from predicting it, you can cope more successfully, even taking less aggressive treatments towards the patient or the patient. So you can predict a certain number of cancers and a savings in health spending, and this is especially fundamental for those people who have no family history, because those who have a history are high-risk populations and are subject to another follow-up. If you say that the implantation in the health area of Ferrol has been gradually increasing over the three years. In fact, it is at the beginning of this year 2016 when it is implanted in the entire health area belonging to Ferrol; in fact, in my county, that we are across the river, it took two years to implant. Commenting that a total of 25,000 people took part in this pilot plan, in which more than 52,000 people were invited to participate, which means 48.36, as they said before. If we have to say – the figure – that of 1,812 cases that were positive in the occult blood test, a positivity rate of 7,19, where 1,800 colonoscopy was indicated, where 106 cases of invasive cancer and 263 high-risk adenomas were detected in 1,727 colonoscopy performed. It is known that Ourense and other populations in this province are being extended and that it is going – it seems to me – to extend to Pontevedra in a short time.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u200	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u201	It must be said that the Ministry of Health has set – we say – a goal, which was that in 2015 half the population of the state had this type of access to this program and that by 2020 it had reached 100%. And the result is very sharp. In fact, Galicia is one of the communities in the state that has a very low percentage of implantation, in fact it doesn't reach 10%.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u202	You've got to go finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u203	And there are other communities – I mean, like Euskadi, that are 100%, and it's one of the communities where there's the most incidence. To comment – and that is very important, because if I saw myself, well, related to this kind of case – that is very important to information, because I think that if you had communicated to people with broadcast campaigns and not just left it to patient associations, which seems to be the ones that have to receive this commission, I think success would be much greater. So we do present the replacement amendment, because it is clear that we have to implement it in a progressive way. But I think, because of the evidence, don't I? of evil and – let's say – especially in Galicia, that the deadlines have to be much faster and should, if you have been implanted for three years and you don't reach 10%...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u204	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u205	...I think times should be much shorter to reach 100% of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mrs. Prado Colors.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u207	Good afternoon. Indeed, colorectal cancer is a malignant tumor of the most frequent. Data has already been given here. Some say it's the third major in men after the prostate and lung, other cologne already directly behind the lung, and in women the second, behind the breast. We also agreed – and it is obvious – that better prevention is needed, easier access to diagnostic tests, and it is demonstrated that the survival rate for the disease can reach 90% if it is caught in the initial stages, but the reality is that the percentage of those caught in the initial stages is still very low; of course, because this early diagnosis phase is not installed, right? In fact, there's little healing, and when you don't take it in those early stages, in many cases it doesn't exceed a few years of life for many patients. This cancer can be seen in an important way with these early detection programs. So, of course, in the BNG we agree on the importance of shrimp for this early detection, it is fundamental to prevent it, it is essential to cope more successfully if it is detected in already implanted stages and also allows to apply less aggressive treatments for patients, right? It is clear, therefore, that this crane allows this prevention and increases the expectations of survival. Now, of course, we don't agree on how you're taking this issue, do you? In Galicia, following the agreement at the state level of 2013, he began to develop with a pilot experience in Ferrol, and the objective of the pilot experience initiated in Ferrol, said by representatives, because of Sergas, is that he did not intend to demonstrate the effectiveness of the lad, who was already demonstrated, but rather that what he intended was to lay the foundations for his operation to soon extend it to the rest of Galicia; that is, the pilot plan was to determine how to implement it and extend it to the whole because of our country, right? With which we have that effectiveness is demonstrated, it is determined what is the target population, that population between 50 and 69 years old. It is clear that the cost of the test is very low, between 2 and 3 euros in front of the..., the People's Party's MP figureed it at 27,000 the cost, there are other studies that number it in an average of 35,000 or 37,000 euros the treatment, right, with which it is an effective and cheap test. That's why BNG presents a replacement amendment. What we say is that the Galician Parliament urges the Government of Galicia to implement in all the EOXI of Galicia the early detection of colorectal carcinoma before the end of 2016. It might seem a very hasty date, we could come to an agreement to put a deadline on it, because it's a bit higher. What we do not agree with is that colorectal cancer is more the subject of advertising, that it is the subject of press statements, that it is the subject of appearances in this Parliament, than of its actual expansion. Because the implantation of this apricot can prevent deaths, predictable and preventable deaths, right, if you actually do that detection. And, of course, at the BNG we are not prepared to have this theme as it is object – as I say – more propaganda than effectiveness, is it? In fact, we can read press headlines since 2013 where we're talking about the implementation of the colorectal shrimp, the implantation, which is already reaching Ourense, which is already coming to Pontevedra. Look, at the last appearance of the counsellor in this Parliament said textually: in the same strategic line, we talked about developing interventions of health promotion and disease prevention with an integral vision – as we said – and one of the projects is expanding the colorectal tie, which has already started in Ferrol and Ourense with very high results, with 2,094 colonoscopy and 31,900 tests carried out; i.e....
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u208	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u209	...we're campaigning and we're going to expand to all of Galicia's EOXIs this program that has achieved such good results. I mean, you come here today with an initiative asking for what the councilman promised already in the last appearance, that the predecessor in the office already said they were already at a speed of deployment, that today the manager of the EOXI of Pontevedra-The Salnes announces in press round. I mean, what we're not prepared for in the BNG is to pay for listening to the People's Party's reports on this matter. We think that...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u210	Finish it, Mrs. Prado, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u211	...you have to do it and you have to set deadlines, because, in fact, your implantation can prevent many deaths, with which a statement of intentions that follow that line doesn't seem enough to us. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, we believe that we must do so, but in a reasonable time. As it was well said here, three years for you to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u213	At this rate, we're going to need too many years to make it effective. Which we'd be in favour of, but...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u214	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u215	...always and when it's set for a few more or less decent deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u216	Thank you. For the Socialists' Parliamentary Group, Mrs Acuña do Campo has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u217	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, gentlemen. Colon cancer doesn't seem to be a concern in the People's Party. Mr President, with all due respect, there is a lot of evidence that you are already engaged in the election campaign. But I'm afraid they're not glued, they're not credible, because, of course, after eight years, of destroying Greek public health, they're here today to say they're very worried about our health, in the time of discount, because the truth is that there's nothing right about it. But still, Mr President, on this initiative, what we are looking at is that, if we are concerned about our health, they are a little bit better. Because look, you ask the Government to continue extending the early detection of colorectal carcinoma. But it turns out that in other autonomous communities – you mentioned some here, but you didn't mention this – in other autonomous communities like Catalonia, this program has been implemented since 2000. Sixteen years have gone by, and if, as you say, in eight months in Ourense if 200 cases have been detected, you'll see how much suffering you could have avoided at that time. But it's just that, in addition to the government of Mr. Touriño, in the famous Bipartite, this program had been designed and also... - yes, sir, I don't know if you're well informed, I'm -...and studied your viability, so Mr. Feijóo's commitment doesn't seem too big. But besides, as you know very well, in 2013, this population screening has been included in the common public health system service portfolio. I mean, you come here to tell the Government you do your duty; you must suspect you don't. And on the other hand, I also want to point out that by the year 2012, our parliamentary group was asking for a protocol of verbatimism. That, Mr President, as you put in the mouth of this specialist of Ourense, preceded by an information and awareness-raising campaign, which is what the common sense says. So, honourable Member, I am afraid that your proposal will come late and also light will arrive – let us say –. That is why we tabled a replacement amendment, in which we asked the Government to logically extend this programme progressively throughout the public health system in Greece, but, yes, following a timetable; a timetable, Mr., prepared, of course, by the Council and which should also bring here to this House before the end of this session. Ladies and gentlemen, if in Ferrol, where he started as a pilot program, he stopped three years, with that rhythm, so that he would arrive – I say no more – to the seven cities of Galicia, we need twenty-one years. Oh, my God, right? I don't want to see him. Well, in addition, if we really want to ask the Government to do something about cancer, no doubt, the first thing we have to ask you to do is to get the Kingdom back, the Yellow Tumor Registry, also from Mr. Tourinño's time. And I'm talking about this record because it seemed to us -- and it still seems to us -- a guarantee of fairness and the quality that attention of this pathology in our autonomous community needs. Because I don't know if you know, sir, that next to you, in the office of the People's Valedor, one day yes and another, if you get complaints of being affected by these differences in the approach and of course in access to medication in tumors, in relation to the differences between Galicia and other autonomous communities, and also in our own country, according to the agency or area where the patient resides. But also, Mr President, we want to take advantage of this debate to ask for something more, give us a little more passage, and we ask that the cervix cancer of uterus be reviewed, as they are certainly doing other autonomous communities, such as my neighbouring Castle-Leon and Basque Country. And it also recommends that the European Union modify the opportunistic seizure that is being made of cervix cancer, which is also focused on psychology, in order to make it into a population crib, i.e. more generalized and also using the detection of the human papilloma virus.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u218	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u219	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if you really care about the health of the Greeks and the Greeks, in addition to a matter as serious as cancer, you will accept our amendment. If you don't, it'll be another hair patch, besides...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u221	...before the election campaign, and so, for that, they won't count on our support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u222	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. You have the floor to Mrs. Solla Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u223	Thank you, President. Well, without trying to make it back here, this seems to be one of the initiatives that the People's Party is simply bringing into advertising space, which is the truth that, in the context of the health issue, is quite common in this plenary. As for non-law propositions, it refers to health... – Isn't it counting time? – – I said – it is quite common that non-law proposals are used because to make announcements from the council itself. In fact, for years now, scientific evidence has said that the cost-benefit of performing the hidden blood test for colon cancer screening makes it recommended as a method of early detection against other types of methods that could not be used and which are therefore more cruel. As early detection, it could not be used as a pencil, right?, except for those people who have a background and for whom it may be indicated. And I myself visited precisely, in those official visits, some of the centers where the pilot plan began, and, well, the truth is, there was a lot of satisfaction in what labs are about the work done or the initial result. It would have to be evaluated in the medium and long term. I imagine the Council should do this. And as soon as, as has already been said here, other autonomous communities, they have already implemented precisely this program. Now, and as you've already said here, every time the People's Party defends the implementation of the program and already for the Council itself the last time, well, it's already said here, in the presence of the counselor but also in the audience regarding the budgets of 2016, that it was going to continue with the implementation of this plan, the truth is that it doesn't make much sense that an initiative is being brought forward that in theory the Council itself says that they are already doing; that is, either it's not being done or we're just bringing it up to give it publicity. The truth is, it doesn't make much sense, unless the intention is to advertise the cancer detection plan, right? The People's Party, with this initiative, introduces nothing new, no deadline, no timetable, no specific budget, absolutely nothing. I don't know what they're going to do with the amendments put forward by opposition groups. With regard to the initiative itself, it would not have much more to say, and it would be positive, since, therefore, the People's Party, its group, uses this non-law proposal to advertise the work of the Council, which would also indicate to us that budget will need, when they publish results in the medium and long term. In addition, you said in your intervention that there was a need for an increase in equipment, that there was a need for plans -- let's say -- more working groups, diesthetologists, workers and public health workers. For we would also like to know whether this progress in the implementation of the plan will be accompanied by an improvement in the health service, once we have already reported in addition to this House – this very honourable Member – the delay in diagnostic tests – not in this one but elsewhere – in consultations on on on theology and chemotherapy treatments, and I can say so because I have also lived it close enough. And therefore every time you're being cut into the human media, services that have to care for people who are sick of cancer, it would be good that, since you say that there is a need for an increase in health care, because you are told whether this implementation of the plan will be accompanied by an increase in these health and health care. And by the way, it would be nice if we were to be told – here we were told about Regalia – because for example, what is the impediment that cancer data becomes public data again – public I refer to public ownership, not that they publish them, don't they? – every time what is now being the Galician Oncologic Center is private management, it is private ownership, and it is precisely who stores and manages all the cancer data in our community. You know who manages the cancer-related clinical trials, and what's more, it's a private management and a directive because it's related to companies that have nothing to do with health, like the aluminium industry. So it would be nice if you told us here whether that data is going to be public again or whether you're going to continue by providing that data to private companies. Or it would also be interesting if we were to comment on this change made to accommodate Mr. Amancio Ortega's donation and which is also related to cancer treatment. You know we have initiatives and we're waiting for them to tell us how they modified that high-tech privatization to introduce that -- let's say -- of the millions that you think Mr. Amancio Ortega has given us. I'm done. Since the initiative has no new contribution from the People's Party, because I hope at least they will tell us how these things will be done that I asked to implement because this plan.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u225	Thank you, President. First of all, I wanted to thank the tone and the approaches of the different groups. Well, Mrs. Acuña, I see you very worried about the election campaign, you'll tell me later at the café which is the concern, but I see you frankly worried. Of course, speaking of the start of the program in Catalonia in 2000, what he didn't say is that in fourteen years they serve 23% of the Catalan population; that's forgotten. Well, you talk about advertising, and I have to tell you that, in fact, this is an initiative presented by the People's Group with the idea that it is reflected in the media of general information, but not in the sense that you give propaganda from the Government of the Union, but to help the whole population be aware of the efficiency and effectiveness of this simple evidence and the influence it can have on the survival of Greeks and Greeks. I wanted to thank, as it could not be otherwise, the magnificent work, the involvement and commitment of the professionals who participated and participate in the extension of this program. This program cannot be executed hastily, nor does it have too much calm, it has a time of deployment to be respected, it has to assess staff needs. Right now, in the next few years, there's going to be a significant deficit of digestive surgeons. I believe that the competent authorities in education and health must take steps to ensure that this deficit is met in the forthcoming calls by specialists. And, of course, we can't accept the BNG amendment, because the deadlines they handle are unreachable. If we agree with the amendment by the Joint Group as to shortening the deadlines, and I hope that we can reach a compromise. We could even reach an agreement with the Socialist Group at its first point on the schedule. And the remaining points, Mrs Acuña, I don't think I'm from this debate. I urge you to present proposals or initiatives in this sense. At the announcement made by the Council of the extension of the screening program to the areas of Pontevedra and Lugo, we trust that as soon as possible the ones of Santiago, Vigo and La Coruña will be added to the possibility that the entire population of Greece will benefit from this important program of prevention of colon cancer. Among all of you, ladies and gentlemen, we have to get the participation in this program to be massive. The crib is more evidence of the magnificent public health enjoyed by the Greeks and the Greeks. Citizenship knows and appreciates it, despite the campaigns to destabilize the Welsh public health, to try to undermine the Government of the People's Party that is being done for some people and collectives. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u226	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. We move on to the following non-legislative proposal from the Alternative Glaga de Left, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Agriculture in relation to the dairy agreement and the action it must take in relation to the talks it is opening. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr Sánchez García, on the demands to be made by the Government of Greece to the Ministry of Agriculture in relation to the dairy agreement and the action to be carried out in connection with the talks that are being opened
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u227	No amendments were made to this initiative. Mr Sánchez García has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u228	Good afternoon. We have a very timid, very sensible, very measured initiative. We do not want to make the revolution with this GNP, nor do we even urge the Ministry of Agriculture – do not give too much attention, PP gentlemen, because we already know that the Spanish PP has nothing to do with the independence of the People's Party of Galicia, etc., etc... We only demand basically on this initiative that it be complied with with with the signing agreement in September, which we already qualify as a good will agreement, with few effective measures, voluntary measures, without any kind of sanctions measures for non-compliance, etc., without often legal or regulatory developments of what already existed. But still, that minimum agreement is not even being complied with, not even if it is being complied with, and there is a very clear example, that it is one of the measures that could be effective if they did so generally, that it was to inform, transparent the chain and report what the distribution pays, industry and industry to the owners and each industry what they pay for, and what they get from the distribution, that would be an efficient measure that costs no money and for which only political will is needed. That's what's called the price assignment decree. Well, the deal was in September, we're in mid-April, I think it's seven months, and all we have is a draft and a promise two weeks ago that was going to be approved last week, not even approved. A decree, a royal decree, an agreement that they said was historic to solve the milk problems and they didn't even draft a royal decree, they didn't even publish a royal decree, and with the danger of that report from the National Competition Market Commission, which works for those who work. And in the meantime, seven months later, after that agreement that was reached because the glovers mobilized throughout the spring and all summer, when the counselor denied that there was a crisis in the dairy sector, on the same day, in mid-July, that there were thousands of livestock in Santiago de Compostela, the Counsellor, the former, denied that there was a crisis in the dairy sector, denied that it was a difficult situation for the farmers, well, because thanks to these mobilizations it was possible that at least the People's Party would move – yes, not to solve the problem – if it moved to stop the mobilizations. Well, after those months, after that historic agreement, which was better than that of France, here we follow with the prices of the lowest milk in the whole state and in Europe, with prices below the costs of production, with prices that are falling and that will fall further during spring, a situation that will worsen; the same situation in the relations between industry and the owners, of abuse of their position of domination, with cases of use of milk as a claim product, without any industrial project for the transformation of milk, as it has been promised; and yet, seven months later, that we have not even published that royal decree of assignment of prices, the Counselor lady leaves at a conference saying that at the time of protests. Once again to blame the sector, to criminalize the mobilizations, and I ask the Counsellor if when a person invests, works and because of an inefficient administration, or who has no desire to solve the problems, his activity becomes inviolable and does not even meet what he works for power, when is the time to protest, when is the time to mobilize? If they are promised again and again that the measures to which the Administration is obliged will be taken, which is to control certain distribution practices, which have been in the legislation since 1995, the sale to the loss and use of the claim product, which has been in the legislation since 1995, and the administration does nothing, when is the time to protest? When the public administration invests millions of euros in failed industrial projects, and takes the money away, when is it time to protest? And above all, the glovers have a very demanding activity, and when they get out of the house or the farms to spend the day to focus on some industry, to do the work that the Administration and the Government of Unity doesn't do, they have a very important cost, eh! When someone makes that decision, it's not because it is, it's because you don't have another choice anymore. The moneywinners preferred that you solve the problems you have to solve, but they have to do it, and it's the only way you move something. As long as it follows the closure of farms, and we continue to hear that nothing happens, that this is to improve the competitiveness of our farms, that those that close are small, that are not competitive, etc. That's a lie, they don't shut down the least competitive ones, they close up in Galicia farms that with other governments they don't close, they're lucky to be located in a country that has a government like us. There are countries where the duties have been done before the removal of quotas, many billion have been invested in Europe in previous years in industrial transformation projects, the land management work is done, and where those duties have been done – for example, without going further into Asturias – where it was done, the gainees compete in advantage with the Greeks. And maybe the same exploitation on one side of the Eo survives and here on the Eo does not survive. That's the reality. Because you're the ones who haven't done the homework, don't blame your own owners, who already do things well for their interests. So we also asked the People's Party, if they close, as this Director General of the Ministry of Agriculture said, about 5,500 farms in the next few years in the Spanish State, if we follow with the same percentage that 70% of the farms that they close are Welsh, they touch us about 3,500, we have 9,000, of which will live the countryside of this country? If the little of the productive sectors that we have with certain entities are going to close, if that is not replaced by a processing industry, or by some other kind of economic activity, that is going to live in rural Galicia, and that this country is going to live with other sectors, which are not milk, in the same situation? So it's a minimum initiative, to simply urge it to be met with the signing, to be complied with with with the agreement. We shall see the position of the People's Party towards this initiative. It's just that the ministry fulfills its commitments, that they were no longer very ambitious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u229	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u230	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. It is true that this LNP is minimal, during the year 2015 seven out of every ten dairy farms that were forced to close were Germans, and throughout the year 2015 the German gain farms recorded the lowest prices in both the state and the European Union. Under pressure from tractors and mobilisations affected by the crisis in the sector, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment signed in September an agreement with the industries and distributors, providing for the construction of a sustainable value chain, ensuring the margins of all sides. An agreement that was attended by representatives of the Government of the United States, as a guest of stone, to come out in the photo and prove what they do. I am very afraid that the People's Party will not do so, as has already happened in the Congress of Members, in the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment, when you abstained on an initiative presented by the PSOE for the approval of a sanctioning regime that will make that agreement effective in September. They should not forget that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Environment itself accounted for production costs for a Greek farm at 34 cents per litre, and that more and more of the livestock farms are being forced to sell their production entirely or partially below 20 cents per litre, supposedly for milk in powder. The change in prices affects, yes, consumers who have increased it, but not producers, who in the face of the passivity and indifference of the Government of the Union and the council are forced to sell their products at miserable prices, who do not cover the costs of production or legumes, and who also endanger the continuity of 3,500 dairy farms in the country. In view of the seriousness of the facts and the demands of the opposition groups, it is never you who take the initiative to open a special non-permanent commission in order to carry out a package of urgent measures to save the farms. The first meeting takes place in February 2016, there are a few. And it must not be very productive this meeting as far as measures are concerned, because what is really unacceptable and outrageous is that industries in the country are importing milk and cream in a massive way, while deciding on the other hand to abandon collection routes in which they are operating, as for example in Orders and Santiago. How could the most milk-producing provinces of the state, which are La Coruña and Lugo, be the main importers of foreign milk? The council allows industries to exercise these kinds of trophies with total impunity, while they are imposed on our strong farms restrictions when it comes to producing and setting costs. The second meeting of the strengthening plan took place, if I am not mistaken, on April 8th, and finished this, the representative of the nanny expresses her concern at the intention of distribution of bids for milk to the bottom, and also at the inoperability of the council, which, in addition, through the mouth of her advisor, Angeles Vázquez, literally states "that Galicia is below the prices for the state average, with a situation to be cut." I don't know how they plan on doing it, nor when, and it encourages producers and trade unions in the sector to get to work in the organization of the sector. In other words, blame those affected as responsible. In the meantime, the glovers are waiting for the Joint Measures to guarantee the collection of production on all farms, with production regulation mechanisms which are not unilaterally imposed by each industry, on a European and state scale, and guaranteed fair prices for all farms, which prevent the relocation of production or increase of surpluses. Because distribution and industry are favoring a process of relocation of production, so they systematically promote the increase of production at quite higher prices in other parts of the state, while they give up collected in Galicia, or they impose prices in ruinous conditions on our farms, and which are policies of who governs, in defense of the privileges of those who have the most economic power,...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u231	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u232	...in the prejudice of the common people, who want to live on their work. The Joint Group will support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u233	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego has the floor to Mrs. Paz Franco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u234	Thank you, Madam President. The Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will also approve this initiative which its own author has qualified as modest. The truth is that in this Parliament about the dairy sector, and also about other matters, but in this particular we have already tried modest, more modest, modest initiatives multiplied by two, more ambitious, less ambitious, which go to the bottom, which address immediate issues, of all kinds, and I believe that imagination does not give us more than it does. Then Mrs. Garcia Pacín will come out here and say we never make proposals. But well, the case is that they're there. We are going to vote in favour, because of course what is unheard of is that seven months after an agreement was adopted which has been qualified as historical, both by the ministry and by the Galician Union, none of the measures contained in that agreement are now 100% in force. What's more, a side effect of that agreement that was sold to the winners who were going to advance the payment of the CAP's aid, even last week he announced the advisor who was going to deal with this month to 14 million euros of those CAP's aid. I mean, what everyone would interpret as an advance would be to charge the aid in November, or in December, as very late, in the end, the advance will consist of covering them two or three weeks before the end of the legal period, which as all of you know is in June, which has Galician Board to pay for those aids. And in the meantime, the dairy sector is still maturing, I'm sure it's the data I'm going to give you, it's a lie that the livestock get mobilized because they have something more than vice, they go out because they want to heat the sun, and so I'm sure all the data we're going to give them is a lie. Here we have said on many occasions that Galicia was losing weight in relation to the state's dairy sector, given systematically denied by the PP. As much as in Andalusia increased 16% of production and Galicia increased 5% of production, they kept saying it was a lie. But I'm going to give you a data today, Mrs. Garcia Pacín, to see if it's a lie or if it's true, I pulled it out of the Magram, so I hope it's true. Galicia in December 2015 – December, December – the Greek dairy sector represented 38.1% of state production. In December 2015. By the end of February 2016, in two months, it represents 37.5% of State production. Is he coming down or is he coming up? I just don't know anymore, equal to 37.5% is more than 38.1%. Mrs. García Pacín, is it a lie that Galician farms are being exploited in an alarming way? You can come with data from the Bipartite, we've already assumed them, but the truth is, in January, there were 9,079 farms in Galicia on January 1st. On February 1st there were only 9,044 left, and this rhythm is amazing. And then here comes the advisor to say nonsense like the ones he said in the last plenary session, or like the ones he said last week in a public act that what they're closing is small farms of 4 or 5 cows – that I still say to myself that someone tells me where such an exploitation is left in this country – and that they're inefficient, and above all we have to hear him say that he's going to do a study to see how it makes the Greek dairy farms as efficient as the Andalusias. They save the money from the study, paying them at 35 cents, as they pay them off, they're already efficient, because if they're capable of holding an average of 27 cents per litre, they're 35. If you're able to cope with today's more than 30% of Galicia's milk production if you're paying less than 25 cents, and most of the country's owners, what you call surpluses, that 20% of what they produce, you're paying less than 20 cents, at 18 cents, which is the price of intervention, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is still not necessary for you to take note and do something about the dairy sector?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u235	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u236	Is that chain-strengthening plan still the only solution for within four or five years? Are you aware that the situation is more serious every day? Are you aware that when spring comes, milk production will increase throughout the European Union and that distributors are already saying that milk will be lowered...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u237	Finish it, Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u238	...in the terminals of supermarkets? How do you and the Government of the State think about making our country's dairy sector have any chance of survival? Are you planning on doing something, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party? Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia. Mr. García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u240	Thank you, President. Well, we, of course, Mr Sánchez, are also going to vote in favour of this initiative. It will be to vote and it will be to initiatives, I think we have seen it from every point of view and we have analysed it in every way. The problem is we met the continuous front wall of the People's Party and the Government. When three years ago we told the then counselor and Mr. Feijóo that I, frankly – naive of myself – had not thought they had spent three years without taking any action at all. And we said that three years from there the quota system would disappear, and so we would have this problem on the table. And I -- I was naive of myself -- at least when I turned off the light at night in bed, I never thought we'd spent three years doing absolutely nothing, not even done it, not even this government. [[Murmurs.]] Then, too, when the day came, after three years, that the quota system had actually disappeared and, therefore, we had the problem on the table, I also told you that, in fact, we had to take action, which we should have taken three years ago, but now we were in the problem. And also I – naive of myself – didn't think we could spend a whole year after having the problem on the table without taking any action. It's true that I don't have that naivety anymore, and like St. Paul I fell off the horse, and I mean that I don't expect anything anymore, Mr. Sánchez, not even if the signature is fulfilled, not even if the laws are fulfilled. I believe today that three initiatives in this Parliament saying that if you follow a law, that is, my expectation is null and void. There have therefore been a year and fifteen days when the quota system has actually disappeared and we are dealing with the most serious problem in this sector in the last thirty years. I don't know how many years ago, they have absolutely nothing to do with it. As we have explained here, the problem is not so much the price – which is, and so much, very serious – determinant, but it is not albiscized under any point of view of any solution, which with another scenario, with the scenario of the quota system, we always had that system of protection, because beyond a time of conjunctory there was a massive entry of milk from other countries, those countries had limited their production, since they also had a quota; therefore, they were going to finish that, because they were subject to quota. By somehow removing this protection system, we have no element that makes us think that this is going to be solved. At the international market level, there is not a solution for the dairy market, that is, in international consumption there does not seem to be a breakthrough. The problem of the Russian veto doesn't seem to have any progress in the European Union to solve it, which could have gone through, and it was one of the added problems. And at European level there is no political decision either, and the other day it made it clear, or it became quite clear, at the ministers' meeting at European level, where he came to say to the Commissioner that each person is looking for life and that each country has, in some way, to seek his solution. So there is absolutely nothing – which is the incomprehensible of this Government – that is to say, no one will come to rescue us, which is what this Government has not just understood. This government has been living with holders, announcements, guarantees, sharing funds from those who don't put a hard one; that is, Mr. Feijóo shares the subsidies from the CAP as if he were the one who gave them, and the only thing that does, indeed, is to process them badly, the trail, putting all the difficulties and later than ever. By the way, what Mrs. Paz was saying, with an added problem that's going to have the winners this year, that's when they make the payment that they had to make last year's income if they're going to do this year. And if, as it will be, I haven't ruled Feijóo since October and there's a normal government, the CAP aid this year will be paid this year, so there will be a double revenue of CAP aid to the gamekeepers, with which they will be taxed. I mean, those are the managements Mr. Feijóo does, but we're sure he'll come out of Feijó saying he'll rule calmly, that it'll take the next year too, and so we'll save the problem. To great harm, great remedies, but, indeed, that's one of the added problems that comes from that announcement that he said he was going to put forward the CAP's aid, and it's the CAP that has been charged in recent years. And so we said that, indeed, no one will come to rescue us, and that this government hasn't just had a plan, it doesn't have a plan to strengthen us. I told the counselor that it would be a little plan and indeed it is not a little plan, they take two meetings and there is not a single written line, there is not a single document about what to work on, there is absolutely no plan – as the word says – to get out of this situation, and there is still waiting for someone to come to solve it. And surely at that summit of ministers where what we decided from the bottom was that, we're going to wait to see what happens by charging 34 or 35 cents, how export countries like France and Germany collect; because surely we can expect and, indeed, Europe has a problem and a global solution is sought: we have to wait as long as we spend this bad season. The problem is that Galicia can't wait, and the problem is that every day here our farms are closed, seven out of every ten they've closed in the last year are Germans. And, therefore, Feijóo has all the time in the world, surely France and Germany also have all the time in the world, because despite not being in a good time they're investing in such a way that they're loading the Greek producers and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u241	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u242	...so, they're winning market share, which is what interests the Spanish consumer market. And, therefore, everyone can wait, except for the moneywinners and not for the moneywinners. Everyone has time, Feijóo has time, the advisor has time and takes out four announcements, three promises and two meetings, and we're going to wait to see if this happens or spreads, as it is said in my village.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u243	Finish it, Mr. Garcia, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u244	The problem is, it won't go away. Of course, it's not the last initiative we've ever voted for, I hope the People's Party has rectified, because for a lot of people...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u245	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u246	...every day that happens is one day less than it's left, and they have very few lives in this sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u247	Thank you. For the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, Mrs García Pacín has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u248	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies. As usual, Mr. Biras, I think he'll abandon the milk debate, because these issues don't seem to interest him, or at least listen to the opinion of the parliamentary group... [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Mr. Beiras Torrado pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u249	They don't dialogue. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u250	Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u251	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u252	You qualify your initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u253	I'll call him in order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u254	Mr. Sánchez, you qualify your initiative...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u255	Quiet, Mr. Beers.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u256	...simile and little ambitious...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u257	If you want to withdraw from the Chamber, you will withdraw, but do not interrupt the debate, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u258	...as a minimum initiative, that the People's Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u259	Mrs. Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u260	...who supports the Government of the Union, can assume. I want to say no to you, we're going to reject you for some real-life justification. [[Murmurs.]] There are always multiple debates and time we have the parliamentary groups to expose the news in each of these debates. And you have an issue, and it is to blame the current Government of Galician Unity for the dairy crisis. And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that while you do not change that position, a weak favor is making the milk producers, because you do not bring to this House any new measures, no government alternatives, or even political strategies of your idea. Do you remember that at other times I've told you about sustainable decline? But it is not, either, because, Your Honor, on this initiative – dated in the autumn of last year, when they were already demanding a month from the signed agreement that had been carried out, if there were any relevant issues already – they had to change. Mr. Sánchez, do you think that with the approval of the three points you put, the dairy crisis is solved? It seems that, by the way, it is affecting Europe and the world in an important way, because we all know that there is an important imbalance between supply and demand. You speak of the ministry as having to comply with the terms of the dairy agreement itself, I believe that the heads of the council have informed you on time in the plenary and in the Commission that the agreements signed by the ministry – we speak here today of the order of assignment of prices and also in the regulation of the first buyers – are no longer mere drafts, they already have their processing in advance. And the Galician Council, and even our group, we are the most interested in pressuring the ministry to publish it. But, Lord of the Alternative Gaga de Left, gentlemen of the BNG, you in Madrid don't make a decision, little voice they have. [[Murmurs.]] If your political groups have little decision now in Madrid, if we look at the confluences of these groups we see that the important themes of your initiatives in Madrid are not milk. [[Murmurs.]] I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to look at the topics that matter to collectives like En Marea, because, ladies and gentlemen, socialists have been able to seek sanctions so that possible breaches of the agreement may be punished. And we thank the honourable Member in Congress very much for taking the picture here in Parliament and presenting it with you. But you also deny with that initiative that inspections are being carried out, that it is being sanctioned, and all the issues that have been crafted by the Council of Galicia and the Council of the Rural Environment. Because I'm able to demand compliance, and at the same time, as in your point number three, to take little ambition of your goals. Tell us, Mr. Sánchez, what are your alternatives? What are your measures? What are your group's news to mitigate the crisis in the dairy sector? And don't use demagogy, because the advisor has never blamed the crisis-producing sector, the counselor has always respected the mobilizations. The Counsellor is working from the first day of her taking possession here in Galicia, meeting with all the collectives, with all the entities, with all those who have called at the door of the council, moving to Madrid...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u261	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u262	...all your worries about the ministry – the agreement you demand on your initiative – a greater involvement of the ministry in the defense of the dairy sector. We're not an island in Asturias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u263	End, please, Mrs. Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u264	...they also close a similar percentage of farms that in Galicia, and in Andalusia, the OPLs work. [[Murmurs.]] And finally, Madam President, once again, asking for the organization of production, union. And I don't blame the producers... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u265	Thank you, Mrs. Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u266	...who are looking at their representatives and demanding responsibilities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u267	Thank you, Mrs. Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u268	I think we all have to work in the same direction, in the same direction, and diagnose who the enemy is.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u269	Thank you, Mrs. Pacín.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u270	And on this occasion the Administration is not, Mr. Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u271	Thank you, Mrs. García Pacín. [[Applause]] For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mr. Sánchez García has the floor, from his chair.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u272	Well, after a very dignified intervention by a parliamentary group that betrays the dairy sector and the country daily – shameful, outraged, nauseous speech, Mrs. García Pacín, nausea and indignation – I find it hard to keep my indignation at what you just said. Look, the first alternative we have for the dairy sector is not to betray it. The second alternative we have is not working for industry and distribution, which is how you're doing. The industry and distribution are no longer needed to defend themselves, the Counsellor, who at this moment needing defence is distribution and the industry, and that's why she criminalizes the owners: "in this moment of protest," that's the time. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You betray and work for certain interests, and that's why your plan is being fulfilled, and your plan is that you close the farms to give business to big businesses. [[Murmurs.]] Those are our alternatives, at least honesty, which you can't say, that's the first alternative. [[Murmurs.]] We have many alternatives here, more than you, many alternatives. You had to have done in this country for all the years that governed land management, right, so you could compete on equal terms with other landowners. They didn't, they failed, they compete in inequality of conditions. They had to make some industrial project and spend the public money on making some viable industrial project, and they gave them two friends, two friends, eight million euros in dairy food, among other things that you are able to do. Those are their alternatives, and they're still coming here to fuck the rest of us and what we're doing. [[Murmurs.]] Look, a lot more than you, they've approved a lot more of us than you do. And then tell me, do you think these three points will solve the milk problem? I'm not saying it, you said it in September. Because what we're asking is that we comply with the Ministry's agreement, that you said it was historic and that it was going to solve the problem. So you said that with these points, the dairy problem was solved. The problem is, you're not even fulfilling your signature in September. You are voting against compliance with the agreement in September, which has not even, not even, drafted a royal decree in seven months, not even that. That's what you can tell the gangsters. And yet, without doing you or your minimum duties, they're able to demand from the greedy when you're the ones who are betraying this sector on a daily basis. I think there's no remedy, we've already brought initiatives of all colors. There is no more remedy than, of course, to evict them from power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u273	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Juan Carlos González Santín and two other Members, on the demand by the Government of Galicia to the central government for the adoption of the measures necessary to maintain the sustainability of the social security system
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u274	There will be three amendments to this initiative: one from the Joint Group, one from the Group of the Galician Nationalist Block and one from the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u275	Mr. Santín has the floor to make a non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u276	Thank you, President. The social security system is, by definition, a public, solidarity and distribution system, which allows citizens to maintain their purchasing level when they cannot continue to work and therefore cannot enter their accounts. It's a public system because it's managed entirely by public officials, by officials who just do that. Specialized officials who, in addition, have to say that they are a reference point not only for Europe, but for Latin American countries and even for other parts of the world. It must also be said that it is a system of solidarity, because, although we are talking about a system of contributions, and therefore they would only have the right to receive these benefits from those who contributed, these are limited above, because the people who are most often quoted at the end, at the time of receiving a pension, are limited by some maximum ceilings, and therefore it is a system of solidarity; and below it is also limited by a few minimum ceilings, in such a way that those people who were not entitled to a pension that is considered worthy receive this amount of the minimums. It's also a distribution system, which is an intergenerational distribution. We're talking about a system that's not a system of capitalization, and that, therefore, what we do is that the people we're now working on pay off and pay the pensions of those who are now pensioners, hoping that future generations will pay our pensions in the future. In this, apart from being a system that contributes to the redistribution of income, one has to have a clear thing: it's a contributing system and therefore we have to get the system to be viable. The system's viability must be medium and long-term. There can of course be imbalances, occasional adjustments of one year, of two years, where contribution income is greater than or less than pension expenditure. If the contribution income is higher than the cost, we would generate savings; and if they were lower, because we would have an additional expense. For that reason, precisely for those points of disagreement, the Social Security Reserve Fund was created. We must all be clear that the Reserve Fund, whatever content it has, can never serve to balance a system that is not viable. It couldn't be faced with any set-aside, and that's where the problems arise. I've been looking at the latest data provided by Social Security, both of last year's liquidation and of this year's budgets. And we see that the Social Security Reserve Fund at the end of 2015 had 32,481 million euros, when four years earlier, on January 1, 2012, it was at 66,815 million euros. This fund suffers from a loss of 34.334 million euros, about 8.500 million euros a year. Created this fund to guarantee in conjunction situations the pensions we currently have, the pension payroll, which rises to more than 9.3 million pensions, makes us have to remove from this reserve fund. This reserve fund, for an idea to be made, in recent years it's what has ensured that the pensioners' extra payments, the June and December extra payments can be paid. Without this background, social security couldn't have dealt with these payments. In addition, over the past four years, this fund has withdrawn more than 34,000 million euros, specifically 47,201 million euros, 12,800 million euros more. Where did these funds come from? First, of the interests generated by the fund itself. And secondly, from the mutual prevention fund, from the contributions that the borrowers would make to the Reserve Fund in the event that it did not withdraw from that fund and had been diminished. We have to make it clear that from the Reserve Fund, as it is being managed, EUR 13.250 million has been withdrawn in the last year, that is, 57% more than the budgeted by the Ministry of Employment itself. This means that, if we followed this pace, the Social Security Fund would play a major role in 2018. I'm talking about data that's already confirmed, which has been removed from the Reserve Fund. I also want to make a note here, a precision, and that changes in social security are slow, you can't change one day at a time. For this exercise there is a forecast to withdraw, according to the Government, 6,300 million euros from the Reserve Fund, in 2016. I'm stuck with a very limited figure, I'm afraid it'll be higher. In addition, we have to say that the Social Security deficit – we commented today – is at 1.26%, when the budget was 0.6%. And what's going on with the future of the pension? The problem is a double problem. We have two effects: an income effect and a double substitution effect. The income effect is that the population is aging and therefore there are more pensions every day. So what you invest in pensions, what you pay in pensions, is getting bigger and bigger. But there's another problem, there's an effect of replacing these pensions. If he dies in a pensioner, he'll get a lower pension than the new pensioner who joins. So there's also an increase in the payment of pensions. And we have another problem, which is next to the quote. So far, with 2.7 or 2.6 affiliates, a pension was paid. The problem is that every day wages are lower and therefore contributions are lower. This ratio is no longer worth, wages are getting lower and we need more workers to pay a pensioner. The summary of all of this is that, if we do not take action, soon social security will go into deficit. For this year 2016 it foresees an increase in the pension system that can reach 2%. I have been collecting several data, the last ones were from the president of the Independent Tax Responsibility Authority, Airef, who said last Wednesday at the Congress of Deputies that the reserve fund – the so-called pension fund – is not enough to settle its deficit in the medium term. In other words: the President of the Independent Tax Responsibility Authority himself says the Reserve Fund will not arrive to pay the pensions of the future. It maintains in its report that by 2016 social security will not only meet the expected target of its deficit, which is 0.3%, but its imbalance will exceed that of this year – which was 1.26%, as you well know –, reaching, as I told you earlier, 2%. If these forecasts are true, which are not mine, I repeat, I am the president of Airef, this will mean that next year, only next year, there will be a breakthrough that will have to cover the pension fund of 20 billion euros. If these forecasts are certain – I repeat that they are not mine – it means that the Reserve Fund would not arrive to end the 2017 fiscal year. The problem, according to the institution, is the continuing lack of realism – and I read textually – in the budgets that the central government has drawn up. Airef places behind this balance some unbelievable contribution income. Thus, the Government budgeted for 2016 a collection by this route of EUR 117 billion, with an increase of 6.7%, data that I believe will not be able to fulfill. And why do I say this? Because the settlement of the year 2015, in which social security anticipated contributions to be EUR 100 billion, was diverted by 10%, it had 90,000, 10,000, minus; with which, in order to reach these 117,000, the growth that would have to have in quotes would not be 6.7%, it would be 16%, something that I really consider complicated. Besides, we have to add two factors to this. The first is that the Public Employment Service has violated the budget amount to Social Security. You know that Social Security pays unemployment benefits; therefore, you will have to forward this money if the money sent by the State does not come to you. The second, of course, is that there will be less income on this bottom because it is decreasing the background and generating less income. He also commented on Airef's president that solutions would have to be sought. He put a – I don't share it or I'm against it – there was, and I think, of course, this has to be done where it has to be done, in the Toledo Pact – which was to fund the system from public budgets. In any case, we'd be talking, if you do this, about a system change, because, as you know, there's a separation of funds from state and social security, as well as a single box. For all the above, what I think is that it is time to tackle seriously the problem that we have of Social Security before it strikes us. That is why we urge the Government of Greece to address the Government of Spain to take the necessary measures in order to maintain the sustainability of the social security system. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u277	Thank you, Mr. Santín. Intervention of parliamentary groups. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, you have the floor to Mrs Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u278	Thank you, President. We tabled an amendment to this non-law proposal, from which I will explain the reasons. I want to start with a little history first. Rajoy inherited Social Security in balance in 2011 and with 70,000 million in the pension fund, and leaves a hole of 15,000 million and the hut, to continue, will end in 2017. In 2015, Social Security entered 5,000 million less than in 2011, for the disastrous 2012 rescue and labour reform that resulted in wage deflation and job insecurity. According to INE, since Rajoy got to Moncloa, there are 350,000 less busy in equivalent full-time. According to data from the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, total unemployment benefit expenditure in February 2016 was 10% lower than the same month of 2015. If we follow the comparison, between February 2016 and February 2015 we can see that the highs processed were 12% lower in 2016 than in 2015, the beneficiaries decreased by 9.5%, the coverage of the unemployment protection system increased from 55.72% in February 2015 to 54.76% in February this year. The average monthly expenditure per beneficiary was EUR 808.4 in February of this year, which means 0,4 % less than in February of 2015. Employment policies based on subsidising social security contributions on the business side have only achieved bad results: 9 out of 10 contracts are temporary. This policy is ineffective, costly and causes an inscrutable burden of resources for the social security system, and a new transfer of income towards entrepreneurs, increasing the backward distribution of income that has been produced since 2012, as capital in tax havens increases. Between 2011 and 2014 the contribution income dropped €6 billion. By 2016 a cost is budgeted for the State, between quotas, subsidies and subsidies to Social Security, of EUR 2.245 million, of which half, 1.650, are intended exclusively to finance employment promotion measures, employment recruitment, or the same, the corporate share of Social Security. There is a broad consensus among experts on the ineffectiveness of recruitment bonuses, because they say these contracts would have done the same without bonuses. The European Union-wide line seeks to reduce the effect on pension spending on the growth of life expectancy. These reforms have been in progressive implementation since 2013 which significantly moderate the future trend of expenditure. Thus, retirement age was delayed at 67 years, the calculation of the regulatory basis for determining the pension increased from an average of the last 15 years to an average of the last 25 years. A hundred percent of the regulatory base before it reached 35 years, now we have to wait for 37. The pension calculation will apply the sustainability factor, that is, life expectancy, which will result in a reduction in the amount of benefit and which will affect very deeply, above all, women for having a higher life expectancy and lower wages. Early retirements are penalized, the maintenance of active life is intensified from retirement age, and practically in the last quarter pensions have not been updated. In short, major reforms are being implemented in the area of expenditure, even at the risk of increasing poverty in old age. In this sense, the fight against tax fraud needs to be reinforced. It takes time and I'm going to defend the amendment directly, and tell them that, a little bit added to this, to start with, we don't know who's going to rule in Madrid. And to say that the Government of Madrid decides how it will make the system sustainable can be by reducing the counties of pensions. So I can't give a positive vote on this initiative as drafted, so we are presenting this amendment, which talks about negotiation with trade unions and employers' organizations but does not refer to the Toledo Pact, because in this state there are more representative unions, such as the nationalist unions of the autonomous communities, who have the right to think and contribute to these meetings...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u279	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u280	...about how they affect their communities, their nations, these measures. We will therefore only vote in favour if the amendment is accepted. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u281	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado Cores.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u282	The debate on the sustainability of the social security system comes from a distance, and will allow me to be the author of the initiative that disagrees with it in which it is a problem of lack of realism in forecasts. I wish it was just a problem of lack of foresight. The problem is that this situation is a result of political decisions, transformed then into legislative decisions, which have as their objective that the pension fund also becomes a market niche for that devouring capital. With which we are faced with a case-by-case policy debate, we are faced with a debate because of ideology and what model of Social Security, what model of pensions, what model of benefits is defended, whether a public model based on the distribution of wealth or another model. And I say that the debate on the sustainability of the social security system comes from a long distance, comes from a long way, and at the beginning of the 1990s the debate on reform of the pension system dominated by the theories, driven and encouraged by the World Bank, by the International Monetary Fund, by the OECD, and supported this speech in the applied structural adjustment plans that defend strong cuts in public pension systems, accompanied by individual capitalization through the private sector. The aim is to privatize pensions, which enables financial capital to manage large-scale savings through private pension funds for global financial markets. The goal is to have a more pooling of resources based on disposing of these resources to a social majority. Capital wants to occupy the space of a social right, won by the working class, of having a public pension system. These entities, the World Bank, the IMF, are forecasting the breakdown of pension funds, public pensions, in Europe, in the Spanish state, and always those panic drums are accompanied by an increase in the private pension contract by more people. The reason, first, is to cut down the State, the argument that by this way you cannot go and then transfer to the private system the management of an important volume of capital. It is launched simultaneously by these institutions and also by the financial institutions, those financial entities that make available to governments those groups of experts that make these ad hoc reports where this theoretical problem of the breakdown of the pension system is supported. And the central argument is also that life expectancy increases progressively, that there are fewer contributors and more people receiving benefits, with which this imbalance is evident. Nor is it strange that this speech has emerged for a few years now. In times of crisis it is easier for people to accept these speeches that there is a problem and that they accept the measures that are being implemented. We have a population with a more limited reaction capacity, with a lot of unemployment, very indebted and frightened to the future. Which is to understand that assumption of this speech. That is why the BNG also tabled an amendment in which we ask that, for this guarantee of the pension fund, it begin with the replenishment of the amounts deducted from the Reserve Fund, because the People's Party entered the bag into that reserve fund, that fund created under the speech actually described here by the amendment's deputy author, so that in times of difficulty it would serve as a mattress. But the People's Party went into that reserve fund by attracting, in 2012, 7 billion, in 2013, 11,000 million...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u283	Finish, please, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u284	...in 2014, 15,000 million, and leaving the bottom in a situation of difficulty. And then the other part of the amendment is the derogation from labour reforms, because, in fact, there's a decrease in income due to the enormous unemployment in which we are, politics...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u285	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u286	...–reduced already– wage devaluation, reductions in contributions, with which, in fact, that discourse of the risk of the pension fund is soon evaluated with measures that want to lead us to actually...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u287	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u288	...this is the only way. We in the BNG argue that workers and workers cover more, have wages that allow them to contribute in conditions...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u289	Thank you, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u290	...and that future retirements are guaranteed with such wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u291	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the People's Parliamentary Group of Galicia, Mrs. Romero Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u292	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon to all and to all. A very similar initiative has already been discussed a little less than a month ago at the Congress of Deputies, which is where the powers are. In fact, this initiative urges the Government of Spain. I suppose, therefore, that the object of this initiative that – I repeat – has already been discussed less than a month ago is to compare management and try to question the management of the People's Party. Ladies and gentlemen, it should be recalled that in 1996, when the People's Party began to govern, it had to ask for a loan in order to pay extra payments to pensioners because socialists left a deficit in pensions of 500,000 million of the old pesetas. He did it in 1996 and did it again in 2011. Every time they rule, they leave the pension box in deficit. Although the PSOE announced year after year that the Social Security registers surplus, the system recorded a structural deficit of more than 7,700 million euros in the years 2010 and 2011, a deficit that was not advertised by the last socialist government, which in these two exercises had to resort to the reserves of the system. Well, it's true that not in a transparent and measured way, as you're doing now, informing each of the reserve fund layouts. Even so in the years 2008 and 2009 they diverted other surplus shares that had to be entered into the Social Security Reserve Fund, removing EUR 15,000 million from the back door from the social contributions to make other policies, EUR 15,000 million that were diverted to cover other public benefits that had to be covered by the state's general budget and not by workers' contributions, a scandal, gentlemen. A scandal because it was precisely that same government that led to the biggest cut to pensioners in this country's modern history of Spain, a scandal because those money did not pay them the pensions as it was their duty, but they chose to freeze them by showing obvious disloyalty to pensioners. The Reserve Background was not born to be capitalized, it was born to be used when problems arise. It was created in 2000 precisely because of the deficit generated by the socialists in 1996, in accordance with recommendation No. 2 of the Toledo Pact, so that in times of economic crisis and therefore of low recovery the financial balance is guaranteed and the pension can be paid. This is its function, it's for what was created and what is being used, for the timely, accurate and concrete payment of all pensions. This reserve fund is giving pensioners the moment they need it the most, because pensioners are the support of many families who have suffered and suffer the consequences of a minimalized economic crisis and even ignored by those who today criticize the policies of government that are taking us out of them. The pensioners will be worse if they freeze their pension if they get paid, worse if they lose their purchasing power than they gain purchasing power. And thanks to the revaluation rate approved by the People's Party, this is never going to happen again, and this index also assumes that pensions will never be frozen again. And, of course, they'll be better off if they create jobs and they don't create unemployment. We're better today than four years ago. Creating employment is the basis for the support of the public pension system, it is the most important social policy. It is true that the imbalance between contributors and beneficiaries of the system is a common characteristic in many autonomous communities in our country as a result of the destruction of employment and the demographic crisis. That is why the People's Parliamentary Group believes that for the system to be viable in the medium and long term this work must be done within the Toledo Pact, which is what has been created. And it must continue on the path of reforms so that the system is solid and is guaranteed in future generations as well. All reforms carried out in this regard by the People's Party were following the recommendations of the Toledo Pact: the Law of Mutuals, the factor of sustainability, the rate of revaluation, the complement of maternity. And in this sense goes our amendment, Mr. Santín, which says that these works are being carried out to agree on new measures to maintain adequate, sufficient pensions within a viable public pension system based on the principles of contribution, equity and intergenerational solidarity; principles to which you refer in your explanatory statement but which does not reflect on the resolution and to which we also agree. So I think you can accept this amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u293	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Santín... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Sorry, Mr. Fajardo. Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u294	A couple of questions – before entering to value what the Socialist Party has to say – about the intervention of the spokesperson of the People's Party, because he said a series of inaccuracies that cannot be kept as absolute truths because they are false and they are lies. The first is that the sustainability factor will ensure that pensions will never be frozen. That's a lie, that's the opposite. The only thing that guarantees that factor is that anyone from now on won't know what their pension will be on the day they retire, and, in any case, what they guarantee is that they'll be smaller than what they'd have before they approved that sustainability factor. That's a reality, pension reduction. To say another thing, today the situation is better than three years ago is another fallacy, because today everyone needs more years of contributions to retire, so he needs to get to 67 years of retirement and therefore the objective retirement conditions are worse. And what's already a coat of hair is that you tell me here that the PP all pension reforms made them within the Toledo Pact. Lies, absolutely lies. The last pension reform that increased the retirement age, the number of years to be paid and, above all, the theme of the sustainability factor was not supported by most of the signatories to the Toledo Pact. So it's good that you come here and say some things, but you have to say certain things. And all that's said is lies, falsehood and the opposite of reality. You're liquidating the public pension system because it's your goal. They don't believe in him and believe in other things: who can have a pension that pays it; and who can't, who can't, who can't, and who can't, and who can't give it to the State, which is what we think of by progressive and left-wing organizations. Another thing is the approach that the Socialist Party puts on the table. We, of course, cannot support an initiative that says that we take the necessary measures to ensure the sustainability of social security. Why are they? Because that same preamble, that same definition, is what the People's Party did to make cuts for pensions. So if what I'm told is that measures have to do with increasing the contribution bases, allowing people to buy more money in their salaries, with which they access retirement pensions more easily, and if, in addition, there are measures to encourage the control of quote fraud, as we all know, in those contracts that are supposed to be part-time, but they end up being full-time and nobody controls that issue, we talk about those issues. Because we also need to remind the People's Party that, for example, it has put a brutal axe to widower's pensions, that in this country they are very important and that they support a lot of families, and that they have been severely cut off by the People's Party. So we defend the sustainability of pensions but in a credible way in order to give content and guarantee people a pension worthy of retirement. Today there are many poor pensioners who come to the social eaters to be able to stay, because their pension doesn't even give them to stay in decent conditions. That's how -- and the PP spokesperson said we were in better conditions -- it turns out that last year the average pension in this country has been reduced to a very important amount. What the People's Party has to do, for example, is eliminate the maximum premiums and be able to comply with the rule regarding fraud, which in particular makes large companies deal with social security contributions. And, of course, what we say is that the pension problem doesn't even have to do with the pension fund, it has to do with what the state debt is to be saved with the pension reserve fund. And, above all, it is the state that ultimately responds to the debt of social security; therefore, we want it as a strong state that defends social rights and, among them, a social right as is the right to pension. So there's no need to be afraid that in extraordinary situations you can turn to another type of funding to maintain the public pension system and not continue with that drive to scare people into their bodies so they can go to private plans. Every time our public system is questioned, the next day, the shareholders of private pension systems rub their hands, who know that the next day they have at their door a lot of people trying to hire a private system. So we deeply regret, apparently, that the two great parties do not believe in this model. We believe in it and believe, moreover, that new financing measures must be put together to allow one of the fundamental pillars of the welfare state, which are pensions, to stay in time and in the situation that today people of my generation to the worst have not guaranteed that when we retire we can get a decent pension. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u295	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Now if the author of the non-law proposition has the floor, Mr. Santino.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u296	Yes. Thank you, President. Very briefly too. When I took the initiative, I tried to put it in a non-aggressive way for no one to be able to approve. All that was intended with this initiative was to draw attention to what is happening with the social security system. Of course, at the initiative you can put on a lot of things, Mr. Fajardo. You can put what we want you to do, you can put what we want you to do not do, but in the end I was trying to put the point in the problem, which is the sustainability of the system. I started my intervention, I don't know if they remember, saying it was a public system. And I'm what I want, a public system, I've always fought for a public social security system. I think, as was also said in some other intervention, that the moment the public system fails is when they do August, so to speak, private plans, banks and other entities. So what we have to do is preserve that public system. And to preserve it, we can't close our eyes to the reality we're having. I made them a data relationship. I also tried not to make any valuations, I took data, and more when the data says blacker came from the Fiscal Responsibility Authority, I said where they came from, and that data is there. What we can't do is close our eyes. So I think there's a problem coming up on us. I don't want to give the alarm's voice much less, it's not about alarming or much less. It's about putting on the measures when you have to. Obviously, you know that all changes in the social security system are due or have to be made through the Toledo Pact. I would never go against that. And I'll get into the amendments. I'm going to tell you that for there to be no problem with any of the groups, I'm not going to accept any of the three, so you'll have to decide whether or not to support it. But what I would like to do is give the reasons why I'm not going to support them. As for those of the Joint Group, I want to tell you that with regard to collective bargaining, the most representative trade unions are in the Toledo Pact. I do not think it is up to this Parliament to say what unions are or are not more representative. And with regard to the second part, which says here that recruitment grants are eliminated, I believe that of course one of the things that fosters and increases social security are the benefits of the social security system, with which we cannot accept this amendment. With regard to the amendment of the BNG, I would like, Mrs Prado, of course, to reject the amounts deducted from the Reserve Fund. I don't know how you'll be able to do that. And I fully agree with you, too, that there must be a job reform so that there will be quality jobs and that contributions will cover pensions. And finally, I want to tell the People's Party that you, as always, keep pushing, keep working, and keep doing what they always do: they say they do but then reality is different. I'm not going to come in to appreciate what you told me today that we're better than four years ago, I've already given you the data, it's objective data taken from the Ministry of Employment, which is not suspected of being socialist. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-04-12-DSPG148.u297	Thank you, Mr. Santín. We'll stop the session until tomorrow at ten in the morning. Thank you.
