ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u1	Go take your seats, please. Let's restart the session. Thank you. Good morning to all of you. We resume the session with the sixth item on the agenda, which corresponds to questions for oral reply by the President of the Union. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da Ana Belén Pontón Mondelo, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons of the Government of Greece not to meet the demands of the educational community in relation to the revalites and the LOMCE
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u2	You have the floor to Mrs. Pontón Mondelo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Galician Public Education Defense Platform, Mr. Feijóo. Fifteen days ago a boy from Becerreá spent two hours alone, isolated, in a classroom at his school. Two hours in which this child was not allowed to do anything, nor can he even read a book. Because of this punishment? Empty the exam of the revalides. It is a case of psychological persecution, of harassment, of which you are ultimately responsible, Mr Feijóo. And it's not an isolated case, it's all a symptom of authoritarianism and lack of pedagogic sense of government. Today, the Galego Nationalist Block wants to thank mothers and parents, teachers and teachers who do what you are unable to do: defend a public education, face-to-face with a quality and democratic education, because they know that what is at stake is the future and education of their children. That spirit has to be in the Presidency of the Union, not you. But fortunately October is around the corner, and, Mr. Feijóo, you will not approve the revald [[Applause]] Look, in defending public education, whether it's in favor or against, and I'm going to tell you which side you are on. You, while families decide to defend public and democratic education, stand aside from the barbarism of LOMCE. The educational community defends public, Greek and inclusive education. You're on the hook with Mr. Rajoy and Mr. Wert, defending a privatized, old-fashioned and elite education; an education for those who can pay. The truth is, today is a time to remember and remember. To remind Mr Feijóo that he was vehemently defending the right of families to be able to decide on the education of their sons and daughters, and today what he does is criminalize mothers and parents who are defending to say no to LOMCE and not to some unjust and useless revals. If I may give the advice, Mr. Feijóo, I think I should listen a little more to the educational community. In the 15-day revals, 80 percent of the student didn't do those tests. Yesterday, Gallica again stood at the head of the state in opposition to these revals. You have a golden opportunity to apologize and to rectify. For once, let go of partisan interests and defend the right to education of the children and children of this country. For once, he acts as president of the board and defends our competences in education. For once, Mr Feijóo, do your work and remember that you have an obligation to defend the competences and self-government of this country and that you have an obligation to defend what the educational community is demanding: a public, Greek, democratic and quality education. You know that LOMCE's application was a real improvisation and desatin.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u4	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u5	He knows that revalids don't contribute anything to the education of our children and our children. You know, in addition, that the revalids pose an offense to the professor and a waste of public money. Mr. Feijó, don't be an illustration despot. Listen and rectify, act for once, even if it's the minute of extension, as president of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, we will continue to defend public health; we will continue to improve public education; we will continue to have more teachers per student than in the rest of Spain; we will continue to have more public dining places than in the rest of Spain; we will have more languages in classrooms with that trilinguism. We improve school dropout, because now there are more children who follow their studies. We have increased 50 percent of the vocational training markets and we have the most affordable and affordable university rates in Spain. That's why, Your Honor, we're going to continue to improve public education, you have no doubt. [[Applause]] It's funny, Your Honor, that they're alarming themselves for the alleged outcry in the face of the checks carried out in Spain in the last few weeks; a supposed cheer encouraged, of course, by yourselves. I have nothing to object to families who voluntarily decide that their children do not go to a voluntary test; nothing to object. [[Laughter]] What is more difficult for me to accept in this House is an approach based on a lack of truth. Mrs. Pontón, it's a real mistake to say that this control is mandatory for children. It's really a mistake to say that this control is an exam. It's a real mistake to say that, on the basis of the controls that have just been carried out, there will be a ranking of centers within public teaching. And it is a mistake to really say that this control that has just been carried out is part of the note of the children and the children who voluntarily agree to carry it out. That's why, Your Honor, I don't think that's good. It's not good to deceive people; it's not good to ideologicalize classes; it's not good to make politics with children and children; it's not good to make political proselytism in classes. It's not good, Your Honor, because that has nothing to do with freedom, nothing has to do with the formation of the children and the girls who will replace us. [[Murmurs.]] And it's not good, either, of course, to lie about the theme of participation percentages. Ninety percent of the centers went to do these checks. 90% of the centers and 60% of the students. [[Protests.]] Yes, ladies. I understand that one thing is what you say and another is reality. Look, Your Honor, these evidences you know as well as I do that are collected in a law, and you ask me, as president of a democratic government, to violate the laws. And ask me, in addition, to the House where we approve the laws. [[Murmurs.]] Since they are not approved here, Your Honor, it turns out that when they are approved in the Courts they must be breached. Is that the proposal of the electoral program of the Nationalist Block Galego: to violate the laws passed in the General Courts? Within a very short time, Your Honor, you will be unable to comply with the laws passed in the Greek Parliament. But that's it, you guys! We are democrats, we believe that the laws, if we do not agree, have to be modified. And you, from what I see, confuse the defense of legitimate differences in teaching with the constant strategy of boycott and confrontation in teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u8	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u9	Look, Your Honor, we would certainly like to reach agreements in teaching, because that's good for the future of Galicia. But don't count on me to call insubmission, to disregard the laws. And of course, Your Honor, don't count on me to lie to the Greek families, because no one can lie to the Greek families, and much less a Member. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u11	Mr. Nañez Fejoo, the truth is, you can put yourself as you like, you can do the dialectic pirouettes you want, even if you want you can make us here a striptease, but the reality is what it is. And the reality is that in this country there is a cry, there is a social majority that has been expressed with force and that has said no to the revalids and not to the LOMCE; a LOMCE that the People's Party has not negotiated with anyone. And you have to listen, for example, to the Galician School Council, and the Galician School Council said no to LOMCE and not to the revals. [[Applause]] Why would you rather listen to Rajoy and not to the Welsh educational community, Mr. Feijóo? Why? Because your duty, Mr. Feijóo, is also to defend the powers. And what's a shame is that we have a Greek government that, while they're invading our skills in education, and also if you're doing with a retrograde, elitist law, which goes against the right to education for children, you cross your arms. And even they have the undoubtedness to say things like your education advisor said: that the revalids were just to know what the educational needs of the centers were. How do you not know what the educational needs of the centers are? At the beginning of the course, 200 centers asked for a professor, and what they had was not in response to his counsellorship, his government, Mr. Feijóo. [[Applause]] You've cut in media, cut in education, you're painting one of the pillars of the welfare state as the defense of public education, and you're violating a fundamental right that is above most and of any law that you approve in Parliament. LOMCE is a dead law. LOMCE is a retrograde law. LOMCE is a law that goes against the German self-government and the right that we have to have a public, democratic and quality education in Greek. I'm sorry, Mr. Feijóo, that you always stand face-to-face with problems, always submit to the sayings of Rajoy and Madrid and never listen, ever!, what the Greeks and the Greeks tell you. Of course, Mr. Feijóo, you in October will not pass the revalide.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Lockdown, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u13	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I am grateful to you for encouraging me to pass the democratic revolution of October. I appreciate it because I'm going to prepare it well, we're going to examine ourselves democratically, and we're going to see what the parents and mothers from all over Galicia say, Your Honor. [[Laughter]] It's true that you've never approved the revalid, so I'm not surprised that you're against it until you can take control in Galician public classes. Look, Your Honor, it says that reality prevails. That's right. In Denmark, Malta, the United Kingdom, Norway, Belgium, Cyprus, Slovakia, Germany, Ireland, France, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Norway and Portugal, there are controls and revamps. Do you think all Europe is wrong and you're right, Your Honor? Do you think that all Europe does is go against public teaching, Your Honor? You're talking about screaming. Look, Your Honor, yesterday I got the picture where you took part in that cry. You were in front of San Caetano. Was this the BNG's cry against these evidences, Your Honor? But it was 15, Your Honor! [[Laughter]] That was the cry you were making? [[Applause]] Your Honor, you have to have a little more respect for the children and the children who voluntarily agree to do the checks in the classrooms. Your Honor, you said something we cannot accept. Look, Galicia is the autonomous community with more teachers per student. You, as a nationalist, should be proud of that fact. You, as a nationalist, should celebrate that in Galicia we have more teachers and teachers per student than in the rest of Spain, and that is why, instead of criticizing public teaching, you should defend it, because those we study in public teaching will continue to defend public teaching say what the ideological approaches of Greek nationalism say. [[Applause]] Say, whatever, Your Honor, yes, yes. And if we have more dining places than at the time of economic kindness, when you rule, we have to celebrate. And if we have the best PISA results, better than in Spain and better than in OECD, except in mathematics, that we draw, we should celebrate. And if we have less school dropout than when you were in government, we should celebrate. And if we have the cheapest university fees in Spain, which means 100 million euros of savings to those families that you want to use and I want to protect, we must celebrate. So, Your Honor, nationalism has the terrible need to indoctrinate the whole educational area permanently. And in the face of his vice to make ideology in the classrooms, it's the virtue of filling them with knowledge, filling them with freedom and filling them with decisions to be able to make that decision that is deemed appropriate outside the classrooms. Look, Your Honor, I am the president of all the Greeks and the Greeks; of the families – most of them – who have decided to send their sons and daughters to take control of them, and of those who have not sent them. I know you'd want me to be a president under your terms, but I'm not, Your Honor. I believe in freedom and I believe that the bad calls revalid, because they were controls, they weren't tests...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u14	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u15	...they weren't proof of overcoming or evidence to make rankings in schools, like you're interested in mind. [[Murmurs.]] That's why, Your Honor... yes, Your Honor, you said so... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u16	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u17	...and there are a number of ANPAs who believe that if their children would do the test and not pass it, they would suspend it. That's why most of those who didn't send her actually thought that was true. [[Murmurs.]] [[Murmurs.]] Look, Your Honor, I'm telling you frankly...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u18	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u19	We'll keep trying to inform the families well. And – I want to reiterate – the only proposal and the only objective that the education policy of the Union has is to improve the public education system. I can't tell you that it's easier: the only policy of the Education Council and the only policy of the Greek Government is to improve the public education system in Galicia, the freedom of students and students...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u21	...and the freedom of their parents. Nothing else. Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Ask Mr. President of the Galician Council of Da María Consuelo Martínez García of the G.P. Mixed, on the demand of the Government of Greece to the Central Government in relation to the decision of the Government of Morocco concerning the delegation of Greece which traveled to that country
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u23	Question by Mrs Consuelo Martínez García, of the Joint Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u24	Good morning to all and to all. Good morning, President. Until 1975, the people of Sahara had DNI and Spanish passports. On November 6, 1975, Morocco organizes the so-called "Green March", with the sending of 300,000 civilians forced to enter the Sahara and colonize it. Eight days later, on November 14, Madrid's agreements were signed between Spain, Morocco and Mauritania, so Madrid handed over the territory – not sovereignty – to an administration made up of the three executives. On January 19, 1976, the Tifariti refugee camp in eastern Western Sahara was attacked by Moroccan fighters. On February 26, the Spanish troops left Sahara, matching the proclamation of the Democratic Sahara Arab Republic, and while Morocco and Mauritania agreed to divide the territory. After the abandonment of Spain, several Saharan refugee settlements fleeing the occupation and Moroccan repression were bombarded with napalm and fragmented bombs and white phosphorus. Then there would come a long war between the Frente Polisario and the armies of Mauritius and Morocco, before the passivity of the Spanish state. The consequences of the conflict were the occupation of Western Sahara by Morocco and exile, in the refugee camps of Tinduf, of more than 150,000 Saharans, in a conflict that has already lasted for more than 40 years. In 1979, Mauritaria renounced her claim in Sahara, but Morocco intends to remain in the territory. Western Sahara is now in the UN as one of the 17 Non-Self-Governing Territories under the supervision of the Special Committee on Decolonization. Since 1991, Minnesota has been seeking to hold this self-determination referendum, which is less favourable to the Saharawi people every day in the face of the increase in Moroccan settlers in the territory. In March, in an indecent challenge to the UN Security Council and Spain, the 84 civilian members of Minors were expelled from El Aaiún in response to statements by the United Nations Secretary-General on the presence of Morocco in Western Sahara as an unacceptable occupation to be put to an end. In the face of allegations by human rights organizations of the disappearance of persons, tortures, kidnappings and immense judgments against the Saharan population in the occupied territories, the Intergroup Peace and Freedom for the Saharan People of the Parliament of Galicia, with SOGAP and two journalists, we form a delegation with the aim of making a visit to Western Sahara. The Moroccan Government did not allow the delegation to enter Western Sahara, and proceeded to expel us, as it has done with 120 other people, members of parliamentary delegations, jurists, NGOs and journalists from different countries. The German Parliament stated that it was limited to financing the travel of the honourable Members and Members and to notify the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as if it had been a vacation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs only warned Thursday that it was possible for the Moroccan Government to prevent entry. In the face of this lack of action by the state and Parliament before the Moroccan Government, we wonder whether you will also be subjected to the Moroccan Government or will act to defend the institutional dignity of the MEPs and the Germans and the right of the people of Greece to move freely within the Moroccan territory and within the Saharawi territory. What are you going to do with the Moroccan Government?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, let me make it clear what is the position – I hope it unites – about what happens in Western Sahara and how we have been addressing it, for years now, from Galicia. You may be surprised, Your Honor, but I reiterate that this attitude of Galicia, of the Government, of Parliament and of the people, is a position from absolute prudence. And I say this, Your Honor, because the important thing, the main objective, is to be useful in helping the Saharan people. Unfortunately, this Parliament is not in the hands of Parliament to resolve the Sahara conflict, but it is in the hands – partly – of this Parliament to support the people who are suffering from the consequences that you reported. This is what we've been doing for years, Your Honor, and we're still doing it. By the way, with unanimity that I hope you share. Ladies and gentlemen, you should know – I am sure you know – that this is not the first time that we are not allowed free access to the Sahara. It happened in 2006: MEPs and Gallagas were unable to enter Sahara. As you will recall, in 2006 there was another Government in Spain. These are not – of course, you have been one of the delegation’s honourable Members – pleasant episodes, but they must not cause us to lose the prospect of a conflict, an international problem, which has been living with the international community for decades. Since Junta, of course, what we regret is that situation, but what we regret even more is the situation in which so many children and children from Western Sahara and the Saharawi people are. Your Honor, the commitment of all Galicia is the commitment of the Greek Parliament and the commitment of the Greek Government. The population of the Saharan camps remains a priority in all cooperation plans made by this Government and also by the previous Government. Since June we have spent years in providing humanitarian assistance to Saharan refugee camps, both food aid and medical and medical supplies, as well as medical commissions. You will remember that in December 2014 the vice president of the Union himself went to the Saharan refugee camps in Tinduf, successfully; we were in the territory of Algeria. And the commitments of the German Government reflect the commitments of this Parliament. This is why this Parliament unanimously approves the institutional statements, approved to travel to El Aaiún in 2014 – and it was one of the most important delegations in Spain – we attended intergroup conferences, and, of course, we held here in Galicia the 20th meeting of parliamentary intergroups Peace for the Sahara, in Santiago de Compostela, in March 2016. Members of eleven autonomous chambers met here, in Santiago, under the Italian Parliament organizing it. And that's why, Your Honor, for all of this, the people who are there doing humanitarian aid transfer a letter to the President of the Union, after the failed attempt to enter the last delegation of parliamentarians, as happened in 2006. A letter from the Welsh solidarity of the people of Saharanu to the President of the Union thanking the Council for what it is doing in Galicia, commending it for what we are doing, and I believe, Your Honor, that you know as well as me to solve a problem in the Greek Parliament, which has been doing for decades now in the UN, is something more than a statement of intent.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u27	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u28	We can share the declarations of intentions, but on creating cracks in Parliament's position, in the position of the Greek society and in the position of the Government in relation to Western Sahara, on those cracks and those divisions to us will not find us. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u30	Mr. President, prudence is very good, but the Saharawi people need something more than prudence. The Saharan people are suffering torture, they are suffering hunger and they are suffering repression, and before that there can be no passivity. Resolution 2261 of the U.N. Legal Department, recalls that for legal purposes Spain is the administering power of the territory. So the responsibility of the Spanish State goes far beyond solidarity; it goes far beyond humanitarian aid. Spain has an obligation to demand that this referendum be held. He has an obligation to demand that the Minurso office in Western Sahara be reopened in Aaiún. He has an obligation to safeguard the rights of the Saharawi people; that was his commitment which he failed to fulfil. It's not worth humanitarian help. You know as well as I do that every time there is less humanitarian aid to camps. You know as well as I do what the Saharawi people are suffering right now. So we're not saying that we don't continue with that cooperation, that we don't continue to work in solidarity with the Sahara. What you're saying is that commitment has to be much bigger. We cannot act like the rest of the world because this state has a much greater responsibility. That is why I believe that the Government of Galicia must take a step further, firstly, to reprove the attitude of the Government of Aiún by making it impossible for Members of this Parliament to have access to Aaiún. But this government should also address the Government of the State to install it as a administering power, demanding from Morocco respect for the human rights of the Saharan people in the occupied territories of Western Sahara, and to facilitate the work of Minorso for the celebration of the referendum on self-determination. Are you willing to require the Spanish State to fulfil its obligations to the people of Saharan Africa and to fulfil its commitment to the people of Spain?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Shut up. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, Spain – as you know – supports a just, lasting and mutually acceptable political solution that enables the self-determination of the people of Western Sahara within the framework of the principles of the United Nations. And you know very well that Spain maintains its support for the central role of the UN Secretary General's efforts and his personal envoy in seeking a solution to the question of Western Sahara. Your Honor, with regard to human rights, you also know that Spain has a gradual and progressive approach that generates consensus on the UN Security Council, which is where the issues are decided. That's why I ask you to be careful, because with any comment may happen what happened in March 2016, when Morocco ordered the withdrawal of its staff just on the mission you are talking about, in Minorus, on the United Nations mission to the Western Sahara referendum. When the Secretary-General of the United Nations spoke of occupation, Morocco automatically became disillusioned and abandoned that mission. That's why Ban ki moon, Your Honor, is setting up a policy that I think all Western states... we must continue. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There you are, Your Honor, what your proposals are. I say that, before you were a parliamentary officer, we were already working in the House; and probably, when you stop being a parliamentary member and I, too, we will continue to work, if we don't get a proper solution first. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Look, Your Honor, you are concerned about the dignity of Members and Members who were unable to come in on May 13, too. What happens is that I am more concerned about the dignity of the Saharawi people, as has been happening for decades, and so, Your Honor, I am trying to defend that dignity. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] [[Applause]] Your Honor, you should be more respectful of the dignity of those who believe to defend. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, we have been warned by the Spanish Government of the risk that this delegation could not enter, and our proposal was to keep the delegation. We could do what the vice president of Andalusia did, who, warning he couldn't get in, didn't. By the way, from United Left. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, of the United Left. And that's why we don't accept either the Socialist Party or the BNG lessons on commitment to Western Sahara, Your Honor. We're not going to accept it. [[Applause]] Because we fully agree with the dignity of the people of Western Sahara. [[Applause]] And that's why, Your Honor, what we're trying to do and what we're going to keep trying is to dedicate most of our cooperation aid to Western Sahara, and what we're going to keep trying is that families who want to bring Saharawi children can have them in Galicia with all their health cards and all their rights, as if they were Spaniards and full-time Welshers. [[Applause]] And that's why, Your Honor, what we're going to do, and why we're going to keep working, is for the public employees in Galicia who want to stay in the Sahara within the cooperation programs of the Galician Union, to have a permit, but not a permit, but a remunerated permit. Your Honor, I don't think you're being fair either to the Government or to Parliament or to the Greek society. [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u33	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u34	Nothing else and thank you very much. [[Applause]] Ask Mr. President of the Board of D. José Luis Méndez Romeou, of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the image of the Government of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u35	Question by Mr José Luis Méndez Romeu, spokesperson for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u36	It was to announce elections and open the tap of grants. Since it will not be possible to balance them before voting, you can speak as much as you like. You can talk, for example, about the cheating deficit; data published last days by the Ministry of Business. You have eliminated 8.7 % of social expenditure in seven years: EUR 1 billion less in health care...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u37	Quiet. Quiet, please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u38	...education and social services. And now you're offering a subsidy bonus of 50 million euros, 5% of what's been cut. Should we thank him for those grants or claim him the 950 million that's still missing? Only in the current legislation, in these four years, have you reduced by 10% of the educational expenditure, by 2.5% of the health expenditure and by 13% of the expenditure on social affairs, whereas, yes, the rest of the non-social expenditure increased. If you look at staff spending, you have reduced it precisely in teaching, health and social services, exactly the opposite of what other autonomous communities have done. You cut where it hurts most, like employment or housing programs. And besides what they announce and promise in the budget is false, because they then leave behind high counties. For example, without running half the budget of university scholarships and nearly half the funds to fight unemployment, and 40% of housing policies. Its government is inoperative, no doubt by its instructions, even in strategic areas, in R & D, in Feder Funds, in infrastructure investments. Aid to companies, for example, has dropped at least 75%. Let's directly go back to our history. At the universities we're now like 12 years ago. We lost half of the investigator's staff, culture has been abandoned. Where are we going with you, Mr. President? Against history, a broken society, with an immense number of excluded people, with a ruined middle class and only few beneficiaries? Mr. President, I understand your frustration, because you don't want it in Madrid or in private companies. Of course, those companies do know how to read their balance sheet and their results account! They know how to measure their failure as ruler! Are you aware of the inoperation of your government in the face of the main problems of the country?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u39	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Answer by the president of the board.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Méndez Romeo, the elections in Galicia are not convened, what are called are the elections within the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Galicia, yes, Your Honor. [[Laughter]] And as for whether they want us or not we are wanted in our party, Mr. Méndez Romeo, allow me not to pronounce me. [[Murmurs.]] Mr. Méndez Romeo, while you were asking this question, in Vigo two cars were manufactured, two cars! I had the opportunity to be informed by the world president of PSA...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u41	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u42	...that in Galicia we have achieved, in the year and a half, nothing more and nothing less than three new PSA vehicles. And also the opportunity to realise that in Galicia we're going to manufacture 500,000 vehicles. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u44	That's why, Your Honor, in Galicia we will manufacture every three minutes three cars. You will understand, Your Honor, that some things are better in Galicia. [[Applause]] Look, Your Honor, you're talking about budgeting, social policies... look, we're running the budget more than the rest of the autonomous communities, 106%. Your Honor, we have an execution of the entire budget of the Galician Union, for example in capital expenditure, i.e. investments, of 107 per cent; on the average of autonomous communities, 84%. If you want to talk about how we pay the suppliers, see, in March in 22 days. We're among the four autonomous communities that we better pay our bills. Your Honor, if you tell me about public investments, I thank you, because the Ministry of Business has just made a data public: in 2015 Galicia was the autonomous community that most invested per capita against its autonomous budget; twice as much as the rest of the autonomous communities. All of this, Your Honor, what it produces is that we now have a liability surplus – i.e. additional funds – which seems to bother you that we invest in social spending. Yes, Your Honor, 500 more infantry squares; the card for all babies who are born next year, in the same way as those who are born in this; you improve in 370 schools... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u45	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u46	Never, in such a short time, have we done so many works in public schools. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Free transportation for all under 18 years of age. 30,000 people will wait less on the waiting list. We will complete 13 health centres and start another 10. In housing policy, Your Honor, more than 7,000 people will see their homes improved. And by the way, Your Honor, tomorrow, at the Council of the Union, we will indeed continue to invest in the future of the Greeks and not covering the holes that left us when we arrived at the Government of the Union, Your Honor. That's what we're going to do because we already paid those holes, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Tomorrow we will make available the industrial fabric, the productive fabric and the innovative fabric of the autonomous community 20 million euros...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u47	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u48	...for loans, finance and leases that will move 100 million euros of investment. By the way, Your Honor, in the municipalities where there is no more industry than the agricultural industry, we will put seven million euros to facilitate the recruitment of 700 people in the municipalities of less than 10,000 inhabitants. Your Honor, as you will understand, this is not the Socialist Party, this is the Government of the United States. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Replica, Mr. Méndez Romeo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u50	Mr Feijóo, if the production of cars depends on this Member asking questions, I'll ask you one minute. And I don't even tell you, as long as I speak, how many garments did Indidex. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] What about you? You just told me here again a pre-election announcement: you will now recover 20 million of the companies. You have reduced two-thirds of the aid to companies in the last seven years, what are you talking about here today, Mr. President? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You have an obsessive fixation with social spending and the state of well-being. It's disgusting to an equal society, with equal rights and benefits for all, and it wants a stratified society, where those who are least stigmatized and excluded, who are forced to apply for grants for everything. Grants that will be received, not with criteria of justice, but with bureaucratic criteria. An unequal society, yes, under an authoritarian government, that's its model: a state of beneficence, not a state of rights. Look, the whole world's propaganda, Mr. Feijóo, can't cover up that you've spent these years more on advertising and on automobile than it now promises as social alms: 17 million a year, plus one TV paid by everyone to the exclusive service of adulation to you. No matter how much you thank your courtiers, you're the naked king, you've lost the shirt of credibility. In five months I'll be sitting in the presidency and you'll be in the opposition. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u51	Quiet, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u52	Those jokes are nothing more than the frolic laughter of insecurity.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u53	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u54	Mr. President, you've been overcome by ideology and lack of empathy. The conservative mantra of deficit and liberalism leaves a country devastated, with much suffering and little justice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u55	Finish, please. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u56	Mr. Núñez Feijóo, for you it's already late, so much so that he has the advertising industry that he's going to make us now every Thursday. It plays alternation, Mr. President, it plays alternation because you were deaf and blind to people's demands...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u57	Quiet, please. Finish.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u58	...and you chose to work exclusively for your vanity and for your personal master.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u59	Thank you, Mr. Méndez Romeo. Lockdown, Mr. President. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] [[Murmurs.]] Please be quiet. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Méndez Romeo, splendid intervention, I congratulate you. It gives me the feeling that in the parliamentary group there are people who are doubting, but after this intervention I am convinced that you will be lucky. [[Laughter]] I wish you and the other candidate the best of luck, because we have to work equally, Your Honor, and since the other candidate is not, the best thing is that we both wish the best of the best of luck. Mr. Méndez Romeo, I do not hide your luck from me. In the last intervention, you told me that I used the 500 million euro announcement of the Navantia ships. I told him I'd transfer that complaint to the Australian Navy. And now you tell me that Citroën's themes are used again. No, Your Honor, the themes of Citröen what we did was to work them, quite, very much. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Your Honor, I understand that there are people who, as they don't know what we do, can talk, but that's their problem, Your Honor. Both in Paris and in Vigo, in Vigo and in Paris, Citröen-PSA, Peugeot-Citröen, knows very well what he has done and what he will do in Galicia to clear for a decade the problems of automotive in the autonomous community. You know it perfectly well, Your Honor. [[Applause]] By the way, Your Honor, this May month could not have been better from the point of view of industry in the naval sector, in the aeronautical sector and in the automotive sector. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] In the naval sector, I work for Ferrolterra, and we need more. [[Murmurs.]] In the aeronautical sector, the commitment never achieved before, and now yes, of the unmanned aircraft park in Rozas, Lugo. And in the automotive sector, I just reflected on you that we have work for the next ten years. These three sectors, in May, committed EUR 4,200 million of investment. Look, Your Honor, if you look at the PSA plant, you'll see that we're making cars, and more and more. If you look at the shipyards, you'll see that we have ships for more than 2,300 million euros, and more and more. If you look at the Rozas aerodrome, you'll see that we're starting to make an aerodrome park, the first in Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] However, if you look at your own party, there will be difficulties to see something positive. [[Murmurs.]] You're in a self-destruct race, but that's your problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u61	Mr. Losada, be quiet. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, quiet. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u62	Your Honor, it is clear that Vigo concierge will support you. Congratulations, Your Honor. But look, Your Honor, I am not going to enter internal questions of the Socialist Party because you know perfectly well that I would like nothing more than to have a Socialist Party approved of European social democracy. But when you say you're going to sit in the presidency of the board, Your Honor... are you in favor or against ruling with the tides of Podemos? Looks like you're against ruling with the tides of Podemos. You're on the side of the Socialist Party... [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u63	Mr. Losada, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u64	...that they are against ruling with the tides of Podemos. In any case, in case you scold the other side...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u65	Call the order, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u66	...critique us, Your Honor. Criticized the People's Party of Galicia. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u67	Call the order. Sorry, Mr. President. Call the order. Mr. Losada, call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u68	Your Honor, there are some very nervous Members who remind me that we're talking about Galicia, not the PSOE. But if you just told me the Socialist Party candidate who will sit in the Chair of the Union! I will understand, Your Honor, that we are talking about the Socialist Party and Galicia. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But, look, sitting in the presidency isn't like that, Your Honor, it's working in the Presidency of the Union, it's getting some budgets every year... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u69	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u70	...is to pass the laws every year, it's to take Galicia forward. And there, Your Honor, it's us...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u72	...dealing Galicia forward, working every year, fulfilling our commitments, improving health and education and...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u73	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u74	... improving Galician productivity and economy.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u75	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u76	Mr. Méndez Romeo, if you want to help with this, welcome to Galician governance. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the fourth point of the agenda, which corresponds to non-legislative proposals. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Socialists of Galicia, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the attention being given to people with chronic psychiatric diseases derived from residences of the third age
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u78	There were no amendments to this proposal. Mrs. Acuña has the floor for her defense.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u79	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. Well, this weekend right here in Santiago, the 3rd Days of the Galego Mental Health Movement will be celebrated. And in this context, we bring back, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the debate about the abandonment that people with mental illness are suffering here in our country. I've given up all of them since Mr Feijó came to the presidency of the Union to work so hard. He worked so hard that the first thing he did was to make the mental health plan disappear. A very dangerous abandonment of those people that the management that Mr. Feijóo worked so hard made them store in the homes of the old age after the closure of the obsolete asylums; obsolete asylums, that no one doubts it or questions it. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have repeatedly denounced the problems and shortcomings of mental health. We've already talked about the abandonment of the suicide plan, despite being in a crisis situation and that last year, in 2015, there were 321 people who committed suicide in our country. We also have very clear, everyone at this point is very clear, which is proven the relationship between crisis, unemployment, emptiness, mental illness and suicide, even though the People's Party, apart from the discouragement, especially to the disappointment of the others, continues to deny it. Perhaps because of this in this context you have no doubt applied forced retirements to the models of mental health professionals. Perhaps that is why he continues to disregard mental health nursing, and perhaps that is why he continues to do nothing about clinical psychology. But let's see, ladies and gentlemen, how we are in Galicia in relation to the recommended mental health ratios. In psychiatrists, the recommended ratio is 6 per 100,000 inhabitants. In Galicia, how many do we have? For in Galicia we have 2.3 psychiatrists per 100,000 inhabitants. Psychologists, recommended ratio: 4 per 100,000. In Galicia, how many do we have? 1.2. Mental health nursing, recommended ratio: 3 per 100,000. Galicia: 0.86. It doesn't look like, ladies and gentlemen, with this data that we've gone too far in mental health professionals. But if we're not left in professionals, in infrastructures, neither, even though you've happily shut down many of them. And we've also talked in this House about psychogeriatric units, missing. By the way, we had an opportunity to see that the health counsellor doesn't even distinguish them, confuses them with mental health units. Well, psychogeria units are essential when you're increasing senis dementia and Alzheimer's disease. We also talk about the paralysed community mental health teams, so necessary for the follow-up of severe mental disorder and a long et cetera. But in addition, all these debates raised by our group have come to this House with proposals, proposals and more proposals. Many of them, as in this case, suggested by their own experts, by their own mental health professionals. But I must say, however, that each and every one of them was rejected by the vote against the People's Party and, in particular, by the labourer Mr. President, Mr. Feijóo. So today we are again insisting on this non-law proposal that was rejected there is nothing, just a few days ago, in Commission 5a. But let us insist again, ladies and gentlemen, on the importance of this matter. And also to see if the People's Party has changed its mind, imbued, as it is, with this false solidarity in view of the proximity of the electoral campaign. Perhaps now in this context you remember that these people, who were displaced from the psychiatric wards and stored without any mirage in the residences of the old age, also have rights. Just like the people who are victims of machismo and the people who are in prison who are still waiting for hepatitis C treatment. By the way, it turns out, gentlemen, absolutely indecent, and I think it's the most fitting word, "indecent," to see how at the end of each board of assembly Mr. Feijóo comes out wrapped up in the cloak of solidarity sharing money. Now it turns out – let's hear it this morning – that we have waiting lists, gentlemen. Turns out the waiting lists have appeared. But not only do we have waiting lists now, but the money has also appeared to reduce them. I asked him yesterday about violence and I asked him again today about health: what will you think, ladies and gentlemen, the families of the people for whom Mr. Feijóo's solidarity is late? How will you understand that Feijóo had the money stored in a drawer while letting the sick die waiting for the treatment of hepatitis C? Because this, ladies, has happened in our country, yes; or having committed suicide, as in that case, yes, of this mental illness of Mondoñedo. I'm not going to name using public money to buy votes, to buy governments or to buy courts to pass the October revalide, instead of destined them to meet the needs of citizenship. I won't name it, but, no doubt, it does. In the debate on this proposal in the committee, and even today, we socialists again denounce that cuts in health kill. And let us denounce it again because, ladies and gentlemen, it is undoubtedly our obligation to oppose, yes, to warn, warn, warn and denounce this situation, because that is what is happening. So we did it on his day – I have to say that with little success – about what was going on with people who were ill with hepatitis C when we knew they were dying without treatment. Because that, we like it or we don't like it, it happened. And so we do it again now, gentlemen, with those mentally ill people who are abandoned, without the care they need, in residences of the third age or residential centers. Sadly, a person has already died, yes. And it was a dramatic, unfortunate, terrible death in forms. But, ladies and gentlemen, it was also a predictable, predictable death. Experts say it's easy, it's predictable, it's possible that people with these pathologies behave like this and do those suicide attempts that ended with that patient's death in this case. I insist on the idea. That person died but it is that at any time they can die more because they are people who were admitted to mental illness in health centers and who were displaced from these centers and abandoned, abandoned – I insist on the term – to their luck in social residential institutions, who can have wonderful chairs, wonderful beds, beautiful rooms with sights, but they don't count on the infrastructures or adequate staff to provide the care they need that kind of patients need. And that death, ladies and gentlemen, makes it clear. It is clear that the needs of a person – and this seems obvious – do not seem to need much explanation – the needs of a 90-year-old person, even if he has senile dementia, cannot be the same nor are they the same as those of a 40-year-old mentally ill person. And besides those differences are not saved by an administrative change that changes the age limits to enter these residences. That, by the way, was just what this government did, deleting on paper the limitation that existed, which was not previously allowed to enter those residences to persons under the age of 60. They changed their little paper, they changed their age, but nothing else. And that, ladies and gentlemen, doesn't fit in, no. I pile it up, store it and, above all, quit. Ladies and gentlemen, families and caregivers are very concerned about this situation, just as the professionals are concerned. Professionals who, grouped under the cloak of Galicia's Galego Mental Health Movement, ask us precisely the three points we have raised, that the Socialist Parliamentary Group collects today in this non-legislative proposal. Three things, three fair requests, three necessary requests: control of the centers where we take these people, follow-up of those people, professional and special follow-up of those people, and health care of those people, because they are sick people. It is – I insist – three necessary and fair requests that I hope the People's Party will accept on this occasion. For now, nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the Joint Parliamentary Group, Mrs Iglesias.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u81	Good morning, ladies. Good morning, President. Greetings to Members and Members who are in the VIP area for coffee. As early as 2011 the World Health Organization warned through a specific report that if, using the crisis as a justification, policies for cutting and reducing social protection were developed, the risks and problems for the mental health of the population affected by these cuts would be increased. In spite of this warning, the governments of the People's Party, in this case, have insisted and insist on their policies of cutting public services and also on their policies of precarious work. The result of this stubborn and harmful economic, social and labor policy is a strong increase in the incidence of psychic disorders and also an alarming rise in the suicide rate. In 2014 – caring – 390 suicides occurred in our country, more than one per day, according to data from the Galego Mental Health Movement. And in the latest data, the officers, the data corresponding to the National Institute of Statistics, which dates back to 2013, point out that Galicia registered in 2013, 333 suicides, a rate of the highest in Spain. This rate is the consequence of the living conditions and working conditions, of the increase in the suffering caused by the threat that the lives of the working class project the financial crisis and the austerity policies that governments have in place to get out of this crisis. They are increasingly the excluded people, the homeless people, who survive on the street in the most absolute disillusionment and in the indifference of the Government. We can see it now if we leave the street, here in Compostela, practically at the doors of this building where we debate and debate, in front of the gates of Parliament in Galicia, on the street of Horreo. The tip of the iceberg of this human mass took on a few days ago in the form of news when the press collected the case of a citizen under 50 years of age who entered a hieriac, a man who has a very serious personality disorder and dependence on certain substances that nullify his decision-making and defence capacity. The case is found in the Public Prosecutor's Office at the initiative of a Compostela judge who – textually speaking – "is observing criminal responsibilities of the Government of Unity for lack of attention to homeless people, and finds it unjustifiable to delay within the time limits and absence of a proper public centre to treat their personality and dependency disorder." The deterioration in mental health care is part of the deterioration of public health in general, and both are a consequence of the management that is being done to deal with the economic crisis and the cut in rights that we are suffering. The state of health and social care to mental health in Galicia is in free retreat. Today, assistance is being provided under the necessary quality and safety conditions, such as limitations on hospital access or shortening. This decreases the quality of care and compromises the safety of patients, their families and society in general. This perverse effect lies particularly in social classes that have less resources, that have more needs and that are in the worst mental health situation. In conclusion, people with a serious mental disorder and no resources are the ones most affected by the deterioration of health care to mental health. It deals with this initiative on time with patients affected by serious mental health disorders and entered into hieriacs as if they were a jasper box. An initiative of minimals that the only one that aims is a follow-up and census of this type of patients by the Health Inspectorate and the Council. The Joint Group will support this initiative because it is of reason and law. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u82	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left Gaga Alternative, Mrs Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u83	Thank you, President. In fact, we talked about this in early months in the Committee on Health, and surprisingly the People's Party voted against this non-law proposal, which, as the Joint Group spokesperson had now moved, was a minimum initiative. I have already moved on many occasions, and also at that time, the consideration of the deterioration of public health, a deterioration that – we have commented on in this House – affects all over, on the one hand, primary care and, on the other, collectives with more vulnerability. And one of them is precisely mental health. We have denounced, as the professionals and mental health professionals report, the abandonment of the Mental Health Plan, the abandonment of the prevention and treatment of addictions and drug addictions and the destruction of what has been or what wanted to be a prevention-oriented model. At a time when, as we have already known from official data, suicides and psychopharmaceutical consumption are increasing, that one in ten people, according to the World Health Organization data, have some mental health problem and that it is estimated, in addition, that 30% of primary care consultations in Galicia are related to some psychological problem. We have also denounced the deficiencies here at the new hospital in Vigo, which also transfer health and health care or the attempt to close the mental health unit of Gil Casares in Compostela. So the professionals told us, so they told me myself, when I visited the center a few months ago, in which, existing from that empty bed, they avoided making incomes in those beds; a lock that not only affected the summer months but now it was practically perpetual, not used the free beds and sent some sick and sick high in the emergencies. We've claimed to create the Joint Clinical Psychology Squares, and the People's Party has voted against it. We have discussed the situation in which we have hundreds of clinical psychologists and psychologists – so recognised by the Galician Union in the Health Commission – to 2.7 million people throughout Galicia, a situation that is frankly poor in terms of mental health care. We have also asked for improvements and a new mental health plan to be implemented. We don't know if that proposal that the People's Party accepted, the Government through the People's Group, concerning the Strategic Plan of a new mental health plan and participated by professionals, as I propose AGE, whether it's going to put in place or it's going to stay on wet paper again. What about this initiative? We said it the other day at the committee. We've been sold that the closure of madhouses implies a change in the model of mental health care, when it's false. The closure itself means simply a closure, that is, when we're seeing all these cuts that I just defined, when there's no implementation of mental health in primary care, when besides all these needs we have, for example, child-child care in mental health totally abandoned, closing a asylum, even though we agree, doesn't mean changing the mental health system, the health system. What we have to do is take a lot of other measures, such as implementing media, human resources, material resources and planning that is focused on prevention. Obviously, closing a asylum in itself is the need to transfer these people to another unit. What's going on? The decision to do so was not made to a chronic unit, for example, or another public service. The decision was made to transfer to concerted centres, as has already been explained in the presentation of this initiative, without any control over the situation. I understand that it is quite amazing that, when the initiative calls for periodic inspection plans to be carried out in those residences where these people have been moved to, that the Inspectorate is responsible for the follow-up of these sick people – who are, in addition, people who have been in some cases entering the centers for many years; others, less – and that a follow-up plan is drawn up, if they vote against. Because it shouldn't even be necessary for a group to come to the House to propose it; that is, the control work of how patients are, in this case of mental health, is an obligation of the Health Council, we shouldn't even have to ask for it. In addition, when asked for a non-legislative proposal, it is incredible that one should vote against having control over the transferred sick. It's just that you're not asking for anything else. So we understand that we need a new mental health plan, because in the Health Council everything is a lack of planning, that is done with professionals and professionals and that it is done from a preventive point of view, implementing human and material resources. And, of course, the minimum, which is what is called for in this initiative, I believe that it should be accepted by the whole group. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. For the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u85	Thank you, President. Good morning. Indeed, once again we have to address the situation of mental health, the problems of mental health, which in Galicia are many and very quiet, and in which unfortunately, in view of that situation, the Government of the People's Party is the balance it shows us is of ineffectiveness, of pre-eminence and of privatization. We have already denounced on numerous occasions that mental health is one of the great forgetfulness of public health in Galicia. If public health in general is being brought down by the People's Party, mental health is falling from the worst situation. The decisions that the People's Party has made in the Government of the Union, far from improving the situation, which by itself was not good, have only made it worse. More than seven years of the People's Party legislation and this situation year by year, budgeting, has deteriorated. They do not include enough items in the budgets of the Board and vote against the amendments we have tabled to try to resolve this issue. They vote against the initiatives we have put forward in this Parliament to increase staff, including the increase of professionals in clinical psychology. And in conclusion, the situation, as I say, can only get worse. By putting the mental health situation on paper, that doesn't really move. As much as they put and include in the plan of health priorities that need mental health care, if this is not accompanied by resources, increased staff, especially political decisions that mental health has a preeminent attention, it is not solved. Just as it can't be solved by including it in Sergas's strategies, which is included as an epigraph, but which then does not move on to any particular question. Professionals and family members denounce the progressive deterioration of mental health, and in view of this the People's Party is totally averse to these requests. And within the decisions made, with the closure of the closed institutions, of the so-called asylums, the BNG – I insist – agreed. What we don't agree with is that if you make a decision to close some institutions and you don't put in place mechanisms to care for people who were in those institutions or who needed specific attention. The measure of closing these centers and turning these people into senior residences, of course, seems to us from BNG to be a very bad decision. You've said it here, but you have to emphasize it, you have different needs. Mentalally ill people have different needs and need totally professional attention and different from older people who might be in these senior homes. What have they also done as a pre-step for these revenues? First, take steps to remove the 60-year barrier to stay in these residences. The BNG in principle seemed strange to this measure, now we see why they took it. So to occupy these empty squares, because there were empty squares in the hieriacs because of the crisis, just like because of the crisis there is an increase in people who need mental health care. So as a result of these two measures, removing the barrier, removing empty squares or providing empty squares in these centers, people need special attention move. Residencies with accurate resources are what these staff need, and in homes for older people they don't have people to meet these characteristics. Which one do we meet with? At risk for patients, risk for professionals, we find ourselves unprotected and we find ourselves with a worse quality of care. No planning, no budget. The People's Party votes against the measures we demand, the planning we demand, that budget we demand, that increase of professionals. And then I guess you'll come here saying that mental health is a priority. I insist that, if it is a priority and then no mechanisms are put in place to address it, it will be, therefore, a declaration of intent with nothing against it. Of course, we're concerned that you're not betting on a care model that ensures the well-being, recovery, community reintegration of these people. And for those who cannot be re-entered into the community, who are not possible because of their situation...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u86	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u87	...or because they don't have an environment that favors them, or a family environment that can be taken care of, since there are spaces where they are cared for, but spaces in conditions, specific spaces, because, of course, the residences of the third age are not the place to care for them. That is why we are going to vote in favour of this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u89	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. The first thing I mean is that here seems to have been talked about in many cases of everything but the subject of the proposal. So I'm gonna do something about it, too. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the person you were talking about, I repeated information, of course, in the health section. And the information I have is that this person was admitted by a disease in a hospital, treated according to protocol. He was up when he didn't need hospitalization. On behalf of the social services of the hospital, they will offer him residential alternatives that he refused. And, of course, Sergas, at the judicial level, is willing to collaborate a hundred percent. Not one more word, because I respect the professional secret and respect the privacy of the data of the sick, which often seems to be not respected in this House. Mrs. Acuña, there are two judgments last month condemning Sergas to pay compensation for death problems or serious complications of the sick. You will never, ever listen to this spokesperson, as spokesperson for the Popular Parliamentary Group, using any of these cases to mess with you. I tell him heartily, eh! because I think some things that are used here are not excessively serious or appropriate. And going to the subject, we actually discussed in Commission 5 the death of a woman in a center of Mondoñedo, who was denounced by her family two years after it happened and who is currently under investigation for justice, indeed. This center, specifically that center, the seriously affected residence of San Pablo and San Lázaro, is not a major center, it is not a center of the third age. It's a centre of handicaps that has squares arranged with the Social Policy Council. Indeed, as mentioned here, it has proceeded to close the asylums, integrating patients, primarily, into their family environment. But, as was said here, not everyone – and there are many older sick people – has a family, or there are other families whose families cannot attend them, they have no possibilities, and even some family that doesn't want to take them home. And when there's no other possibility, trying to social integration of the sick, it's when they enter these centers. The reference user to which they refer, the person who died in Mondoñedo, entered that center by the condition of a person with disabilities through the Greek system of dependency attention. And there was more talk in the commission than here – here it seems not to talk so much – about specialized residential care. I wasn't able to know exactly what it was, no. It reminds me a little of the constitutional reform of the Socialist Party, this of the federal state, of what is spoken of but never explained. That in the end, what is it? It's said to be stored. In the end, they will be stored in another type of centres, and we want the social integration of these sick people. These sick people must be integrated into society, or at least that's what most experts think, who spoke out in favour of closing these centers. With regard to the points of the initiative, with regard to the first one, I have to say that the Social Policy Council carries out inspections, as it could not be otherwise, both periodic and demand for complaints or suggestions from users. There is an annual inspection plan, and in this ordinary inspectoral activity there is control of respect for the rights of users, compliance with existing regulations on social services, both in structural and functional aspects, the level of quality of services offered and provided to users, the qualifications of staff providing direct care services and the existence of precise authorizations in the case of health services, and the existence of sufficient staff with the appropriate titration for the proper care of users. On the other hand, when there are complaints or complaints by individuals or citizens, specific inspections are carried out to verify and investigate the aspects mentioned in the complaint. So we are not going to support that first point, because we are convinced that these inspections are already taking place. And they are done by the Social Policy Council, which is competent. With regard to the issue that the health inspection controls the state of these sick people, I believe that the state of these sick people and the clinic of these sick people is controlled in mental health units that depend on those who attend consultations. The care of residents monitors Social Policy, and specialized medical follow-up is done from Mental Health. And as I told you in the committee, if we are allowed to vote on points, we would be willing to vote on point 3 affirmatively to draw up a census and follow-up plan for these patients, always taking into account the privacy of the data and the consent of the affected or their legal guardians. I must also tell all Members and Members that all sick people who are high in a public hospital in the mental health service and are transferred to a residence are codified in the computer system, so it is very easy to draw up that census in these cases. The problem would be with the collection of data from sick people who didn't make a hospital admission, but we thought the Council could and should do it. We hope from the majority group that they will change the position expressed in the committee and that they will accept the vote by points. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u90	Thank you, Mr. Núñez Centeno. For the author group of the non-law proposition, Mrs. Acuña.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u91	Thank you, President. Well, I want to start by thanking the groups for their support. I qualified this initiative as just and necessary, and I have to add – as Mrs Iglesias pointed out – that it is also right and law. My honourable Member, I suppose the fault of what is happening with these patients will not be family, right? –I suppose you don't mean that – nor, of course, the management of the Bipartite, which is a bit far away already. Look, you can't vote against this, because we're just asking the Health Administration not to disagree with some patients who have every right to be treated, all right to be treated, because they have the same rights even if they're mentally ill, which is a trick! They have the same rights as the rest of the people, the same rights. Look, integrated yes, honourable Member, not stored. I just didn't understand that refusal to carry out inspections at the foster residential centres of these patients to check that they count on the infrastructure and on the personnel needed and trained enough to give them adequate attention. What's wrong? Do you want to hide something? Maybe if we're going to inspect, we find they don't have what they need? Look, we're just asking them exactly what you said they're doing without any problem: special inspections requested by this House, by the Welsh House. You say you always attend inspection requests when asked by a family, a complaint. Well, look, I'm asking for all the opposition here in the Welsh House, special inspection. Realize it. Look, why do you object to the follow-up on medical inspection? They're chronically ill people who were entering a closed health institution. Look, they have mental health problems. Many of them are protected, others are in special circumstances or legal conditions. Those conditions and circumstances don't have an EPOC or a Cardiopath. We are talking about mentally ill people, Mr. That's it. In addition, this follow-up through the inspection does not ask the honourable Member, ask the experts to do so. Yeah, those experts you said were still in mental health units. Well, look, it's the experts who ask us for this initiative, I've told you before, grouped under the umbrella of the Galego Mental Health Movement. Why do you refuse a census and medical follow-up of these patients? You speak of confidentiality, of privacy. Yes, they have the right to confidentiality, of course. They have the right to privacy, of course. But they will also have the right to be cared for, Mr President, to be treated in health care. Look, it's a minimum initiative. It's three logical and essential requests that family members and experts are asked for. Stop buying votes with that false solidarity and take care of the people who need it, take care of these people who are the weakest link in our society because their heads are missing, Mr.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u92	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u93	They're dementiad, silenced, and now they're also abandoned. They reflect and vote in favour of this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. Jesús Antonio Goldar Güimil and six other Members, on the execution in 2016 of the first two-thirds of the Morrazo highway, as well as the end of that year of the drafting and approval of the third-third-party project
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u95	To this non-law proposal, amendments have been tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group, the Socialist Group and the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u96	To formulate the non-law proposal, Mrs. Berta Pérez Hernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u97	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies. The initiative that we bring to your debate today is not an isolated issue, but we are talking about one of the biggest concerns we've had for years with the neighbors and neighbors of Morrazo. I'm talking about the famous Morrazo corridor, which has already been discussed in this House on several occasions. Since its inception – it must be remembered that it was inaugurated in 2005 – the political and neighbouring disputes and criticisms that have always accompanied this corridor have been constant. Of course, when a road passes through more than one municipality with different governments, it is at least complex to make everyone agree. With the passing of time, little by little, the corridor became the most transitory infrastructure, even by those who criticized it so much during its execution. We're talking about a corridor that runs 15,000 vehicles a day, and that reaches up to 20,000 vehicles a day in the summer. We all use this road to go to work in Vigo, Pontevedra or around, thus shortening travel times in relation to national 551. And besides this corridor caused thousands of tourists to decide to come to Morrazo on vacations as well as to encourage themselves to have their second residence in the region, and not just to come to the beaches, as you have been criticized here. Having better road communication with the Morrazo peninsula has brought a lot of benefits, but it's also causing a lot of traffic jams and jams during the summer season. Faced with concern, both neighbors and mayors of Cangas, Moaña and Bueu, for wanting to provide greater accessibility and adapt the way to the needs of the massive influx of vehicles, at their own time requested the former Environmental, Territory and Infrastructure Adviser, Augustine Hernández, who had taken letters on the matter and had looked for the formula to unlock the corridor and turn it into a highway, so as to have a road according to the needs of the county. It was in 2012 when the former advisor introduced the Morrazo Peninsula Road Plan, which set priority targets to improve mobility and road safety in the area. The final approval of the plan was published in the Official Journal of Galicia on 16 April 2013, after its public exhibition. All of us here are aware of the obstacles and difficulties that this measure, both at the economic and technical level, will certainly remember because it was the cause of several debates in this House. In view of the current economic framework, which forced investment priority, and the objective of making the implementation of this essential infrastructure viable, it was decided to divide the performance into three sub-trails to ensure the viability of the execution, both financial and constructive. One of the measures was to draft a new project of tracing, less invasive and more careful with the environment than the initial one, which was submitted to the public exhibition – in particular, on 20 July 2012–. The first of the sections has 3.2 kilometers, between the start of the corridor in the Domaio roundabout and the link of San Lourenzo, both in the municipality of Moaña, with an amount of EUR 20 million, which in addition to the deployment itself covers three main infrastructures: the 73-metre Rande linkway, which will allow the direct link from the corridor to the AP-9 and the Rande bridge; the extension of the Moura viaduct, with more than 400 metres; and the expansion of the Montealegre tunnel, of 133 metres, in which the archaeological project is already authorized, which collects special protection measures to minimize the affection of the archaeological remains existing in the area where the tunnel will be expanded. This first plot began last October, in an act in which the current Infrastructure Advisor Éthel Vázquez, the Vice-President in Vigo, Mr. Ignacio López-Chaves, the Mayors of Cangas and Bueu, Xosé Manuel Pazos and Felix Juncal, the lieutenants of Mayor of Moaña, Marta Freire and Odilo Barreiro, and the former mayors of Cangas, José Enrique Sotelo, and Moaña, José Fervenza, and what I was. I insist, all the mayors and spokespersons of the Morrazo came along with that opening. With regard to the second section, the data we know are that the project was approved on August 11, 2015, the works were auctioned on December 16, of the same year, examined only fifteen days ago – May 11 – and the beginning of the works is scheduled for this same summer. This second stretch will begin in the Domaio link and end in the Meira link, which will cover a stretch of more than four kilometers of action, in which are planned, in addition to the unfolding of the trunk, the following works: the remodeling of the links of principle and end of action, duplicated of the 430-metre MOP viaduct and extension of two lower steps and one upper. In addition, a future service area in Meira is projected to be built for which the crowds will allow all input and exit movements of it, including the execution of a new top step on the highway. In relation to the third indent, we note that the contract for its drafting has already been adjudicated and is currently being drafted. I'd start at the Meira link and end at the first Cangas link. The performance includes the partial remodeling of the Meira link, the partial remodeling of the Moaña link, and the rehabilitation actions of the firm in the Cangas link. And as singular works highlight the duplication of the Fraga viaduct, the extension of two upper steps and five lower steps and the replacement of a pedestrian gateway. From the People's Parliamentary Group we are aware of the will of the Council of Galicia and of the commitment it has always shown to the neighbours of the Morrazo and that it is firmly demonstrated in the budgets that the Council of Galicia is destined for this year for this purpose. 18 million euros that will enable us to continue to progress in the conversion of the Morrazo corridor into a highway, which will achieve an important improvement in road safety and the competitiveness of our area and which will allow Morrazo's citizenship to have a free highway of pay and more capacity than the current corridor. A new infrastructure that will undoubtedly lead to an increase in the quality of life of neighbours and neighbours and greater economic dynamism in our region. In the face of all the above, and in view of the need and importance for the whole Morrazo to have this work, we ask the Galician Parliament to urge the Galician Union to run the first two truces of the Morrazo highway and that this same year the drafting is completed and the project of the third treaty is approved. With this initiative we have fulfilled the needs of improving Morrazo municipalities, we have complied with our neighbourly requests – taking into account their allegations – and we have met to provide Morrazo with greater accessibility, communication, infrastructure and security according to its demands and needs. Now it's up to you to decide which side you want to be on, whether you want to support the construction of the bus at once or whether you prefer to dilate it over time by putting more conditions and more distractions. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Hernández. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u99	So I'm going to start by answering your question, we're on the side of sustainable development, of consented development, of the development that conserves the environment. And the construction of the Morrazo corridor, of course, was not an example of any of this, caused an enormous and irreversible environmental impact on the territory and on local economic resources, as shown by the millions of square meters of dismounts, earthquakes and stems and the shocking cement bridges. The Morrazo Mountain Defence Platform called for the withdrawal of the road conversion project by the most serious, irreversible and critical effects that could have on the works and the foreseeable unsustainable increase of traffic rotated and motorized on the environment, cultural heritage and socio-economic environment. It involves a new economic disaster and a waste of public funds for a project that makes it virtually impossible to achieve other more sustainable alternatives based on the development of proximity transport but on the empowerment of river transport. The construction of the rapid route has already caused critical or severe impacts on the atmosphere, water, land, vegetation, wildlife, landscape, cultural heritage, natural and protected spaces, ecological routes, communication routes, rural and local socio-economic environment. Before the imminent approval of the third stage, the lack of information, the negative experience of the corridor construction, which has caused and continues to cause constant incidences of landslides, and the bad channeling of rainwaters, which has caused floods at different points, Cangas calls for the formation of a commission to follow up the collapse of the Morrazo corridor. A technical report prepared for the enlargement project warns you that the solution to channel out of the foundations all the traffic that flows between Vigo and O Morrazo for a single lane in each direction will lead to the collapse of the infrastructure. The highway conversion of the current Morrazo corridor, which will turn from one to two lanes by way, will increase the traffic you will find when you arrive at the renewed bridge with a single rail funnel. The same will happen in the opposite sense, as the three lanes are being built on Teis to a lane for the people who have to go to the Morrazo. Of the more than 52,000 vehicles crossing the bridge every day – and in the summer 70,000 – it moves between Vigo and The Morrazo 53%. Besides, there won't be an alternative escape route, with the enormous danger that this entails and that we could already check on the bridge itself. The urgent works at the Morrazo bar are the improvement of the verebration and humanization of the existing comarcal road network; the empowerment of local, maritime and nearby public transport with connection of passenger ships, buses and minibuses reaching all the centres of population, urban and rural, at the comarcal level; the empowerment of pedestrian bikes and humanizations throughout the road network; the reduction in the need to travel by road outside the region and the dependence of the cities of Vigo and Pontevedra, providing the municipalities and the comarca of the administrative, health, educational, cultural and sports services that correspond and are necessary for a population of nearly 100,000 inhabitants. Ending the road to Morration is already a decision made, you come here again to advertise what the Government has already decided, what it is already stipulated. So, as we will already say in this Parliament, and say what the Morrazo population says, we present this amendment of substitution which urges the Union to submit to the approval of the municipalities affected by the expansion of the Morrazo corridor the plot, works and allocations, and deadlines of it – which it has not done – to improve and humanize the existing comarcal road network; to enhance the collective, land and maritime public transport with links of passenger ships, buses and minibuses that go to all the populations of the bisbar; to enhance the bike and pedestrian humanizations; and to equip the municipalities of the district of all essential services so that they do not have to go to the whole Vigo or Pontevedra. That's the solution, enough highways, enough big infrastructure that doesn't solve people's problems, that doesn't solve traffic problems, that doesn't solve people's mobility problems. They get to work in a sustainable, coordinated way and taking advantage of all the possibilities our rivers offer us. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u101	Good morning to all and to all. The Morrazo corridor perfectly depicts the interests of the People's Party with the comarca, for it was a work that from the beginning had a clear electoral interest, both to achieve the Mayor of Vigo and the assault on the Morrazo governments. Your leader, Mr. Núñez Feijóo, then COTOP's adviser, chose to turn his back on his future neighbours, did not dialogue with the municipal governments and did not attend to the different social, economic or environmental agents. It was left behind by local corporations, ignoring the thousands of claims of the neighbors; using it as an element of confrontation, not as an instrument to solve Morrazo's problems. An opportunity was lost to develop a mobility proposal for the Consensual and Rational Morration, remaining solely in a project based on the electoral needs of the People's Party. And so this model was imposed solely linked to the use of the individual car, with a huge environmental impact still unresolved today. So we're talking about the impact it has from the laugh to the court of Mount Guia, to Mount Liboreiro, to the problems of the creeks at the Amexoada, at the Kanal in Cangas, or at the Junqueira in Moaña, through the castle of Montealegre and a connection to the unsolved and totally defective secondary network. But it has brought far more serious problems: increased traffic or traffic jams, eternal restraints and the loss of twelve victims by the evil plot and its danger. A badly done work that after a decade has to be modified after becoming a left-hand track with a high mortality rate. But the paradox of politics is that instead of coming here and demanding responsibilities for such a chapuza, for an indecent investment that causes floods, environmental impact and costs human lives, the drama is that again, and without a face, the People's Party – the ones who made this chapuza – turns it into an election claim. With each new summons, the openings, the posters and the false promises return. And we've been here, yes, almost since it was over; they started with the privatization model of giving it to a company in exchange for giving it the maintenance of Morrazo's main roads for twenty-five years. They followed the two-trail model by 61 million, and now we have different commitments to the three-trail model, continuously selling that they're going to run. And it will refer there only to the last two tranches, which the first one would be finished before the municipalities in 2003; the third one, which would be started for the municipalities in 2011 and ended in 2013, which were promised again in 2015 matching the municipalities in May; and now that the generals of 2016 repeat, two frames running and the other approved the project. And that since the opposition we have repeatedly tabled amendments to the budgets and proposals for them to put more than 800,000 in 2014, or more than 2 million euros in 2015. Measures against accidents and danger, calling for a solution to the tracing, the paternality and the side problems it's generating. We are therefore faced with the penultimate act of propaganda of an evil work which does not solve the mobility problems of Morrazo, which destroys the environment and causes grief and death. A work that has mortgaged most of the county's investments and which represents the great project of the last decade of the People's Party. A People's Party is unable to understand the real needs of the region, preventing real and necessary solutions, such as the Circulation of Cangas, discarding that of Moaña; remaining necessary infrastructures like the health center of Aldan, Hio, relegated; or applying an intolerable customer model such as that of the tour of the Seara, a work carried out by the Galaga Infrastructure Agency without counting on the necessary land; or the center for retirees in the port of Meira. Its model is a model of electoral mobility, clientele, individual, landscape destroyer, with problems of perplexing, unrelated to secondary networks, which have now turned into a highly dangerous path in which rows of ballasts have to be drawn. The corridor, like the government Feijóo, is not meant to solve the Morrazo problems, it's a failed project that needs...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u102	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u103	...continually patches and new solutions. That's why we proposed a replacement amendment, to end this outraged propaganda: to hit once and for all so that it doesn't happen like in Rande or in the continuous overthrows; to solve the collateral security problems, the rains, the connection to the security network, the environmental impact and the heritage; to hit once and for all a project that aims to improve the quality of life of the neighbours and neighbors of Morrazo, not only a project to...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u105	...to present here when election periods come. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u106	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u107	Well, I was already saying yesterday that the election campaign was inaugurated and two of the councillors' appearances were opened, when the Government refused to attend, and once again another election campaign: the Morrazo corridor, the collapse of the Morrazo corridor. Of course, the group that has never changed its approach to this corridor was the Socialist Group, which on many occasions brought to this Parliament initiatives of all kinds, including amendments to the budgets of the Union, to carry out the unfolding of that corridor, which we said since it began to plan, beyond the first of the 90 – as Mr. Cuisine of Counsellor – that it should be a highway, i.e., that it should have two lanes in each direction, because the volume of traffic that supports the Morrazo district daily is greatly increased in the summer and demanded a way of these benefits, and not a corridor that – as it could be seen since it was inaugurated in 2009 – which has caused countless accidents, with many, too many, deadly victims in spite of the protests of Stop Accidents, the neighbours and neighbours of the municipalities and, in this case, of this parliamentary group. We are in 2016, election year, and therefore what has not been done until now is about doing it now, and the People's Party brings an initiative to this Parliament to say what is going to be done – which is already doing the Government, by the way – to hang the medal for the collapse of the Morrazo corridor. The truth is that the timing of the facts with regard to this corridor is quite clarifying which are the political priorities of the People's Party. Because the breach of the corridor was planned, projected and bided technical assistance for the drafting of trace projects, for environmental impact, by the Government of Mr. Touriño. And when Mr. Feijóo arrives in 2009, he pulls out everything he was planning to do, he dismisses the environmental impact assessment that was once again projected, because the collapse of the corridor impacts, it has nothing to do with the environmental impact report that was made in the early 1990s, when this infrastructure was planned, with environmental impact reports that demand the European Union's environmental legislation today. In April 2010 – with six months' delay as to what they were already saying – counsel Hernández announces the process of public information on the project and announces – at the same time – that environmental impact studies are not needed. In August 2010, the Government definitively approved the public information file. In October 2010 the Government approved the preliminary draft grant of public works. The tendering procedure for the award of the contract shall be published in March 2011. In December 2011 the public works concession was declared deserted for the construction and exploitation of the highway of Morrazo. It was the first walk of a series of delayed events all of them about the government's initial forecasts – which no one else did to the Government himself – to finally declare desert the bidding, despite the fact that we came saying from the Socialist Group, and from the other groups, that neither the budget intended nor the way to make the albiscao procedure that could go out well, as it finally did not. Well, from there he started this project bidding divided into three sections, in March 2015 and in June 2015, precisely to prepare for the election campaign of the 2016 autonomy; and they didn't know that then, but also that of the generals. Mr. Rajoy is probably coming back to Vigo to make a rally to tell us that the Morrazo corridor is going to be done, as he did in the 2011 general elections and how he had done it, even in the previous general elections. I believe that the citizens of Morrazo deserve a little respect from the People's Group, that if they are told the truth, and the truth is that we are going to have a partial corridor unfold, which is not total, that we are not going to have built neither the variants of Cangas, nor the variant of Moaña, nor the variant of Bueu, which would be the ones that would favor the connectivity of Morrazo throughout its extension, throughout the whole region, and that in addition the carpet that is organized for the extension of the Rande bridge and the connection to Morrazo will generate us in the summer – sure, again again – queues of vehicles stuck between Vigo and the beaches of Cangas. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, if they really want to make a commitment, even if it's in the electoral pre-campaign, with regard to the Morrazo corridor, they do two things: they commit themselves today to breaking down the entire corridor, the entire plot of the Morrazo corridor, and they also commit themselves to building the variants of Cangas, Moaña and Bueu, because that will ensure the connectivity of the Morrazo Town Councils between themselves and the Vigo metropolitan area, and the rest is again, again, electoral campaign. And for the election campaign of the People's Party, as you will understand, the Socialist Party will not collaborate. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u108	Thank you, Mrs Gallego. Parliamentary Group of the Left Galician Alternative. Mr. Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u109	Good day to all and all. The truth is that we have taken several plenarys – and this is no less – of the Pepper electoral campaign, what happens is that we are in a low-intensity Pepper electoral campaign, which can be an election campaign of "all 100" of a party, of a group, who assumes defeated that his moment has come, and that, of course, his position in this Parliament will be in opposition within a few months. Otherwise, they would be little understandable initiatives like these, where they not only lower what they promised a year or two ago on the corridor, but that is where it is clear – even in the tone of the spokesman who assumes the proposal – that it is something like: "it's what it touches", but we all know that it's not going to be who runs this issue the People's Party. This is because in 2013, we approved a proposal in which we voted against saying that the third section of this infrastructure would be bided, today we are already saying something else, we are no longer talking about bidding the third part, but it is said to urge the Council of Galicia to have the first two-thirds of the Morrazo bus run in 2016, and that in that same year the drafting is already finished and if the third project is approved, it does not even talk about it. So it goes down in intensity because they know that all this is a paraphernalia of electoral promises that are repeated in each process, and that the only thing behind it is to cover up the carpet of this project. The first thing to say is that the People's Party has devastated Galicia of road projects, in many unnecessary cases, and in other dangerous cases and that they were already born without the necessary equipment and without the means to give mobility solutions to places. And the Morrazo corridor is an example of a desire and unable, or in any case not to know, of the People's Party, which is unable to put on the table an internal mobility plan for Morrazo that solves its problems, which contemplates from maritime traffic to public transport by road, or even the internal mobility of the region itself, in such a way that the variants of the county councils are contemplated and, in addition, mechanisms are introduced that allow this region to be vertebrated. In front of that is the usual one, a high-capacity track that was born with a very serious security problem and that has unfortunately cost many deaths on that road, simply because of the inability of those who make the political decisions of this country, which is less bad than they assume that today this situation is going to change. We have already opposed these kinds of initiatives in this Parliament in 2013 because we believe that the objective has to be another one, and it has to be much more complex, and above all it has to count on the support and internal debate of the municipalities concerned. What can't be said is that since the Galician Union, decisions are made without the majority of society and without the municipalities concerned, that many of them are saying that this is not the solution, that the solution has to be different. First, to get rid of security problems clearly, to end internal communication problems and, above all, to solve the two embassies that will be created with this infrastructure, both at Rande Bridge and at its end of Cangas. Someone said on this same road a few minutes ago that you're going to spend this summer with the works started and with these two completely embezzled in a situation that will cause a lot more locks than those that are already usually provoked. So what's the position of the Alternative Gaga de Left? for first we can't be making chapuza after hat in this country. Yesterday we saw how it is done in this country, for example, an industrial polygon without any kind of business, but already with a way of connection. And how curious that in 2011 Mr Feijó announced all these works, and the only thing that is finished with all the conditionings is the high-capacity route that gives access to that PLSAN which turns out that it has no factories, no companies, nothing. But the pathways that would solve the multitude of neighbors, such as it can be a well thought-out, well-equipped high-capacity track, which does not have the environmental impacts that this one has and, above all, that it is safe, they haven't ended in the right times or mechanisms. So what we're asking the People's Party is that it's all right, that we don't deserve a government that's a chapucian, we don't deserve a government that only wastes public money, if we don't steal public money, and we don't need a government that's condemning most of this country's society to the situations of poverty when it wastes everyone's money and all in works that the only beneficiaries...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u110	Quiet, please. Maybe I don't say anything, but your party has to put a bail money on a money B issue, I don't know what the problem is when things are told to you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u111	Quiet. Let's get to the point. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet. Quiet. Let's move on with the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u112	The level of tolerance of the People's Party right now must be low, because when he didn't even say anything to the president, he has his level of tolerance – and we know how he has it – and if you have to offend. It's just that nervousness...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u113	Quiet. Quiet, please. We shall end this debate. Quiet, please. Quiet, quiet, please. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] It was all very quiet, we're going to end now; of course, it's the problem. We're going to finish this non-law proposition. Come on, finish it, please, when you can.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u114	I deeply regret that the People's Party is upset when it is reminded that they are immersed in a multitude of cases of corruption, and that these isolated cases are not isolated, but that it is a way of self-organizing to erupt this country and the whole state, which is what the People's Party has done. This crisis wouldn't be such if we hadn't attended the corrupt governments of the People's Party, which in many cases what they did was loot the public archives, and if they're upset, I'm very sorry, but that's what I think and that's what the social majority of this country thinks. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u115	Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Pérez Hernández.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u116	Thank you, President. As far as the amendments are concerned, Mrs. Martínez...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u117	I don't know how the amendments work. Quiet, please, if I don't know about the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u118	Mrs. Martínez, in spite of the knee injury we share and I hope you will recover soon, we will not accept your amendment, because you present a battery of performances that although the Board is working on them, little has to do with the conversion into itself of the Morration corridor on the highway, which is the axis of this initiative. The rest of your proposals will have time to debate them. Even so, you should know the start of the transport of the metropolitan area to Vigo, which is one of the proposals and one of the concerns of your demand. In relation to Mr. Rhodes, at the first point, Junta advances all the speed that it can, in the first stage the works have already begun in October, in the second frame they will begin in summer and in the third frame we will first have to have the constructive project, which is what we are asking for in this initiative; to accelerate processes yes, but in a reasonable and realistic way and not as you propose here. He talks about pipe problems that have already been solved, and he talks about huge environmental impacts that are not true, because monthly reports are being drawn up that deny his claim, so we're not going to accept his amendment either, because it's not realistic. As far as Mrs Gallego is concerned, I suppose she will be aware that on May 9th, the announcement was published that the public information was subject to annulment of the connection of PO-551 to VG-4.5, in which the variant of Moaña is found. And why? Because it was Moaña's own council that called for its annulment, both of Tiran's connection and Sabaceda's connection, the two connections, after the rejection shown by the municipal corporation and by some neighbouring groups. That's why the plot was canceled. You can't come here now to ask us to take a measure against the municipality. In relation to the variant of Cangas, if you had asked Mayor of Cangas, Xose Manuel Pazos, which told the councillor at the meeting they held on March 21 on this issue, he would know that the constructive project of the variant of Cangas will be completed this summer. For all this, we're not going to accept your amendment either. And well, now that there are already budgets, after you've paid all the government debts of what you've been part of, because the only thing you've done, yes, were a lot of reports, but zero works, because with your intervention you've made clear already how little you're interested in... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u119	You're done, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u120	...the safety of your neighbors, too, and the need for this bus to Morrazo. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I hope you think...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u122	...their position and change of mind. Finish. I want to insist and thank the Council of Galicia for carrying out and fulfilling its commitment to Morrazo and to make reality the so-called unfoldment of the corridor, and to celebrate today that as soon as we can enjoy a new highway that we have been demanding for a long time and that the time has come for it to come true, and that it will undoubtedly serve to put value to the most fit, the countless goodness we have on the Morrazo peninsula. [[Murmurs.]] Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Pérez Hernández. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da Maria Teresca Paz Franco, on the action to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the advertising and propaganda expenses made by the various bodies and entities of the public sector in Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u124	No amendments were tabled. To formulate it has the floor to Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that no amendments have been tabled, it certainly means that the text formulated by the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group will be adopted unanimously, and that they will be read so that all of their lordships will be able to see that this is something perfectly assumed by their simplicity: "We urge the Government to eliminate all advertising and propaganda expenses of different kinds made by the various public sector bodies and entities which are not required by procurement regulations or by the necessary information of public processes that require it." First of all, let me make an act of contrition: the Bipartite was not able to pass a law regulating institutional advertising, because when a bill was sent to this Parliament a bill was about to expire that VII legislation. But it is true that those who go out here on behalf of the People's Party will have to be imposed much more penance than on me, because the People's Party has been seven years, more than seven years, promising an institutional advertising law, and having passed those more than seven years, it has not yet been able to approve it, which, of course, converts the so spoken, so betrayed and carried democratic regeneration – which is one of the mantras that Mr. Feijóo repeats more commonly, said in his mouth – into pure empty rhetoric. The results of these commitments by the People's Party on democratic regeneration have not only given rise to a law of institutional advertising, but even the Transparency Act – we now know the Galician Union's transparency portal – is all less transparent. I am quite inept technological, but, of course, finding data on this particular subject, about the advertising and propaganda expenses of the Galician Union on that page is a genuine hatred. It's a pretty cool page, I, of course, don't know why we have a technology modernization agency, where we invest more than 96 million euros each year, if it doesn't even fit us to have a web page that's really accessible to information. Anyway, what I've done so far can be considered judgments, now we're moving on to the facts. And the fact is that this non-law proposal intends to come, in some way, to counter that systematic failure to meet the commitments of the Government of the People's Party, of Mr. Núñez Feijóo. I don't have time to name the number of times you've committed to passing an institutional advertising law, 2009 campaign, investment 2009; 2012 campaign 2012, investment 2012; state debate, successive debates of the state of the nation. But not only Mr. President, Mr. Rueda, always much more talkative and proclud to concretion on many occasions than Mr. Núñez Feijóo, came to say on 11 April 2014 to be more concrete, which was essential a law regulating institutional advertising to shield against non-democratic practices. In addition, he recognizes that non-democratic practices are carried out. And at that time, April 2011, it is promised that this law will enter this Parliament before the end of that legislation. A week later, in the First Committee of this Parliament, Mr Rodríguez Miranda, in a debate of an initiative – which, of course, voted against – similar to that of my colleague Mr Suárez Canal, also says that they commit themselves to the immediate entry into Parliament of this law. But also, if anyone was missing, Mrs. Prado, in a debate of a bill proposed by the Group of the BNG at the instances of the Association of the Yellow Media, in February 2015, she also said that they were still in time, that we were still half the legislation and that, of course, they would bring that law of institutional publicity. The truth is we're about to finish Mr. Núñez Feijó's second legislation and there's no law anywhere. We are therefore faced with an issue which, from the point of view of the Galician Nationalist Block, is a genuine subversion of democracy. We all know that the media plays an essential role in public activity, as they report – sometimes they misreport themselves – to the citizenry is, of course, a key element for setting up or creating a state of opinion. And we therefore believe that in a truly democratic system it is not indifferent to the kind of relationship between political power and the media, and that this relationship determines and reveals the quality of that democratic system. More at a time like the current one, for years now, but it is still like this today that we all know about the economic precariousness of all the media and how their workers are, precisely, the victims of that economic precariousness. We all know how most of the media would be practically impossible for them to survive without the existence of public aid. And, therefore, we all know that this is a perfect crop broth to establish what we could call – and I do not want to miss anyone, of course – perverse links between the media and political power. Evil links that besides many other considerations there are two very serious issues, which are that they would put at grave risk fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, the right to information and even press freedom. We therefore believe that it was essential to legally differentiate what is institutional advertising from what is propaganda. We believe that it would be essential, too, to establish objective mechanisms in the distribution of public aid to the media, in the distribution of advertising campaigns to end this discretion in which we are so far. I don't feel in a position to quantify how much resources the Galician Board spends a year on advertising and advertising, but we have a data that can object to it, which is that the Board of Auditors in its report says that every year only 1.7 million euros, which is 10% of the total; so we could be talking about that 17 million euros are divided into competitive competition. In other words, the remaining 90%, more than 15 million euros, is discreetly divided between the various media by the Administration. But it's also a disfunctionality that in a country that has a language of its own this criterion, that of the use of the Greek language, is not decisive in that division. But right now I wanted to focus especially on the need to clearly differentiate what is institutional advertising, as an instrument of relation of political power to citizenship in information, transmission of values and knowledge of new standards that generate obligations or rights, and what is pure and harsh propaganda. And as in many cases these three concepts may become propaganda, such as the institutional campaign of the Galician Union in relation to the referendum in Catalonia, which corresponded from the beginning to the zeta to the political position of the People's Party referred to in that case. I wanted to recall here as Mr. Rodríguez Miranda once said that the Galician Union had already reduced institutional advertising to a minimum and that it was only making institutional publicity in relation to blood donations, tourism and economic promotion. So I bring here a few examples that I would like to contrast with the Members of the People's Party. For example, it seems good to us that the Galician board, the Rural Council, spends EUR 350,000 a year on fire prevention campaigns, but we would like to know how it is justified to spend 550,000 on an institutional communication campaign to bring out the measures of the Rural Environment Council. Or that could be applied to the 230,000 euros last year, or to the 600,000 of the previous year of the Industry Council for the dissemination of content of interest to the Greek society.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u126	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u127	Or we'd like to know what the information or value transmission interest of this advertising campaign tells the unemployed and the stops in our country: "You'll be back at fifteen minutes of coffee, and you'll be upset to be touched by the alarm every morning." This, more than anything else – if I may – is a coat of hair and an insult to intelligence and the rights of both...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u128	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u129	...workers. And we could continue to put examples, such as a campaign that should theoretically make sense, such as the road safety campaign for children and children, but which is curious that a campaign is being held for children who are learning road safety, children who are five years old, and that campaign translates into putting advertisements into a written media. It is therefore a perversion in the use of public resources, and that is why we believe that democracy, justice and ethics should be approved and that public resources for advertising are unique and exclusively linked to those three areas in which they are...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u131	...unthinkable: public procurement, when required by European legislation or when there is really relevant information to transfer to them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u133	...to citizens in relation to the functioning of public services or administration. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u134	Thank you. The Joint Parliamentary Group has the floor to Mrs. Iglesias Sueiro.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u135	Thank you, President. Law 29/2005, on advertising and institutional communication, which regulates this type of practice, literally states: "You will not be able to promote or contract institutional advertising and communication campaigns aimed at highlighting management achievements or objectives." This mandate, in particular, is not met. The excessive use of institutional advertising in certain media is explained only in exchange for obtaining a favourable public opinion to the changing government at the expense of true and contrasted information, especially in electoral times. Institutional advertising has to be an instrument of dissemination, of information relevant to citizenship, in order to raise awareness of its rights, provide risks or protect its health, and not a tool for the government party's electoral interests at the expense of public money. The People's Party governments were able to carry out cuts in public spending with the intention of resolving the economic crisis and meeting the public deficit. He spoke of cuts in the salaries of public employees, the paralysis of investments in infrastructure, health and education. He spoke of the freezing of the minimum wage, of the public employment replacement rate, but no cuts were applied in a piece with no negligible weight in budgets, institutional advertising. This advertising can be subdivided into three categories: campaigns for the marketing of products, mainly services offered from the public sector, campaigns that highlight the achievements of the Government, i.e., the known commonly as autobomb, and campaigns to disseminate, promote and raise awareness. The law prohibits in its article 4 any campaign that aims to highlight achievements of management and objectives achieved and excludes that it has a commercial and commercial end. According to this, however, of the three types of advertising that I have listed before, only institutional advertising in the strict sense of the third could be considered, campaigns aimed at raising awareness and disseminating. On the other hand, the adjudication of budgets for this purpose is not covered by the Transparency Act. This makes it possible for this practice to be used as a form of pressure to reward media friends or to punish media little friends, occasionally drawing up prescriptions where the means of investing money appear. The poor economic situation that drags traditional media, attended by large companies, especially financial ones, is well known: ERE, strike, reduction of wages. Thus, public administrations use institutional information to bring large amounts and sums of money to them in exchange for favorable and polluting opinions. Therefore, public administrations are performing disguised rescues, as they have already explicitly done with the bank, in exchange for propaganda, manipulation and bias, bordering the express prohibition of the law at the beginning. Ultimately, institutional advertising is a parasitic expenditure that adds to the deficit and debt without any benefit to citizenship, rather the opposite, because a fundamental right as the right to true and objective information is seen to be controlled by governments, media powers and large companies in an attempt to maintain their status quo. We support this initiative for greater transparency and independence of the press and journalists who work. Thank you. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u136	Thank you, Mrs Iglesias. Mr. Ron Fernández has the floor for the Gaga de Left Alternative Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u137	Good morning to all and to all. Alternative Galga de Left will support the initiative, which relates to some that we present ourselves in this plenary or in the committees. We're talking... and then I contradict BNG's voicemail. Madam Peace, this initiative is not an assumption for the People's Party, because for the People's Party it does not want to eliminate propaganda costs because, as you all know, propaganda is the way it acquires the political lie, which inoculates the imagination of Galician society through, precisely, those policies of clientelism, policies of favors, which are acquired through the media, which are often turned upon to survive this way through these favors; for example, with that campaign that he was talking about giving money to the media so that they could make positive disclosure of the entrepreneurial action of the German Government. In the background, what we're watching is a misappropriation of public funds, because that's what we need to see; that's political propaganda, propaganda, it's a misappropriation of public funds and it's a lie and, of course, it's an ethical use of public resources. That is why we must recover the principles of truthfulness, transparency, ethics, legality, neutrality, non-discrimination, plurality, respect for the public good and, above all, with regard to citizenship, their right to true information and access to public services, which should serve primarily institutional and, of course, not institutional information for what is being used. And this is very closely related – and has already been mentioned by the BNG spokesman – to the law of transparency and good government. We here, in the discussion, would already talk about it being not the same good government as the electronic government, which is its only mantra, what you have, and above all mismanaged and mismanaged. You can observe perfectly how their transparency, the transparency of PP, the neoliberal transparency, is a pornographic transparency, it's a transparency that runs away from ethics. In this transparency portal we can see, since it is in force, contracts at fingertips, 87 smaller contracts every week, nearly 2 million euros awarded finger-free, in a way, in addition, that it is not sometimes possible to trace because contracts last on that web a week and then disappear, and it is not even possible to download documents or access all the information. And that appears to be deeply related, precisely, to the policy of buying favors that is done through the media, because often those minor contracts in advertising are precisely the media. We therefore argue that the President must comply with that announcement. 15-10-2013 announced the imminent arrival of the Institutional Advertising Bill Project in a debate of the state of the nation. Of course, we know that it is not the interest of the People's Party or the President or anyone else; when an end of legislation approaches, when the electoral time is approaching, logically, it is not the desire of the People's Party to renounce precisely what it will most favour its policy of lies to try to influence the imagination of a society that is thought to be asleep and that you think you can sleep it even more through bad information. We hope that citizenship will be smarter, read between lines and know how to access another type of information where it can wake up and whether it can free you from the flood of lies to which you are subjecting us day by day. From the Alternative Glaga de Left, therefore, we support the initiative of the BNG because, of course, we also support that proposal, a bill, which was registered on 24-9-2014, through the initiative of the Association of Media in Galicia, because it is a necessity. And by ethics – it has been said – we can rightly not allow governments, the Government of the PP, the Government of the right, to misuse the money of all the Greeks and all the Greeks for the sole benefit of their neoliberal ideas, which all they do is destroy the public good, the good of all of them. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u138	Thank you, Mr. Ron. The Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia has the floor to Mrs Soneira Tajes.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u139	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, at the moment that we are almost in the family, a joke. When the president was talking about all the cars coming out for a minute, I was reminding myself of what Mr. Balsairo had said here, in a debate, where he said that the MPs and the militants of the People's Party knew how to get away from the cars. And I have no doubt, but I have no doubt that, as Mr. President's story goes, you won't have to do it, because you're going to have to walk away from right-hand and sinister if you believe the propaganda – not the publicity – of Mr. President of the Board, because they're different things, although sometimes they seem to be the same and sometimes they also touch the profiles. And look, I have this comment with Mrs Paz and other distinguished Members and Members of this House, because we already have a certain age – in my biological case too – and a long time in here to not endure to sell us as a political debate which is nothing more than an anchor and a "speech" proper to an electoral campaign, because we are no longer for those things, frankly, and because we must also have it in this House. This is not only practiced with certain behavior in oral expressions, even in dress or even in certain positions, or in how they are outbound, but also in how things are discussed, and I suspect that here we're going back to the same as always, to have to listen to a sort of herring, because we're already in the process moment where we are. What does the Royal Academy say about what "advertising" means? A set of means that are used to disseminate or extend the news of things or facts. It also has another meaning that it speaks of the disclosure of commercial news or ads to attract potential buyers, spectators, users, etc. This is where the Government always welcomes itself. The propaganda he says? So the definition says: action and effect of getting to know something in order to attract followers and buyers. Unfortunately, I have the impression that all advertising of Galician Union is more propaganda than advertising. Why? Well, you see, today is not a good day to talk about this because yesterday some data that are terrifying came out; news of one of the most important newspapers in Spain and the first in Galicia as to the roll: "One in five homes lives under the threshold of poverty." "Charitas denounces that a job does not come out of poverty in Lugo." Caritas denounces the increase in poverty in Lugo. More poverty and inequality in the middle of the great recession." I could go on like this because there's to give and take. Red Cross, people affected by poverty... and makes a whole storytelling. The Region: "Ourense is the Galician city with more poverty and social exclusion". Vigo Lighthouse: "More than 670.00 Galicians are at risk of poverty." All of this may be a lie. It has to do with the initiative presented by the Galego Nationalist Block and that we will support it because it says there is advertising and that it must be done as a legal imperative, especially in certain European programmes where a part goes to that publicity – and then we will talk about it –. But you do, for example, recycling. They have a campaign that this is a tremendous thing, and it's okay, we have to advertise, but then we have amazing things: "Take care of yours; protect ours." This in all the media. What's all this for? Do you think it's advertising? You come to the absurdity of advertising holidays in Galicia, when yesterday too the report on living conditions and social exclusion says that more than 50% of the Greeks do not have the slightest chance of taking a week's holiday; because of legal imperative, when you receive the resources of European Union programs to advertise and encourage tourism, which is reasonable, which is common sense, and in the strict sense advertising is good for you to do it, but you don't do it where you have to catch tourists, you do it here, because you don't do it to capture tourism, you do it for the media to self-censorship...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u140	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u141	Yes, Madam, don't you mind because, look, if it wasn't for that, do you think it's reasonable in a democratic, homologable model that our president would follow a minute longer in front of the Galician Council, having a strange relationship with his friends as he has?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Soneira. Mr Tellado Filgueira has the floor for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Soneira, I have the feeling that the only ones who are here in the campaign are you, and, frankly, I see a lot of propaganda in those primarys, which in the end everything is summed up in that there's one who doesn't want to go and another who wants to come back. So that's all these primarys that you're so immersed in, and that's why they think Galicia's on an election campaign. No, Mrs. Soneira. Look, I celebrate this initiative – two days, Mr. Beiras – of the Galego Nationalist Block, which I don't understand is how they didn't take it to the institutions where they govern; I haven't seen them debate this initiative either in the Lugo Deputy or in the Coruña Deputy or in the councils where they govern. I suppose over the coming week this initiative will be taken to all these institutions. We, in any case, will be vigilant. Demagoxy is combined with data. How much is it spent today on institutional advertising in the Galician Union? Half as much as when he ruled the Bipartite; exactly 48% less than when he ruled the Bipartite. That's an objective fact, and from there we can talk. I have to tell you that all the campaigns of the current Council of Galicia are in line with the current regulations and are derived from an obligation that all public authorities have, which is to make the information of an institutional nature known. Therefore, the Union always develops advertising and not propaganda campaigns, as you repeatedly did when you were ruling in the Council of Galicia. I have the feeling that everything smells and nothing smells to them and therefore I can tell them is that in the last seven years they will not find a single campaign to highlight achievements of the management of this government and self-promotion, as if it happened at the previous stage. When planning an institutional campaign, the Galician Union meets the obligations laid down by the current legislation and, therefore, is guided at all times by principles of efficiency, transparency, austerity and efficiency. Look, we can't accept lessons from you when it comes to advertising and propaganda. We cannot accept lessons from the Socialist Party, because I have to remind you that at 90 days – three months – of the 2009 autonomous elections you spent 600,000 euros – direct adjudication, Mrs. Soneira – on a campaign to promote the Fisheries Council. We cannot accept lessons from parties that left the board leaving a hole in institutional advertising of more than 1 million euros in the Health Council. We cannot accept criticism from the Galician Nationalist Block because I have to remind you, Mrs. Paz, that campaign of fights, dolls, hats, keys, balloons, candy, paper bags... to promote Mr. Suárez Canal's Land Bank. That's propaganda. So, we, what do you want me to tell you? We can't accept lessons from that government that in 2008 at the Housing Council, which was headed by Mrs. Teresa Tables, spent 3.5 million euros on advertising to promote help to rent housing that was exactly a similar amount. They spent as much advertising as they tried to advertise. So, of course, then it's understood that there was a hole of 40 million euros left in that council. You talk about advertising and propaganda. We know exactly what advertising is and what propaganda is: in 2006, "Galicia, we are power" – propaganda –; in 2006, "Here we are, walking together."; year 2006, Galicia, promoting on July 25. You know what happened these years? That when the Galagas Letter Day was celebrated or celebrated on July 25 – I went on to teach them pages while I speak – the Galician Board did not insert an institutional announcement, it advertised seven, by seven councils or autonomic departments. That, you're right, it's not advertising, it's propaganda, and that's what happened all these years. We actually couldn't go to the transparency portal looking for this data, because you didn't have a transparency portal. Today you can know the publicity of the Galician board, everything is on the transparency portal, everything is done through completely transparent adjudication procedures. At the time, no, but what you did, what power and what Galicia was a power, and independence, all this is in the hemerotheques, pests of pages that speak of all that. [[Applause]] Therefore, Mrs. Peace, we cannot accept lessons of any kind. We spent half of what you used to teach propaganda on institutional advertising; therefore, again, I have the feeling that everything smells of you and nothing smells of them, but the reality is what it is. You insist, in addition, on an idea, that in Galicia media be purchased through advertising pages...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u144	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u145	...and I have to tell you that this insinuation that is made from the Galician Nationalist Block, and that has also been done from the Socialist Party and from AGE, is an attack on the professionalism of journalists working in our country. In Galicia no media is bought with advertising, because in Galicia no media is on sale, and I tell you, I am not an shareholder of any media; I believe, Mrs. Peace, that you are. In any case, in Galicia we have independent press, we have media where they work true professionals and, of course, I do not want this debate to be used to question the professionalism of journalists and the independence of the media in Galicia. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u146	Thank you, Mr. Tellado. For the initiative's own group, Mrs. Paz Franco has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Tellado, in any case, if I insinuated that you used public money to buy news, I didn't mean journalists, but rather, the editors, and when those shares in the CNN group give dividends, because I'll already share with you, don't worry. Look, you literally said in your speech that your government didn't use a euro of public money to advertise government achievements. Can anyone explain to me the "Zero Taxes in Rural" campaign that took place during the month of November of last year, in the election campaign, when neither the Accompaniment Act nor the Budget Law in this Parliament had yet been passed, and when there was virtually no substantial change in the taxes that were changed in that law, which is propaganda or institutional information? How much did you spend on that campaign? How much would you expect the potential recipients to save? And by the way, speaking of taxes, you could tell me that it was worth informing people that there was going to be a tax reduction. Oh, man, of course! Well, they're taking a long time to run an institutional campaign to inform you of the catastration. They could inform people of the blow they're going to put in their pockets with the "catastration," because, in addition, they could actually inform them of their obligations to prevent them from imposing sanctions on them. Transparency. Look, Mr Tellado, the Galician Tourism Agency only in the last month, in the last two months – no need to go further – has helped with negotiated procedures without advertising more than 6 million euros. That's transparency! That's transparency! Funny, because in a campaign for May bridges, 439,000 euros. Curious! Indeed, as Mrs. Soneira said, only in the Greek media. Good way to promote the capture of foreign tourism! Holy Week campaign, 450,000, idem. But the curious thing is that the Galician Tourism Agency has even hired for 125,000 euros an advertising campaign of the agency's activity, it's not going to be that we don't know everything the Head of the Galician Tourism Agency does. And look, Mr. Tellado, you're fading yourself. The best thing that could be done with regard to advertising by the Galician Board is that at the end of 2015 you spent 70,000 euros doing an investigation and reports on the effectiveness of Galician board's advertising campaigns. It would be to see if, indeed, all this propaganda has some kind of political income for its party. To me, of course, with this background, with all the data we have, and especially those we don't have because they're hidden, it's not strange that you don't want to approve this initiative, because you prefer...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u148	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u149	...to continue in that perverse system of spending all the money they need to buy all the wills they need. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Emilio Vázquez Blanco and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the book and library sector
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u151	Two amendments will be tabled to this motion for a non-law, one from the Joint Parliamentary Group and one from the Parliamentary Group on the Galician Nationalist Block.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u152	Mr. Vázquez Blanco has the floor to formulate the non-law proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u153	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you. It is appropriate that today, in the first plenary session following the celebration of Gallegal Letters Day, we discuss an initiative that speaks precisely about the impetus of the book sector in Galicia, because after all the commemorative events in the memory of the beloved Manuel Maria and the celebration of the Day of Our Letters, it is also necessary to take advantage of what is the situation of the book and to make policies that serve to promote this sector, because despite the transformations that are suffering our format, as well as the process of editing, and which have implications for the whole cultural system, the book remains a fundamental object for culture. But it is also appropriate for us to talk about this today because only a few days ago the Government of Greece announced in Commission 4th, the Map of libraries in Galicia, of which we are also talking on this initiative. As we have already said on many occasions, over the past few years the book and library sector has suffered one of the biggest budget cuts on the part of the Galician Union; on the other hand, that the rest of the cultural departures, but this happened just at a time when the crisis made the level of sales back to the level of twenty years ago, causing damage in a sector as referencel as this. We have to point out that the data indicate that between 2008 and 2014 there has been a steady fall in sales and literary production in Galicia, and even though in 2014 there has been a slight improvement, with current prospects, it is impossible to recover the levels of the year. As stated by the Galaga Editors Association, between 2008 and 2014 there was a steady drop in sales and production, although in 2014 the loss situation was slightly reversed and the joint billing increased by 3%. In 2015, although it hasn't been finally closed, the figures seem to be very similar. According to the ISBN data, 2,877 books were published in Galicia in 2014, which I assumed 383 books more than in 2013, being the first time that the number of books has increased since 2010, as happened, by the way, throughout the state. Without a doubt, it's a positive fact, although we have to insist that it's still far from the 2009 or 2010 figures, for example, and so even if we celebrate this little rebound, we have to focus on the way to regain the level of the year. Although in the first edition figures, both in Galicia and Spain, there is some stability, in the translated books we find ourselves with a very low figure, almost half of the year 2007, which is of greater importance if we consider that even in the years of bonanza the figure was already the light years of the figures that, for example, has Catalonia. By handing out the report of the Galician Culture Council on the book and the edition in Galicia, we can see how books translated into Greek have fallen considerably in the period 2008-2013, after increasing by 30.5% between 2008 and 2010, and have been decreasing in the following years, to the lowest figure of the entire period analyzed. We have to say that this figure fell by 69.5% compared to 2010. And we must also point out, as the report indicates, that in public production, contrary to what is happening in Spain as a whole, in the Galician community continues the downward trend of the edition, while in Spain as a whole it remains stable. In fact, it should be noted that in 2007 the figure was 33% and in 2014 the figure was 7.1%. As for the data on the number of books published in English, it must be noted that it fell by 28.6 % in the period 2008 to 2014, with a loss of around 700 titles. And according to official figures, the number of books published in English is 61.3 of the total books with ISBN published in Galicia, which is far from 67.3 in 2008. But there is a figure that summarizes the whole above, which is the number of books published in English, which goes from 2,472 in 2008 – the year in which the analysis made by the Galician Culture Council Report begins – until 1,426, which is the figure of 2013, with a clearly downward trend each year. And analyzed by matter, we can observe that it has a similar trend in all of them, being very worrying in the case, for example, of textbooks of teaching and education, which are reduced to half. As for the business activity of the entire publishing sector, Galicia has ranged over the last six years between the 345 companies accounted for in 2009 and the 351 in 2014, although it is important to highlight the fall suffered from 13 to 14. However – because we also have to talk about this – about the employment generated by these companies, it is found that the editorials of the Galician Editors Association lost almost 100 jobs in the period 2009-2013, which means a 35% reduction in employment in five years. But between January 2011 and January 2015 it must be regretted that in 518 the number of memberships to Social Security in publishing jobs and graphic arts fell. And with regard to libraries – as I said before – the Secretary General of Culture announced last week the library map, an announcement that suddenly did not happen, but that in addition – we said the other day – is a clear violation by the Government of the Greek Library Law, which passed alone in 2012, because the law itself, specifically in the second additional provision, clearly states that the library map will be approved within a maximum of six months since the entry into force of this law; a law that is June 2012, that is to say, they let all legislation pass without doing anything about it in order to comply with at least what marks the law. But, in the absence of data from the map and taking into account the data from the INE and the report from the Galician Culture Council also referred to libraries and published in March 2016, we can conclude that Galicia has 497 libraries, taking up seventh position in the state set, which means that the number of libraries in Galicia has fallen, since in 2008 there were 550. Therefore, the number of libraries has been steadily reduced in recent years, and so, from the 550, as I say, there were in 2008, we went to 522 in 2010, 505 in 2012 and 497 today. But also, given the timetables, we have to point out that only 122 remain open more than 40 hours a week, and most of them – which are 258 – open between 20 and 48 hours a week and 76 are open between 10 and 20 hours, while another 41 are public access less than 10 hours a week. And of course, at this point we need to highlight the significant budget drop that has experienced in recent years all the games related to libraries, acquisitions and investments in general in this field, which have been reduced by 78% in the last ten years. According to INE data, in 2014 the Greek libraries added a total of 9,800,000 visits, which means 1 million less than in 2012 and 2 million below the 2008 data, which was 11,890,000. And in spite of this, what has grown was the number of books borrowed by the Greek libraries, from 2.5 million copies registered in 2008 to 2.9 million registered in the 14th, so the number of loans increased by almost 20% in six years. Manuel Rivas wrote a few years ago that there are no entities, not even sports, that have as many associates as public libraries in proportion. In fact, more than 1 million Welsh and Welsh – specifically 1,023,000 – are partners and partners of some of these entities, representing 38% of the population, although it is lower than the rest of the Spanish population, where 47% of the population is registered in a library, so it is a figure far higher than the Greek figures; and equal to the relative number of visits in the room, 4.4 per inhabitant, compared to 3.6 in Galicia. However, data such as data offered by the Ministry's Cultural Habits Survey show that since 2007 there has been a remarkable increase in the number of people who went to a public library once a year, from 13.4% to 18.6, although again it has to be said that figures at the Spanish level are something higher, around 22.7%. The Government of Galicia has sold that this year was the year of recovery and expansion of budgets, and the great advance in investment in the book sector – widely announced to bomb and dish – constituted an increase of 40,000 euros in the game dedicated to the animation of reading, from 200,000 to 240,0. However, they remain stagnant splits such as "promotion of the edition of the book in Welsh" or "promotion of the book of reading" or "the fairs of the book". In 2009 the promotion of the edition of the book in Greek received 1.1 million euros and for the acquisition of bibliographic funds there were 2.4 million euros, more than four times more than now. And this provision for the acquisition of bibliographical funds continued to be reduced from EUR 2.4 million to EUR 560,000 for 2016, which is still under EUR 40,000 compared to last year. And of course, logically this has consequences on Galicia's editorial production, so at present we believe that it is necessary to give the editorial sector a boost to get out of the situation in recent years. And for that, institutional collaboration is needed, to ensure the future of the publishing industry in Galicia. As stated in a recent interview the current president of the Association of Editors of Galicia, Laura Rodríguez, the quality of the book in Welsh is outstanding, but we need help. That is why from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialists of Galicia we have tabled this non-legislative proposal to, through demands from the sector itself, promote measures which have already led us to reverse this situation, and which we hope the People's Party will have to support, even if at this point I am allowed to host doubts rather than founded. But what we're asking for in this initiative is, firstly, to boost the purchase of funds for libraries, reaching investment levels that reverse the declining evolution of the investment suffered in recent years; as I said, we've gone from 2.4 million to 566,000, more than four times less. And, on the other hand, to develop, through the public media, campaigns to promote reading that potentiate the consumption of Greek literature, because it is undoubtedly through the public media where we must promote cultural content that serves as a showcase for our creators. And finally, to encourage the sale of the book in Greek, through proposals such as good culture, something we have asked on repeated occasions to help alleviate the effect of 21% cultural EVI, which continues to drown our culture, without the government of the PP being worthy of rectification. We believe that these are concrete, possible and, of course, necessary measures. We don't want to be catastrophic. There is undoubtedly positive data, but it is also true that if we do nothing – we cannot be deceived – we will not recover the lost land. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u154	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez Blanco. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u155	Thank you, President. Good morning to all and to all. The book is a treasure, the book is a source of transmission for the dissemination of written culture, to allow all people who access it through reading learning, publishing support, libraries, libraries and schools. The book is a strategic sector, not only in economic terms, but also in the field of citizen coexistence, the cultural, educational and socio-economic importance of role. And they don't run well for the book, and less for the book in English, which, as part of the industrial and cultural fabric, has suffered the consequences of the crisis and has not been properly supported since June. The sector in the last year has suffered a general drop in sales of between 30 and 40 percent. The sector's adaptation to model changes that mean the Internet and fighting against low reading rates are other major challenges facing it, either in paper or in digital format. The edition of the book in Greek loses again investment in the past, of 80,000 euros, and remains about 348,860 euros. According to the study by the Galician Council of Culture, in 2014 Galicia published 383 books more than in 2013, which means an increase of 15.4%. This is important, because for the first time the number of books enrolled in the ISBN in Galicia is increased, especially because we started to go to indexes around the year 2004. And it's funny, isn't it, in a sector that has very little institutional support, that Galicia occupies sixth place in the state as a whole in the number of books inscribed in the ISBN. To say that, instead of the format, it still dominates the paper format, representing 73.6% of the books published in English in 2014. The bulk of publishing activity in the Galician Community is carried out by small businesses, and we are talking about the private edition subject to 91.9 % of the entire edition of books in Greek. Direct support for editorial production also keeps the EUR 210,000, as well as the money for the purchase of library books, which remain EUR 600,000 after the fall of recent years. And in an animated reading campaign because we're talking about continuistic accounts again, because it doesn't go from 210,000 euros. In this field only the starting point to support the editing of teaching materials in our language is slightly increased, but still insufficient, from EUR 150,000 to EUR 170,000 this year. 56,000 euros are also maintained for cultural dissemination and publications and more than 250,000 cultural training and dissemination activities. It is also true that the public libraries in Galicia continue to experience reductions in budgets, cuts that mainly affect purchases of new books and other materials. And we're still talking about the decline in acquisitions in 2.6 million euros between 2012 and 2014 in Galicia, to be 10.4 million, the lowest figure since 2006. And to this we also have to add the book loan canon, which continues to penalize the municipalities to pay this fee, and also that in the last three budgets submitted by the Government of Greece it comes up if it continues to reduce, by EUR 560,000 in 2016. And we've continued to reduce the number of libraries in recent years and also keeps decreasing the number of visits made. Yes, it's true that it attracts attention, isn't it?, that more than 1 million citizens are partners of this kind of entity and that even the number of books provided in public libraries has grown from 2.5 million copies in 2008 to 2.9 million in 2014. And this obviously, well, you've got several readings, haven't you, since the crisis or the fact that you can't buy books, magazines, newspapers. If we say that in the state as a whole, let's say, we do not stand out for anything, for having the best average of visits in public libraries per inhabitant, or the best average of documents, or the best average of acquisitions, or of partners per inhabitant, or of current spending by the Administration. Nor do we take into account the geographical characteristics: there are still 57 municipalities where there are no public libraries, in the neighborhoods of the cities, or in the parishes of the rural municipalities, especially rural, the great forgotten. That is why I am presenting an amendment to add to the first point, because it is understood that we must apply measures of positive discrimination to the support of the writers and writers in English, from the printed editions of works in German and from the translations of literary and scientific works in other languages of new acquisitions. And I also add, because I think it is very important: "to coordinate activities, including the different public administrations, the academic world, the school community, the private company and civil society, as well as to determine the typology of potential participants and to include librarian services in health centers, hospitals and other centers." And, on the other hand, also another point, which would be number 5, which would be: "To attend collectives with difficulties, immigrant people, older people, people with disabilities and even people with disabilities in prison for access to the book and reading, in collaboration with non-profit associations, NGOs and public institutions," because I understand that we must incite the reading and use of the book. There's a lot of people who probably never in their life will put a foot in the library. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. Mr. Pombo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u157	Thank you, President. Good morning, gentlemen. Good morning to those of you who visit us here in Parliament. On behalf of the BNG Parliamentary Group, Mr Vázquez Blanco, I must also say that I share your concern, firstly because of the need to give a strong impetus to the publishing sector, particularly the book in English, at most this month of May. I also share your concern about the need to promote the acquisition of bibliographical funds, particularly in English, in order to provide what is worthy of the Greek public libraries. And that's why BNG will support this non-law proposal, because both the book sector and the library sector have obviously suffered a very serious budget cut during Mr Feijóo's time. In 2009 budget shares for these sectors were four times higher than those for the current 2016. As much as they repeat that 2016's budgets are those of recovery and that's an expansive budget, that's not real. And it's only enough with several examples. The Culture Budget of June 2009, 141 million euros; the 2016 budget, 61; nothing more and nothing less than 79 million euros less, a cut of 56%. And if we're going to the promotion sector of the Greek book, in 2009 there were 1.1 million euros and today there's not even 350,000. If we're talking about the acquisition of bibliographical funds in 2009, 2.4 million euros, and in the current year it doesn't reach 560,000 euros, therefore four times less, less than one quarter. And if we talk about linguistic normalization, from 21 million euros in 2009 we go down to less than 7 million euros today. The reality is that the Italian edition loses 40% of its jobs at the time Feijóo, reduces the acquisition of editorial novelties by 65%, reduces 75% the edition of teaching material in the German language, the IVE, of tipon, by 21%, and imposes a cannon on public libraries that goes against their own libraries, and makes it a lower investment. Ladies and gentlemen, the BNG Parliamentary Group defends the book and library sector in this time of crisis, which should be promoted, never cut, by public budgets; cuts that cause the impoverishment of Galicia's cultural life just as much as needed. BNG understands that libraries and the book sector are fundamental services and that's why we support the promotion of bibliographical funds, in particular the new editions in English that can reach libraries in the same year of its edition. And that's why we tabled an amendment that I hope the rapporteur will accept. We also tabled an amendment because we understand that the possibility of training in the libraries themselves, the dissemination of culture and the promotion of reading is important. In that sense, we think that public libraries should be exempted from the payment of the cannon per user. And that's why we also tabled an amendment in this respect. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we understand that, after the cut of more than 40% at the time of Feijóo, it is not to be accepted that the Galician Library Law contemplates the freezing of more than four years of the funds devoted to libraries. And let me give an example: in the aid for this year contains, first, that 42% of the inhabitants of Galicia are without promotion, and for the rest, there are some aids ranging from 25 cents per inhabitant to less than 5 cents per inhabitant. So, of course, culture cannot be supported, nor can the book sector be supported. I'm done saying we're going to support this non-law proposal that promotes libraries, that promotes the purchase of bibliographic funds, that promotes reading, that promotes the sale of more books. I hope that they will accept the amendment of the BNG, which seeks to ensure that the new editorials in English arrive in the same year at the public libraries and also that public libraries can be exempted from a prejudicial canon. And waiting for them to accept our amendments, we express our support once again. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u158	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. For the Parliamentary Group of the Gaga de Left Alternative, Mr. Ron.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u159	Good morning, again, all of you. The Gaga de Left Alternative will support the initiative that brings the PSdeG. In addition, it is an initiative that we have already discussed and discussed with Mr. Anxo Lorenzo's presence in committee, where he came to speak, without talking, of the map of libraries in Galicia, and where, curiously, we could find out that there were 57 municipalities in Galicia that did not have library services; that is, 57 municipalities where Greeks and Greeks did not see their right to information, their right to access culture through books, through libraries. It must be remembered that what is missing from the Greek executive, what is missing from the ruling group, the People's Party, is a clear diagnosis of what is happening today, a diagnosis that is derived from the "austerity" policies that have been carried out all these years – two laws – Mr. Feijóo. And so we have as the public edition of books in Welsh has eroded itself – it has become very degraded in numbers – as the edition of books in Greek has decreased, as the help to public libraries so that they can acquire editorial news has not ceased to descend, as between 2008 and 2013 the help to translation has decreased by 70%, as has decreased the editing of teaching materials or as jobs have been lost in the world related to the book sector, the publishing sector, the library sector. And at all, in a context of permanent cuts, visible in budgets through the 432A program, dedicated to libraries, archives and museums, or in the 151A program, which is promoted to the Welsh language, or in the 423A program, where the help is offered to the school libraries, if one checks what has happened over the years, it is a devalence or freezing; nothing, of course, that allows us to get out of the well where we have been immersed the austerity policy on the right. That's why we remember very well that we are presenting here an initiative on the third point with a proposal such as the bonus-culture that helps to palliate the aspect of the 21% cultural IVE. We will defend an initiative of bond-culture that had two modalities. Because it's not about the bono-culture that the People's Party, like a vampire, has taken very well, the plan of the Greek cinema and the plan of the bono-culture. There he perfectly sucked, vamped, the AGE initiatives after saying no commission, of course. So, the bond-culture is about designing it and thinking about it well, so we said that it needed a decree, a law, for the acquisition and enjoyment of culture or the bond-culture, through two modalities, a destabilized one, for the current use throughout the year, and another that could be a mode of seasonal use for the campaign of Christmas or for the week of the Greek letters, where positive discrimination measures were incorporated for cultural products in Greek, which are the ones that, within this austere culture practiced by the People's Party, more suffered. And then logically we made a record of different aspects of what that law of culture should count on so that it would be a good law to comply with the right of access to culture, to facilitate that right of access to culture, which must be the Union of Galicia which guarantees it above all. Of course, what the Galician Union must not do is to be condescending with that canon to municipalities of more than 5,000 inhabitants, where those who go out penalized are the municipalities themselves, users and, above all, libraries that are affected by this canon for lending books, which is deeply harmful to the right of access to culture, the right of access to education. Because that's the fundamental social work that libraries do. Finally, what we have is a whole picture of what the People's Party has immersed us in its austerity, austere dynamics, and, of course, that's why we are going to defend the initiative brought by the Socialist Party of Galicia, because it coincides with the work carried out by the Alternative Left Galega for all these years. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ron. For the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Baamonde.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u161	Well, thank you very much, Mr. President, and very good morning, gentlemen. Greetings also to the people who attend this session. The fact is that the Socialist Group today brings the debate to an initiative that seemed interesting in its statement, but which, obviously, seeing its content, loses all the preaching because it is reduced exclusively to the old tenet of the Socialist Party with the cuts. To reduce the problems of the book sector and also from libraries to the issue of the acquisition of bibliographical funds and not to make a deeper diagnosis – although some of the speakers of the opposition groups have tried to do so – Mr. Vázquez, a little idea is under way. It is true that the publishing sector has problems, and serious problems, some of them resulting from the general crisis situation. But there are also others who are associated with the sector's own situation. We could talk about this for a long time, but let me highlight two of them. One is the bell of the times. Some say it's less read now and, moreover, it's wrong. I don't know if it's true. It seems to read more, what happens is that it is read in 144 characters. Read on twitter, read on facebook, read on social networks. It may, as some say, mean reading it wrong. I already said Confucius that reading without meditating is a useless occupation. But it's an obvious trend. And it is no coincidence that the very notorious increase in virtual visits to librarian centers is taking place, especially in the catalogue chapter and digitized funds. It is also a problem of the editorial sector, endemic problem in many cases of the sector in Galicia, atomization. There are more than forty editorial stamps, which, logically, are affected by the tough competition rules that set giants of the distribution, for example Amazon or Google. That is why, Mr Vázquez, we understand that we must work to overcome this crisis in the book sector, also in the libraries, but, leaving aside the question that if we are in agreement with the promotion – by the way, the Council of Galicia devoted nearly a million euros to this work last year, leaving aside also the question of the cultural IVE, which has been discussed here many times and which is a competence of the central administration – it must be said that the solution you propose does not bring anything positive to the resolution of this problem. They talk repeatedly about clippings. I'm not going to enter the cause of the cuts, but if I'm going to remind you of that old saying of "invited John of Romeo and the wine I paid for it." You cause the problems and then you wait for others to solve them, what we had to do. And maybe we won't keep our promises. But as Gladstone, that British politician at the beginning of the last century, said, we're probably doing -- some of them are already doing -- a lot of what you've done. Mr. Vázquez, and Mr. Ron too, rationalization of expenditure is not an exclusive problem of the Galician Union, it is a problem of other autonomous communities, and also a problem of the state, the problem of other administrations. And when it comes to criticizing the cuts, they are, of course, on the perfect right to do so, but in order to criticize you, you have to have credibility. And to be credible, we have to preach with the example. Mr. Vázquez, I'll give you two examples where you don't preach with the example, one is the municipal administration of Lugo. Today in the media the reference to the Piringalla library, a magnificent structure that has been unfinished for four years, but which despite this receives in municipal budgets an appropriation of 50,000 euros for the purchase of books in a library that does not exist. If that is proper administration of funds, for God will come and see it. And in the case of the auditorium, you promised it and we had to do it ourselves. Now that they deliver it – a magnificent building – they complain that they have no funding for the staffing, and they also complain that they have no funding for the operation. To say one thing and to do another does not represent credibility of any kind. The resolution of the editorial sector does not depend, Mr Vázquez, on the acquisition of bibliographical funds or cuts, it has far deeper causes that require a serious, serene and responsible diagnosis. We need diagnosis, we need planning. And by the way, in the library sector, that planning really comes from the hand of the library map that you lied about, whose lines Masters explained in the past appearance the Mr. Secretary General of Culture. And by the way, it's not a virtual reality, it was adopted at the last meeting held by the Council of the Council of Galicia, and I suppose it will be immediately at the disposal of the groups. That map, Mr. Vázquez, I contradicted some of the things you say here. For example, when it comes to the acquisition of bibliographic funds, one of the potentialities of libraries is precisely the provision of funds. 97% of Galician libraries have a suitable staffing capacity, only 3% are below the standards.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u162	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u163	And the same is true of opening works, where all libraries approach 100%. So we can't accept your initiative, because it's nothing but political opportunism. It only proposes a patch for the solution of a much deeper global problem and does not solve anything at all. Mrs. Fernández began her initiative with a reference to the book. Let me also finish with an old Hindu proverb: "An open book is a talking brain; closed, a friend waiting; forgotten, a soul that forgives; destroyed, a heart that weeps." Mr. Vázquez, closed book, crying heart, is Spanish and Galician society attending the voraxine...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u164	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u165	...of the Socialist Party. Think more of yourself, think less...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u166	Thank you, Mr. Baamonde, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u167	...in other people's problems, and probably in that direction they'll get much better. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u168	Thank you. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mr. Vázquez Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u169	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the support of the Alternative Gaga de Left and the approaches of the Mixed Group and the BNG. We will accept the amendments tabled because we believe that they complement and add actions that seem positive to us. On the one hand, it seems to us that measures are being applied for the benefit of the Greek writers and writers, the printed and digital editions and the translation into English, as well as the inclusion of librarian services in health centres or hospitals and, of course, care for those who have difficulty in accessing the book and reading. On the other hand, it also seems positive to us that it is ensured that the editorial news in English will arrive in the same year of its publication to libraries, as well as a theme that seems fundamental to us, and to what Mr. Pombo referred to, is that the public libraries in Galicia may be exempted from the payment of the fee per user which contemplates the Royal Decree 624/2014. We have to regret once again, even if it doesn't surprise us, everything has to be said, the position of the People's Party, which continues to ignore reality and, worse still, intends to continue condemning our country's culture to marginalization. Mr. Baamonde, I'm sorry for making proposals. They're the ones doing the sector. I'm telling him because they do. This is always better than what you guys do, which is nothing. You always justify crop cuts saying you had to cut the whole budget, but not all the matches were reduced by 40%, as did the culture. I know it's hard to defend him, but the relative budgetary weight has been halved since you govern. That's what makes your policy. Of course, Mr Baamonde, politics have consequences. As much as they insist on denying it, the figures are what they are. Since you rule, 56% less budget in culture. Mr. Baamonde, you speak of diagnosis. I gave the same data you gave the other day to the Secretary General of Culture, which are the ones provided by the INE. From master lines of the map, nothing, nothing at all; with four years of delay when the law marked that there were six. In 2009, promotion and edition of the book in English: 1.1 million euros; acquisition of bibliographical funds: 2.4 million. More than four times now. The sales of the book in Galicia: retrofitting at levels 20 years ago. Edit digits: Despite a small reticence, far from the 2009 figures. Figures of books translated into Greek: they decreased by 69.5% compared to 2010. There is a downward trend in public edition: in 2007, 33%; in 2014, 7.1%. Number of books published in English: 28.6% fall, with a loss of about 700 titles. Number of books published in English: 61.3%, far from 67.3%, which I had in 2008. And the number of books goes from 2,482 in 2008 to 1,426 you have now. There are 518 less people affiliated with Social Security in publishing and graphic arts. As for libraries, as I said before, we went to Galicia from 550 libraries to 497 that we have now. Not to mention the distribution of aid to public libraries, which leave out more than 30,000 municipalities; therefore, they exclude 42% of the population, in addition to having almost ridiculous amounts ranging from 500 euros to 2,000. You continue with your fear of relegating culture to the last priorities of your government, and we regret that you do not want to support the measures of impulse. You don't want us to be catastrophic. Well, if you expect things to change when you see rain, I'll tell you what's going to happen: nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u170	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez Blanco. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the reprogramming of appointments for oncologic review consultations in the Organizational Structure of Integrated Management of Santiago de Compostela, as well as the functioning of the computer programme of prescription pharmaceutical Silicon
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u171	This motion for a non-legislative amendment was tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group and by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u172	To formulate the non-law proposal has the floor to Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u173	Very good day again. At the end of this month of April 2016, a sick, cancer-sick patient, belonging to the Integrated Compostela Management Organization Structure, contacted the Nationalist Block of Wales to transfer to us who had made a change of appointment to the CHUS for several months later than he had originally. He showed us his concern, because he was an oncology patient who had to follow up on his illness and he didn't understand how he was going to be almost two years without medical control. He also showed his indignation that these things were happening. I didn't understand how it was possible for a sick person with cancer to be prescribed by his specialist for a fixed period of time to be given nearly twice that time. And he also asked us to do something, to report it and to make it public, because he, when he had heard that there were waiting lists in Sergas didn't matter so much, until it was the object of that situation. What he did was move us to the dates that Sergas had given him, and, in this way, he gave us the print where on May 12, 2015, a year ago, they gave him an appointment on Tuesday, May 10, 2016, quote for medical oncology at Santiago University Clinic Hospital. We also got the following print, which makes Sergas easy, where on March 16, 2016 they give him a new appointment for May 10, 2016... No, that of May 10, 2016 will happen to May 11, 2016. They're dragging him one day to date, a change that's not relevant. And it makes us get the printed object of their concern and outrage, where April 8, 2016, he's changed his appointment for May 11, 2016, and he's released on May 18, 2017. Eight months later. I mean, he asked for the appointment on May 12, 2015 and he's going to meet with his specialist to follow up his oncological disease for January 2017. Of course, it was this way that public opinion jumped the situation of delays in the CHUS oncology service. It was in this way that since the BNG we wanted to report what was going on and we found ourselves – professional questions of this service and contacted other patients – that in the last five years the staff picture of this oncology service has not increased, despite having significantly increased the number of patients; with which, if the number of patients increases, the first consultations are increased and then the subsequent consultations that have to follow these affected people are increased. I believe that no one escapes to know that oncology is a long process, a process of testing, of controls, of constant follow-up over many years. That's how, in fact, we found out and we became aware that Compostela's EOXI oncology service has been working at the limit for years, while pathologies are increasing, while the complexity of these pathologies has only increased, where we are informed that oncology consultations are systematically crowded and where we also receive the complaint from professionals, who tell us that the implementation of the pharmaceutical prescription program called Silicon is a computer tool purchased from a private company, purchased from multinational Grifols for nearly 500,000 euros for a period of two years. It's a quantity of certainly nothing despicable considering that professionals from Galicia's own public health system had designed a drug treatment program with their own resources and thought of clinical performance, designed for clinical performance, to improve the attention of sick people, and not like this computer tool dependent on that private company, designed for the management of the hospital pharmacy. So we've been informed, it's a useful tool for the control of the hospital pharmacy, for the control of drugs, but it's certainly not useful, very bureaucratic, very far-sighted, for the clinical care of both the faculty and the nursing staff. Clearly, if the early diagnosis, the follow-up of a disease, it is important, in the case of people with cancer, it is verified that it is essential. If you don't get that attention in time and time, what happens? First, there is fear, anguish, concern, and lack of confidence among patients in the system. Which, of course, is in itself a very bad news. And then what happens is risk, multiplication of the risk that in those long periods you can produce relapses that are not detected to be able to act on time. Clearly, a patient in this situation increases his distress. Meanwhile, BNG's complaint is followed by the complaint of SOS Public Health from Compostela County, the complaint from the CHUS Association of Patients and Users and the complaint from the Ombudsman of the Patient, who sends a letter to the Supreme Prosecutor of Justice of Galicia demanding that he act the Prosecutor's office. He says that in the face of these delays, there may be a suspected crime against public health. They claim that this involves endangering quality of life and healing, since cancer patients should be scrupulously reviewed. This is why the BNG presented this initiative where we demand, in the first term, that all the necessary actions be carried out so that the oncotoxic patients of Compostela's EOXI to whom the review consultations were rescheduled for months later will have the same on the originally scheduled dates. I have to say that this first request from the Galician Nationalist Block in principle is being resolved. We think it's a patch, we think it's a patch. The information we have is that four afternoon consultations for oncology have been enabled and that the patients who were quoted for 2017 are being seen. I mean, if there was a problem. Because what was Sergas' reaction to this complaint? First, as he always does, deny it. What Sergas did first was to deny that there was this problem, he denied that there was the problem. Until he got out of public opinion, until the media echoed, until there was a social alarm again. Until then, they denied the subject. At this point, there seem to be four afternoon consultations to meet the patients quoted for the year 2017. We believe that this situation, of course, is a palliative, necessary but palliative measure, because it does not solve the underlying problem. It doesn't solve the underlying problem, which is the shortage of professionals enough to meet the demand in the oncology service. And we believe that the other two parts of the initiative are fully in force: increasing the professionals of the EOXI oncology service of Compostela in the precise number to meet the existing care pressure in it, and also what we demanded and what we denounced in our initiative, which is that with the implementation of this program it has slowed down to a great extent the time needed to attend the consultations. What professionals tell us is that they double the time needed to attend these consultations. That's why we demand that this program be withdrawn, that we develop one of Sergas' own. There's already a program done by professionals, but it's up to date, that you do what needs to be done, because it's a program that's designed for clinical attention and for the sake of professional work. We expect the support of the House's groups because it is serious that this situation has occurred, it is serious that cancer patients have gone through the anguish of seeing them not being treated, as they were asked and given them for months later, as were the Attention to the Patient and told them that the problem was that there were not enough oncology professionals to assist them. It's already a gravity, but it's more serious because it turns out that Sergas, the People's Party in the Government of Galicia, is a recurrence. He's doing an act again that can be described as a crime against public health, as they've done with the treatment of hepatitis C patients.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u174	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u175	...and rectify, in this case, making a patch. That is why the demands we make on this initiative seem to us to be totally invigorating and we look forward to voting in favour of the groups of this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. Joint Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u177	Thank you, President. Since it couldn't be otherwise, the Joint Group will support the non-law proposition of the BNG. To say that the integrated organizational structure, the EOXI of Santiago, includes a population of 450,136 people, who, more or less, come to be an area of influence of 46 municipalities. If I say that in recent times the Hospital Complex itself has suffered several complaints, from delays when it is medical assistance, in this case of oncology, for issues not to replace staff, even with lack of space, and in fact there has been a record for more than two years. If we comment that we are now adding the problem that we learned about the delays of up to eight months in the oncoholic consultations in this hospital, and we have also learned that the patient's defender has sent a letter to the superior prosecutor of Galicia asking the Prosecutor to act on this complaint for inadmissible facts. We are talking about a suspected crime against public health, which is jeopardizing quality of life and healing, since the cancer patient must be scrupulously reviewed and regularly and with great care; especially at the time they are very important. And we talked about that, within these anomalies, patients who are reviewed every month become seals every three months and then every six months and then every year, until the process closes. In the last revisions, to the final control steps, as alerted, they are suffering delays of up to eight months and doubles the deadline initially specified by the Oncology Service. These facts are denounced by the SOS Public Health Platform and also by the Association of Users of the Compostelan Oncology Service (AUSO CHUS). They do in a kind of shrimp, don't they, in view of the saturation? Periodic reviews of patients who are stable but are not yet discharged. If you had a review every six months, now they double the deadline, you expect that with these delays, what's going on is that many of the tests are done, whether they're x-rays, TACs or blood tests, because they expire, when they have to go back to the specialist. And they're actually giving cases of patients who are called from the CHUS Admission Service itself to delay the appointment for review more than eight months. Yes, it is true that within the most growing demands there is a lack of oncologists and lack of space, and also a lack of more personal, as it may be nursing staff. And, well, to say that over the past four or five years, no oncology specialist has been incorporated, and it won't be for statistics, because unfortunately every day it increases the number of patients and cancer patients, and then I make a big call. And then, apart from -- which is sometimes very painful -- for living in the first person an experience -- that you go to the oncologist's own office and basically doesn't look at your face, because you spend all the time covering papers; sometimes it seems like we're in an office in the administration. And we're talking about the program, which we understand should be replaced by what Sergas already had, and we saved the money, right? And to say of this famous multinational who acquires the program, Grifols Moovaco, which seems to have even derived his decision to pay taxes outside the country. We understand, because of the demands that all patient associations make, for better treatment, that, apart from hiring oncologists and expanding the room of the day hospital, we also need to expand the number of nursing staff, because that would give us better management and more responsible management, because it's not just better service, it's not just spending less – that is what we're going to do – and it also has to boost primary care. And above all, I say it by these people that you have to move to a prudential distance, especially in the state of health where you are, because I think that many times, when you do this kind of design, you never think about the patient or the patient. That's why we've been with the mantra for years, which is to spend as little as possible in the short term. We have to make a long-term investment, considering what I said before, which is increasing the number of patients. That's why we are presenting an addition amendment, which would urgently and unappreciatively expand the care space for the day-to-day hospital, establish coordination and communication with other services, such as primary care for cancer patients, and improve the quality of care offered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Fernández Rodríguez. Socialist Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Hold on.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u179	Thank you, President. Yes, indeed, Mrs Prado, the Compostela Oncology Service has been working at the limit for years, and yet paying good attention to the efforts of the professional people who work in it, that is, working despite the management of the Council and not assisted by the management of the Council, exactly the same as the rest of the public health service in Greece; a councillor, ladies, from which today I gather the newspapers that will encourage doctors who are willing to buy cheap, cheap – yes, Mr., cheap –, not that they do well. We'll see, you, as a sick person, go to your doctor and you'll be relieved to know that the doctor who is attending them, the salary of that professional,... yes, sir, things aren't done like that, sir, let's go to a model... yes, load the model, say a bad model, load what we have and replace it with a much worse one. [[Murmurs.]] As a patient, it doesn't comfort me to know that the salary of the doctor who's attending me depends on the cost of my prescription. Yes, sir, and if we smile and criticize that laboratories, yes, give and encourage professionals, we also have to smile that the Council does not encourage greater quality of health care, not better health outcomes, but simply better economic results. That's the way you chose. But let's go back to Compostela. We were talking about the situation so difficult that they already had to meet all the demand. Well, in that context it turns out that the Silicon programme actually appears and the difficulties it has caused because they have just overflowed the situation. It seems that Sergas is dedicated, ladies and gentlemen, to buying computer software in part, to cover partial needs, which are unrelated to each other and which are also not incorporated into Yanus. In other words, Sergas seems to be dedicated to doing a pousle with computer software, generating, ladies and gentlemen, a continuous chaos among the sick and the daily despair of professionals and professionals, which sees how complicated their work is; they are already at the edge, at the limit, and still more complicated with all that sort of software push. And a good example of this is Silicon, a program actually created by a private company, which can be useful to facilitate management and saturation in the hospital pharmacy, something certainly necessary – we don't say that, of course yes – but that bothers and makes work difficult, the performance of the clinic, because it doesn't contemplate that aspect at all, does it not even collect nursing care? So instead of serving as a aid to all the services involved in the pursuit of a patient, it benefits some but harms others. And of course, as things are already very complicated every day, because this is about precipitating the disaster. Madam President, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group we have tabled an amendment to your proposal to introduce another serious problem which undoubtedly also have cancer patients in Galicia: difficulties in accessing innovative treatments; difficulties, in addition, whimsical, variable. They don't behave the same way as the patient is in an EOXI or in an area or another, right? and we're also talking about access to treatments that for some patients are the only therapeutic possibility they have. It's the same thing we saw with hepatitis C, and that's what's happening with oncoholic treatments. Yes, the Feijóo Government is dedicated to putting on filters and filters – known as commissions – with the only intention of delaying access to drugs, expensive drugs, ladies and gentlemen – if, at least, this debate is to be held – expensive, expensive, undoubtedly, but – I insist – in many cases the only therapeutic possibility in patients who have no time to lose. Look, ladies and gentlemen, since Europe authorizes a therapeutic unit until it reaches Galician cancer patient for more than three years; it has to pass the Commission, or obtain authorization from the State Pharmacy Commission, the Autonomous Pharmacy Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u180	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u181	...to locate the EOXI filters and then the branches filters; i.e. years and years of waiting. This, ladies and gentlemen, really requires a restless debate, a serious debate, but we must take it and carry it out. Look, in addition, we've changed point number three because we find it difficult at this point to withdraw Silicon, even though...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u182	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u183	...we share – yes, sorry, yes, I finish – that actually caused chaos with its implementation. So, we ask you not to suppress it, if you improve it, because it's implanted in the rest of the autonomous community and also in other autonomous communities, which would make it worse at this point. And we share, we fully agree that the Council has to put more effort into using its own technological resources to create the programs that professionals and professionals need in their daily activities.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u184	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u185	We hope our amendment is taken into account. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Acuña. For the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga Alternative, Mrs Solla Fernández has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u187	Thank you, President. This group will support the claim of this non-law proposal and in the afternoon we will ask the Health Counsellor again about this matter. Troop after stumbling, right? at the Health Council, scandal after scandal, and that's the management of the public health of this government. The Attorney General's Office is the fact that it does not deal with this council: two high-ranking charges – and still, by the way – for the management of hepatitis C treatment; the Prosecutor's office is pending to pronounce on possible charges at the Social Policy Council and the Health Council for the neglect of a homeless person, and now also pending to pronounce on the irresponsible delays in the oncology consultations at the Santiago de Compostela Hospital Complex. Health is sending an SOS, almost no service is already saved. We have already denounced the delays in magnetic resonances in many centers, the delays and the conditions in which they were being made - in trucks - the delays in oncology appointments in Vigo and even in chemotherapy treatments, which, of course, in the months of Christmas were scandalous. And now it has to be organized society, SOS Health, patient advocates, the affected people, who denounce this situation, which is intolerable. And, as it was said, appointments to review the sick and cancer people who were changed, delaying a previous appointment they had previously granted, and we were talking about how they moved from six to eight months. I consider it a barbarity in these patients, who, in addition, are people in a situation because they are quite vulnerable, and have been denounced, through the media, that they were for the month of May this year and that they moved even to 2017, when there was already a prior expectation obviously in all those months until this month of May, when they rescheduled. The answer was the complaints of the affected persons and how the hospital was justified because it had to recognize the reality and the lack of oncologists and oncologists enough to meet this demand; so it was recognized by the center itself. Because of not increasing the templates, when, as it has actually moved, there is an increase in the workload through that management program, and in addition people who are sick with cancer have increased – that chronicity of which the People's Party also takes hands on many occasions – and this time it seems that to increase the staff of the professionals does not serve them. On May 5 they had to recognize from the hospital that this situation was real, that is, if there were really no complaints from these people, even though the situation was known, because it was the very center that rescheduled the appointments, nothing had been done. I mean, if you don't report people, obviously you wouldn't have taken any kind of measure. I wonder why you can now reschedule those appointments, why you can now complete those consultations, it seems that in the afternoon, and not before. And it would be nice if we were to be told -- we'll ask in the afternoon too -- why you can now put those means, when on other occasions it seems they're not available, and why now they want us to believe that they're going to put more economic means. A few days ago Mr. President and candidate Feijóo said they would make more money to remove those waiting lists, after they had been hidden, after they had cut up to satiety to public health. It seems like a bad joke, a bad joke, that, after you cut us off, you're now saying that they're going to invest in cutting those waiting lists, right? That is the health planning of the People's Party, and even though since the administration it has moved beyond the fact that this problem was already solved, because last week – and that's why we will also talk to the Counsellor – more complaints have arisen in the Hospital Complex. Here's the magnificent planning performance of the Health Council. It was translated through the media into the case of a woman operated with colon cancer, with metastasis, who was also six months behind the date of nuclear magnetic resonance imaging; she was called when she made the complaint, but now she's waiting again until October of this same year for that date. We affirm at the moment – and we reiterate it – that the cuts kill, and we demand that the Council also take care of their responsibilities once and for all. There are only a few months left of legislation, to see if once and for all they take care of their obligations, which is about time. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. The People's Group has the floor Mr. Núñez Centeno.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u189	Thank you, President. Good morning again, gentlemen. Mrs. Acuña, in demagogy with variable productivity, you know that as much as I do, eh!, you know what you say and how you say it, but well... at least we're lucky you haven't talked about the Ortega Amancio Foundation today. Maybe it's for the photo and for the 40 million euros – of course! – that's for Andalusia. I suppose you've already called Mrs. Susana Díaz and asked her to give up the money. Here in Galicia the People's Group want that money, eh! [[Applause]] Call, call, now you've forgotten about oncology. The first thing we want from the People's Group is to defend the professionalism and degree of commitment to public health for all the people who work in the CHUS Oncology Service, which seems to be in any case doubtful. The truth is, if you increase the number of citizens who have diseases like this, for two basic reasons: the first is because of the increase in life expectancy and the second is because of the chronification, thanks to the advances of medicine; that is, diseases that were immediately dead are now chronicled, they last years, and that actually leads to an increase in demand for oncology. Clearly the CHUS Oncology Service has a recognized prestige, not only at Galicia level, but in Spain and across Europe. He participates in research projects and even assists patients from other autonomous communities. They certainly mix up issues that have absolutely nothing to do with them. They mix Silicon with the delay of a small number of review queries in Compostela's EOXI Oncology Service, actually due to an error, already corrected, and which have been rescheduled all for this month. As is the case in recent years in this Chamber, you make a continuing apocalypse of the public health situation in Galicia, talking about medical pressure or poor quality of health care received by patients in the Oncology Service at Santiago Hospital. And you know that's not the case. The Oncology Service works reasonably well, providing quality health care to cancer patients who assist in receiving treatment from their illness. And, as I told you, there was indeed an incident with the automatic reprogramming of a review appointments, which has already been resolved immediately, being all the sick – I repeat – quoted to be seen this May. Here it seems to be ignored that about 30,000 queries are made each year in the Oncology Service. We therefore believe that the first point is absolutely solved. With regard to the second paragraph, the news I have is that the template has increased this year in 3 professionals – you say no – besides 2 other medical oncology specialists in research tasks, for the benefit of patients. In January, the activity of the combined oncology unit of precision began, with the aim of integrating health care and research, putting research into the service of society and patients. A lot of progress: liquid biology, the modelling of the metastasis process or nanotechnology-based diagnostics are being investigated here in Santiago, effectively with a public-private collaboration, in a pioneering project in Spain. You don't doubt that this research will bring fruit to a better quality and life expectancy of cancer patients, which I don't think they're as concerned as you seem to be continually with the model of funding these lines of study, which can give very good results. And with regard to the Silicon programme, the Silicon program is a prescription program that has been implemented in hospitals all over Galicia for years, it's not now. As Mrs. Acuña said, it is implemented in many autonomous communities, and, for example, in the Vall d'Hebron, which is a reference hospital for oncology, it works with that prescription program, which is certainly not yet done in oncology in Galicia. It is assisted electronic prescription, which favors the validation and dispensing of medication by the pharmacy service and the electronic record of the administration of medicines by the nurse. It's true that it has complexity in its use; it also had Yanus when it started, and today it's a highly valued program throughout the country. What's with that program? It incorporates alerts of many types: incompatibilities, allergies, basic diseases that contraindicate an application of medication, previous toxicity, or even check errors in the calculation of doses that are given to the patients. I think it's important enough. Really, Silicon has nothing to do with the timely delay of a small group of review appointments, after years have been used, and perfectly integrated into Janus. Today, 80% of the hospital prescriptions in Galicia are done with this program, and their abandonment would be inefficient, it would take years to develop a similar tool, it could increase costs by around 1,000 percent and in no way guarantee a better situation than the current one. That's why we're not going to support his initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u190	Thank you, Mr. Centeno. Group author of the non-law proposal. Mrs. Prado, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u191	Thank you. First, thank you for the support of Alternative Glaga de Left, the Joint Group and the PSOE for the initiative. We are going to accept the amendment of the Joint Group, and as for that of the PSOE, in the first amendment, I propose a transaction, which is that in the subsequent electronic programs used by Sergas be developed with own resources whenever possible with the consultation of professionals. And if you accept the second point. I, once again, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, because – I said before – you are repeaters, aren't you? In the face of a problem of this magnitude – we are talking about sick people, patients, those who had been delayed to consult almost one year – what is the first reaction? Deny the facts; the second reaction, recognize them; the third, make a patch to solve the problem; and the fourth, accuse the opposition of apocalypse. I mean, when the wise man points the moon, the fool looks at his finger. Balloons out, balloons out, MP of the People's Party. Look at a little thing: would the problem have been solved if we hadn't filed the complaint? No, I'm sure not. Because it turns out these reprogrammings have been doing for months, and nothing has been done until the BNG filed the complaint, until the BNG released this patient's dates and was public in the media. Unfortunately, unfortunately, until social alarm is created, until it becomes public, until it is impossible to deny evidence, because there is physical evidence, then the People's Party reacts at that time. He reacts – I insist – by placing a patch: enables afternoon consultations to care for patients who were rescheduled for 2017. Does this solve the problem of the operation or limit of the CHUS Oncology Service in Santiago? No, no, no, no. Are there excellent professionals in Santiago's CHUS Oncology Service? Yes, of course, yes, and no one's accusing them; we're accusing you of making them work at the limit for years, for years. [[Applause]] That's what we're accusing them of, that they don't put any resources on them so they can develop their performance in condition, so they can take care of the patients in condition. That's what we're accusing them of. And what we're asking is they put resources on the table, they expand the template, they replace professionals when they have a right to their days and vacations, which they're not doing. So, when you're going to vote here today against increasing staff resources in the CHUS Oncology Service, what they're doing is, once again, putting on the back of professionals to provide such health care in condition, and it's not possible. A patch doesn't solve the problem, not even with this injection of 5 million euros, now in extremities, eh!, in the middle of the electoral precipitate, to lower the waiting lists, those waiting lists...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u192	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u193	...that one more day they say there's no problem and it turns out now they have to inject 5 million euros to put them down. Well, I'm sorry that you're not able to vote in favour of providing a service that needs you more personally, that you're not able to do that, and that you're not able to recognize that a computer program that's causing a lot of problems, and when the staff aren't at the limit these problems are going to solve them...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u194	Finish it, Mrs. Prado.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u195	...–end, Madam President– paying more attention to them, when it happens like Santiago's CHUS, who are at the limit, with a program that requires twice as much time for prescription, it turns out that this situation results in a delay of months. They're incapable of admitting their mistakes and correcting them. Well, again, we're sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u196	Thank you. Cumulative debate of two non-legislative proposals, the Joint Group and the Left-wing Galician Alternative. G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Da María Consuelo Martínez García and Da Monica Fernández Rodríguez, on the performances that must be carried out in Galicia in relation to the monthlyities that Linorsa, adjudicate of numerous services for the Greek administration, owes its workers G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Alternative Galga de Left, at the initiative of Mr Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the monthlyities which the company Linorsa, adjudicator of the cleaning service of several public buildings dependent on the Galician Union, owes to its workers
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u197	These non-legislative proposals have been amended by the People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u198	To formulate the non-law proposal, first of all, has the floor to Mrs. Martínez García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u199	Thank you, President. Well, Linorsa is a company created in 1981, based in Vigo, which has among its customers various public services in Galicia, especially Sergas and the Education Council; in Ourense it is a concessionaire for cleaning public schools; in Lugo, of several delegations from the Union; in Pontevedra and in the Coruña it serves both the Union and the various municipalities. But Linorsa's criminal conduct is not recent. In 2011 Linorsa fires a person from the company committee because of a strike. He then sacked workers who were on strike, supporting his good-bye companion. This anti-union attitude of Linorsa is known by all and by all, but it's also a much more critical attitude when we're talking about workers with out-of-date fixed contracts and therefore many of them had no right to unemployment. In 2011 too, the Labour Inspectorate lifted a very serious act of infraction of Linorsa, for hiring on that strike where the workers fired a worker to fill the workers on strike. But in 2012 Linorsa continued, and Labour Inspectorate found irregularities in 25 contracts of cleaning workers, who were as possible and should be fixed off. Also in 2012 the IGC denounced irregularities in the process of adjudicating the cleaning service of the Vigo Council, since the company was already out of the bid for fraud against Social Security. In 2013, employees in the cleaning of public schools in Linorsa report continued delays in their payrolls. And in 2014, all Linorsa's workers suffer repeated delays in payrolls, to such a point that Linorsa starts paying first 50% of the payroll and then 25%, always with a month's delay. And yet the Administration of Wales and the municipalities continue to hire Linorsa the cleaning of the centers. The payoff situation in Galicia affects more than 600 workers and workers; we're talking about discounted fixed-terms, a part-time contract, with which minimum income, and a majority female staff; and these 600 workers, who have not been charged all these months since 2012, who start this problem, are in a terrible situation. But in 2015 Turnover communicates to the company committee that owes $1.9 million to the estate. In 2016 it continues to maintain debts with the company, debate wages and dues to pay in excess of December 2015. Sergas terminates the contract with the health centres of Pontevedra and O Salnes and the Social Policy Council terminates its contracts with Linorsa. But there are still many administrations that have contracts with this company, which accumulates – as I have just reported – a long history of non-compliance in the field of labour, labor repression and non-compliance with labour law. Today, workers continue to pay no due wages, the December payment, and the delays in agreement, which have not been applied either. It is at least surprising that administrations maintain contracts with a company that systematically fulfils their obligations with staff, both in the payment of wages and in other business matters. It's outrageous that the only response from the Education Council to the workers in Linorsa who went to the Council was that the Greek administration cannot do anything because it cannot intervene in the labor relations between the private company and its staff. It's insulting, it's not relationships between the private company and its staff, because that private company was hired by the Administration; therefore, the Administration has a direct responsibility for that private company to comply with legality. Not only did he pay the Social Security, he not only paid the Fairy, but he also didn't pay his workers, which is the only thing the German administration says it's not his responsibility. But it does influence, and it sets out when it takes out the requirements that companies can't owe to social security or administration. But they don't happen and they're persistently refusing to collect on the stakes that the company can't owe to the workers nor can it be sanctioned for non-compliance in the field of work. It is worth noting that, after several strike calls that affected Linorsa over all these years, the only thing that made Junta was to decree minimum services; of course, minimum services that were of interest to the company. But in the face of the union's insistence in convening strike in Linorsa, in denouncing wage compensation, in denouncing union repression, Galician Union never had a chance to open an investigation to see what happened in Linorsa to bring about that labor situation. Because the People's Party really doesn't really care about the rights of workers and workers. I've got it said here more than once: you look elsewhere until this situation is done. And so we have to find ourselves now in a situation where workers have to resort to the competition law to claim their wages; a situation that was created as a result of a great job reform against the working class, which ended with the rights won by the working class. You, by decree, condemned the working class to live this repression and to live these corporate abuses. And you are also responsible for a competitive law that has exposed the workers' rights and first imposed the rights of other creditors. So our initiative is that the Galician Union can no longer tolerate these situations, neither Linorsa nor any other company that works for the administration. It's a matter of government dignity itself, it's a matter of government responsibility itself. And it's a commitment that the government itself acquires from the workers and the employees of the contracts that work for the administration, because it's their responsibility to comply with the contracts established. So we are presenting an initiative that claims that the Board is concerned, the Board insists that these salaries be paid, the Board anticipates those salaries of the money it has to claim to Linorsa itself for the breach of the contract. Because what you can't agree with is that the public money that is given to companies that have services are not used to pay pay payrolls and companies use them in their business interests, abandoning all workers' rights, violating all workers' rights and claiming that workers and workers work for free under the welcome of the Government of Wales. And we also call for the termination of all the contracts that Linorsa has with the Welsh Administration for breach of the contract. It's two logical petitions, two requests for the working class, which you have abandoned; two requests for you to correct all the legislative reform that led the working class to live in defence, which places the judges themselves in a tremendous difficulty to dictate fair judgments. You've prevented justice. It's true that you're going to enforce legality, but since law is unfair, you're the only one that's covering up is injustice. I therefore hope that you will vote in favour of this initiative and for the first time defend the rights of the working class and the cleaning and ethics and the commitment and fulfilment of the contracts that the administration and private companies have. Nothing else, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u200	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. To formulate the non-legislative proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the Glaga Alternative of the Left, Mr Fajardo Recouso has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u201	Good day again. I take the 100 words that have just been put here by the voicer of the Joint Group, because, of course, the gravity of this situation implies where the policies of the People's Party are directed. Why is this situation taking place in Linorsa? Because the People's Party applies social apartheid. Why have Linorsa's workers been working without charge for four months, having to go to their jobs every day knowing they won't be charged by the end of the month? It's just because they're women, because they're workers and because they're cleaners, precisely that kind of social class that the People's Party doesn't defend. If they were bankers, if they were presidents of multinationals, they would be rescuing them, but these families – hundreds of families in Galicia that have been without charge for four months – you didn't want to rescue them; they didn't want to help them, but they didn't want to listen to them either. Because it is not to be received what just fifteen days ago Mr. Count said in this House when this situation was brought to plenary also through a question of the Galician Nationalist Block. He said it was demagogy, populism, and opportunistic to bring this situation of Linorsa's workers to this plenary. And then where will the problem be brought to 600 families in this country who don't charge a company that collects money from all of them? Where are you going to debate if not in Parliament's plenary session? The People's Party doesn't want to talk about these things in Parliament, it doesn't want to talk about how the money from the back door goes to companies that are real pirates in the social community and also at work. And we denounce: how could it have taken them at least four years to make decisions? Because they've been aware of the company's irregularities for four years, and there are reports of Labour Inspectorate, where there are acts of gravity as a violation of workers' rights of strike, violation of the right to receive a wage and violation of union freedom. If it doesn't seem serious enough to act, when did they expect to act? They only act when it spreads in their noses, they only take consciousness when they are able to understand that there are 600 families that are telling them they have a responsibility. Because they have no empathy, because they don't understand what this situation is, because none of you know what it's like to go to work at a public building every day for a salary of 900 euros gross and have a full day. But it's just that all these women don't have a full day, most of them are fixed off, with only four hours a day, that don't even reach 400 euros a month. They're going to work every day to pay less than the minimum wage and they've still been working without charge for four months. And you come here and Mr. Conde says that this is not debated in Parliament. I demand the immediate resignation of your responsibility as responsible for the work of this council and this government. Because a person who doesn't understand that there's a need to defend workers who've been working without charge for four months is an angry person who has that responsibility. And forgive me for being belligerent, but it's only when we talk about work rights that we have to talk hard. And the most responsible of these actions are you, because you use these companies for two things: first, in many cases, to hand them over to friends who fund the People's Party; and secondly, as a back door of political clientelism to put those who cannot put in public administration. That is the reality of the People's Party that we have to denounce. And so today we demand a question: that all contracts be terminated with this company, that they be forced to pay paid wages. But we also demand that once and for all change the laws that drown these workers. Because look, I've been in this for many years and almost fifteen years, I've had to argue with Mr. Carlos Mantilla, opponent of the People's Party's Competition Law, who said that this law was good for the workers. And this law means that today these workers cannot charge because it prevents a People's Party law, a law that says that when there is a creditor contest, they are charged by strict order of payment of debts -- whether you're a worker or a multinational -- a law that makes the salary debts of the contract declaration so called mass credits. Do you know it's a credit against the mass? It's a credit that's there and we'll see if it's charged, and it's almost never charged. So we are faced with a fraud in two directions: firstly, companies that finance themselves with public money, who claim themselves in the tender of creditors, who do not pay wages and that at the end these wages are paid by Fogasa; by the way, a Fire which is financed with what is left to the workers every month of their payrolls. So it's the perfect scam: a competition law made to save pirate companies, but to condemn our workers and our workers. And that's what's happening today. And that's why you're saying in your amendment that we're going to address you to the contest administration for you to pay. But you know that the competitive administration is a person who is restricted by a competitive law made by companies and against the working class and against the workers. But you also know that they did everything they could to prevent this job reform from defending these workers. Because any of these workers can go to the trial and say, I want you to pay me. But you know what the rule says when it's going to claim unpaid wages? No, all you can do is assume your dismissal. That's the choice. If I don't get paid, I can go to the company, of course, I'm fired, but I'm out of work. These are the decisions they made by governments that have been attacking the working class for decades in this country and in the state as a whole. That labour reform which, in addition, is saying that when they are fired they will be fired with fewer resources, less wages and less compensation. So the first thing we have to do is eliminate those two rules that are harmful to the working class, and the second, eliminate the governments that defend companies and not the workers. Our proposal is very clear: how can you understand that basic public services, how can the cleaning of schools, the cleaning of hospitals, day centers, jeriatrics, are at the hands of companies that don't pay their people? What do you say to me from a company that is unable to pay to its workers and that will, for example, do with the products used to clean for example – I don't know – an outpatient cure room or a center where they study every day children and children? And then we complained about the things that happened. When they are able not to spend on wages, what are they not going to do in other kinds of matters? And you, looking to the other side, profile, profile! So we, once again, have to bring to this plenary the real debates, the debates that give you a slap on reality, with that recovery that says it's yours. What is the recovery of Linorsa's workers? What is the recovery, which has been four months without being able to care for their families? Who's going to address the prejudices caused by the indecency of the People's Party, who doesn't defend them, those prejudices of a family that charge 400 euros a month and is four months free of charge? Because many of them have already been visited by their banks, where they have their mortgages, telling them: see what happens, because you're not paying the mortgage. And many of them are currently being treated, because they are unable to sustain this situation, work unpaid. And those prejudices who will cover them? No one, absolutely no one, will even cover the whole wage debt. So today you have, first, to amend the advisor. Because that councilman who indignantly said here fifteen days ago that nothing could be done today is going to have to assume that his group is proposing an amendment that basically says the same thing as we say from the Joint Group or from the AGE. If you couldn't do it 15 days ago, why can you do it today? We're before a councilman unworthy of his responsibility, because he doesn't know the regulations. But you might not know her but bother trying, but you don't even mind, because you don't care, you don't care what happens to the working class in this country. Because there's already a new model of working class in this country: the zombie workers, workers like those in Linorosa who will work without charge. What are we going to do with these companies? I suggest you take these questions seriously, because, if not, tomorrow the ones that should be working without charge are you and not the workers of Linorosa. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u202	Thank you, Mr. Fajardo. Mrs. Romero Fernández has the floor to defend the amendments of the People's Group.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u203	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet all those workers who may be following us live and also show our support and solidarity with all these workers for the compensation of their wages on the part of this company, and to reiterate the commitment of the Government of Greece, which was made public in the past full by the Councillor for Economics, Employment and Industry. We have tabled a replacement amendment, because the Galician board cannot force the company to pay the wages owed to the workers, nor can it directly pay the workers in exchange for paying the possible bills pending by this company, nor can it anticipate the wages owed by the company or even against a return agreement, and much less be taken over temporarily by these workers, because they are not workers of the Union and could be alleged illegal assignment of workers. Well, this, which I say the Board can't do, is what they're asking for, literally, in their proposal not of law, and legally is not possible, and they know it, and we also know it by all parliamentary groups. They know that, as has been said here, Linorsa is currently in a position as a creditor tenderer, declared by Pontevedra's 3rd Mercantile Court, based in Vigo on April 19 of this year. They know that, in competition with creditors, all pending payments by the Galician Board, and any other company that has any payments pending with Linorsa, can not make them directly to Linorsa, but must be made through the competitive administration. And, of course, they know that in this situation, the increase in paid wages does not directly do so anymore Linorsa, but it is in the hands of the contestary administrator. You know that, and we all know that, but I think we need to clear it up. So, I suppose you won't have any drawback to accept our substitution amendment on this issue, which improves, updates and adapts to the reality of the difficulty these workers are going through. Our point 1, which would replace point 1 of its two initiatives, literally says: "To request the contestary administrator of Linorsa to pay the wages paid to the employees of the company, with the greatest possible diligence, in accordance with the applicable legislation." Because we cannot urge the Union to skip and ignore the laws, to skip and ignore the procedures and to skip and to ignore all administrative procedures. Because – I repeat – it is the competitive administrator, and not Linorsa, who has from now on worked to ensure the payment of outstanding wages, and I have to do it by fulfilling the Staff Regulations of Workers and the Competition Law, law that gives preference to unpaid wages of workers on other claims owed to the company or on other debts held by the company. The Government of Galicia is always – and always will – next to the people who see their injured rights, also today in connection with Linorsa's staff and their demands. In fact, the Council has been working, carrying out its management, long before these and other initiatives have been registered in this Parliament. And it acts on two sides: in the labour market, acting where it has to act, in the Labour Inspectorate, investigating all complaints, opening sanctioning files and sanctioning infringements; in the recruitment process, terminating contracts, as Mrs. Martínez well acknowledged – that there are already terminated contracts, when legal proceedings so permit, of course – and proceeding to a new contract with the subrogation of workers. In this sense, this is what goes at the second point of our amendment, which also improves and updates and adapts to the current reality of the conclusion of contracts by the Galician Union, which literally says: "Continue with the process of review and resolution of contracts that it maintains with Linorsa" – the Galician Union, it is understood – "when legal procedures so permit and proceed with a new and urgent recruitment to ensure the continuity of the jobs of people who provide services in buildings dependent on the Galician administration." We want to ensure the continuity of all these jobs, and the only way is to do it effectively and through correct processing and in accordance with current regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot present this problem as if it were exclusive to the public administration or exclusive to the governments of the People's Party, because you know it's not. Other public administrations in which other political forces govern also hired Linorsa and also have workers affected. This problem is also being handled by the BNG in the Pontevedra Council and the Socialists in the Pontevedra Deputy, and even in Castilla-A Mancha, where Labour Commissions, according to the digital papers, are blocking the Socialist Government's lack of political will to solve this very situation that Linorsa workers are suffering in this autonomous community. Well, you don't refer in your proposal not of law to this reality. Well, I don't know if it's worth it, Mr. Fajardo, for some left-wing governments it's not good for those of the PP, but, well, we also worry about these workers working in other administrations. That's why we added a third point, which literally says, "Go to the rest of the public administrations to act in the same way as the Linorosa company." –it is understood in the same way that we reflect in our amendment in points 1 and 2–. In short, Your Honor, this is a substitution amendment that updates and improves texts that present both AGE and the Mixed Group, and that I think either of you could accept perfectly. And so it would allow us, in a responsible and rigorous way, to show the unanimous support of this Parliament to the workers and to the situation of tremendous difficulty that many of these families are experiencing. I'd like to think that, well, Mr. Fajardo, they don't bring this to this Parliament to do demagogy or to make you believe, Mr. Fajardo, that, if you don't charge the workers tomorrow, it's not because the PP doesn't want it, because it seems from your intervention that – I really regret it very much – it is. And I also want to thank Mrs. Martínez for not making this a demagogy, for understanding that, well, here we all threw a little bit of this intervention towards ours; well, it's very easy to do demagogy on this subject and I thank Mrs. Martínez for not doing it. In the hope that nothing else will achieve a consensus in this situation, for the sake of everyone and, above all, of this House, I hope that they will accept the amendment. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Romero. For the Galician Nationalist Block, Mrs. Prado Colors has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u205	Mrs Romero's People's Party Member just said all the solidarity and commitment of the People's Party, didn't she? The truth is that solidarity is good, but acting is better, and the commitment, the only commitment you made here the other day the counselor was to say that you were moving papers, besides being here insulting this honourable Member for bringing a problem that affects several hundred workers in this country to this Parliament, in addition to that issue. And look, you said here everything the Government couldn't do, and I'm telling you everything the Government can do on the issue of the Linorsa workers' problem. And what you can do, first, is rescind now, rescind now, and not say they're doing papers to see if they can fire. You know you can do it now. They can also get on the side of the workers, they can get on the side of the workers in a clear way, for example by receiving them, and not as they said to the workers and their union representatives in Lugo, the leaders of the board, which is: we have nothing to say to you. Yesterday in Lugo the representatives of the People's Party, the People's Party, told the workers of Linorsa: we have nothing to say to you. That's what you say when you talk about engagement. They said that: we have nothing to say to you. Didn't you tell them they're rescinding Sergas contracts or the Middle Rural facilities in Lugo? No, no, no, no. They didn't tell you anything about it, Madam. They were told: we have nothing to say to you. They can also terminate the contract and do, in fact, as Castile-A Mancha or as in León. What did they do with other kind of administration? Disclaiming the contract, taking care of it, hiring a company temporarily so that workers can continue to work, as long as they don't bid again. Of course you can do something else, and you're not doing it and you can. I, of course, regret that you say you have a commitment to the workers when since the 18th day workers from the educational centres in the Compostela district are still on strike, are on strike and still on strike; when the workers from the rural middle of Lugo and Sergas de Lugo units are still on strike. I don't think so because they have nothing else to do. They do it because they are in a limited position; they do it because they are working without charge; they do it because – as has already been said here – their wages in many cases are the only ones who enter their homes, and, of course, with the situation the company has been in, which has not paid them for several months, is that it cannot cope with the payments of their mortgages, their receipts, their maintenance, their children's; they do so because they are in a complicated situation, a situation denounced on many occasions, which has been denounced for months; that is, Linorsa is constantly recurring in the situation of not paying wages to her workers. And it's been months, years, not months, reporting this situation. And the Board of Galicia, after knowing, because I knew it -- I said it here the other day and I repeat it again -- by land, sea and air from which was the situation of Linorza, had received complaints at Labour Inspectorate, had received complaints directly from the representatives of the workers, who brought the situation to the attention of the Board, and had received communication from the Social Security embargo and from the Tax Agency, Junta knew this situation and, despite knowing it, renewed it, he made an allowance for the contract, extended the contract to Linorsa knowing this situation. I mean, it's not true that the People's Party in Galicia had done everything possible, it's not true. And what you can do is actually agility. That was what we asked at the previous plenary here to the councillor, who had been more agile and had solved the problem, which, of course, fifteen days later, had not done. The Galician Nationalist Block took this issue back to Commission 4th last week, and met again with the "no" of the People's Party, with the "no" of the People's Party. The words are very good, but the facts are much better. And, of course, the Government of the Union has legal instruments to act. He threw the workers at the strike because he told them that, in the meantime, there was no consequences, he wouldn't do anything. He forced them to go to strike because he told them insistently that if there were no consequences and the service was giving, he would not act. He forced them to go to the strike. But, in addition, what a government has – and of course, it also has – are political instruments, political instruments to act, it has political instruments, first, to stand by the workers and clearly tell the company that it will not consent to this action and that it will not, of course, make contracts with it; it has political instruments to launch a clear message that workers who work for companies that are paid with public resources cannot have that performance; it cannot spend a month and another without paying them their wages. Of course you can. What's the matter? That the People's Party is nothing more than to stand on the side of the workers and workers. No, it was never. The first time there is a problem of employment in this Parliament and the People's Party says: in fact, we are not going to allow any more abuse to the working class; the first time. He always has excuses for poor paying to dilate the times, to look for those who blame him, to seek out others the solution that is in his hand to do so. With which we are going to vote in favour of the initiatives as presented and, of course, we are not going to vote in favour of accepting the amendment of the People's Party, because it is to throw balloons out, it is to demand that another administration do what this administration already has to do, but which is in the hands of the People's Party in the Union of Galicia to do other issues such as those asked for in the initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Prado. For the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Quintas Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u207	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Well, of course, the Socialist Party will support these initiatives. A thousand hundred workers affected, inside and outside Galicia, by the Linorssa company. It is true that the adjudications, both in the Education Council and in the Galician Health Service – the Sergas – as in Justice or in other public administrations, to a company that has demonstrated – and is not the first company that has demonstrated – a procedure, in principle, suspect, by rescinding contracts and not paying its employees. We believe, from the Socialist Party, that administrations must be sure that workers and workers have security in their work. Sometimes, because we constantly bring these issues here, I understand that relevance, but that they are successively one subject after another of fired workers and workers, it seems we don't care about it. But there is a reality beyond that country of wonders that I wanted to describe the President of the Union this morning. A country, of course, that does not correspond to reality; a country, of course, in which one does not understand why the Greek Government does not allow access to many workers and workers to this plenary, in which one does not understand why the Greek Government does not receive many workers who are in this situation. It's suspicious that a company with so many public adjudications comes to a competitive procedure with a debt of 8.6 million euros, right? If the administration pays, if the schools are cleaning up, if we're cleaning up the Administration of Justice, if that work is done, it's sometimes suspicious that these things happen. And sometimes it's suspicious that the Administration doesn't take the necessary and necessary measures. On the other hand, we are talking about that country of the wonders that the President of the Union defined us today in the morning, but, nevertheless, international organizations say that the workers of the Spanish state – the Greek workers – are already poor workers. But international organizations also say that this terrible pay gap between men and women is getting bigger and, in particular, with this company we're talking about, we're talking about an absolutely feminized job. We're talking about an absolutely feminized job, a job that's not done, a job that's for hours. And, above all, we're talking about families that are going to stay unpaid, families that are left on the street, women who, apart from earning less than men at work, and apart from having less rights for unfair work reforms, are in a very complicated situation. As I say, we will support this initiative. We are in precaution, therefore, it is true that many times the German Government meets with some worker and makes those promises; I still remember the previous campaign of self-government, as the workers of the Galician Employment Service believed those promises, which were later translated into dismissals. Let us hope that, as I say, that country of the wonders which Mr Feijóo defines, which does not correspond to a quantified reality, we are paying attention to these women and men. We will therefore support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Quintas. For the parliamentary group which is the author of one of the non-legislative proposals, Mrs. Martínez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u209	Thank you, President. Well, I think today, on this initiative, what we can really say is that we talk about something as current and as important as the class struggle. There's obviously a class struggle in this country, which is reflected in a conflict like that of Linorosa. For our part, I will accept the amendment of the People's Party. I know that point 1 doesn't say much further, it doesn't contribute much more, since, in accordance with the Vigilent Legislation, the Vigilant Legislation is quite unfair to the working class and it's hard for you to get to charge. But, I also believe, that it is much more important to arrive at an agreement that compromises the Union with the defence of the interests of the workers and the workers of Linorsa. I don't agree that we can't do what we ask. I think you can do what the will is to do – you can do a lot more than do – but I think the important thing is that this Parliament and the Union today are committed to supporting the Linorsa workers. I therefore accept the amendment and have already spoken to the People's Party, amending, to add a fourth point that I would say, as another obligation to acquire the Board: "Translate to the legal representation of workers and workers the actions which the Administration takes in relation to the previous points." For my part, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u210	Thank you, Mrs. Martínez. Parliamentary Group of the Alternative Left Gallega, Mr Fajardo.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u211	The truth is that I deeply regret not only that the counselor does not know the labour regulations – including the competition law – but also the spokesperson for the People's Party. Because coming here to say that demanding the competitive administration to pay, because she's responsible for payments and guarantees to charge, is a barbarity. You know that since the invitation to tender is declared until the competitive report, which makes an assessment of debts, you pay nothing more than those credits that are due, by strict order of due dates, not by their qualification; and then, in the report, you qualify the credits, priority, against the mass, privileged. And it is precisely wage credit that is always damaged, because only compensation and the 30 days prior to the statement of the invitation to tender are recognized as privileged. So there's a labour law in the People's Party that harms workers. But, of course, what I can't assume is that you tell me you do everything you can, because the reality is that these facts were already known. We've known for two years that there are impages, that there is violation of fundamental rights, violation of union rights, and Junta looking to the other side. Only when it explodes and, above all, when the comrades mobilize and declare a strike that causes problems in public services, is when it acts. They've been working without charge, you gave them absolutely the same. Only when they paralyze their work – because it is impossible to go to work every day without charge – is when the board starts acting. But, above all, there is a reality here, and it is that in the pleas, in the terms of contracts of the Galician Union, social clauses could be included which, for example, prevent a company with a delicious record of workers' rights from entering into a public contract; or a company which accumulates compensation for its employees from attending a public contract. That's what you had to do. Plus, that's what you've been debating in this House on one occasion and you said no. A proposal to include these clauses has recently been discussed in this House very recently, and you always say no. Why? Because you want the law of the jungle at work, and that every worker defends himself individually, and there's no collective defense or government that pays attention to the interests of the working class and its, let's say, affected. So I think the battle has been lost so that you understand that workers can't continue to work without charge. And it seems to me that the only formula for them to understand what this situation means is that next week each of us had to go clean up a public center with them and see what it means to clean up a public center without charging a weight at the end of the week. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u212	Thank you. About the amendment? Do you accept the amendment to the...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u213	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u214	Thank you. Voting of non-legislative proposals
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u215	We therefore move on to the vote on non-law proposals. We begin with the vote on the non-legislative motion of the People's Parliamentary Group. He has already stated that he did not accept the amendment of the Left Galician Alternative Group. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr. José Manuel Balsairo Orol, on the development by the Galician Union of the plan of support for artisanal fishing announced by the Sea Council and directed to improve its competitiveness, as well as the working conditions of its professionals. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u216	We now vote on the Non-Legal Proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The rapporteur from the People's Group spoke in favour of a point-by-point vote. The Socialist Group does not accept it. We therefore vote on the proposal as it is. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Da María Carmen Acuña do Campo and four other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the attention being given to people with chronic psychiatric diseases derived from residences of the third age. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 32; votes against, 39. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u217	I'm sorry. What did he want? Did you vote for it? Please? Well, then I think it was 33 in favor. We now vote on the proposal... No, if you want, we repeat the vote, but I think it was... It wasn't something either. [[Murmurs.]] We therefore vote for the People's Parliamentary Group in Galicia, at the initiative of Don Jesús Antonio Goldar. He did not accept the amendments that were made to him. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, at the initiative of Mr.Jess Antonio Goldar Güimil and six other Members, on the execution in 2016 of the first two-thirds of the Morrazo highway, as well as the end of that year of the drafting and approval of the third-third-party project. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 38; votes against, 33. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u218	We are now voting on the proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Nationalist Block Galego. We vote. Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Teresca Paz Franco, on the action to be carried out by Junta de Galicia in relation to the advertising and propaganda expenses made by the various bodies and entities of the public sector in Galicia. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u219	We are now voting on the proposal from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The rapporteur has already stated that he did not accept the amendments. We vote. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me? What did you accept the amendments? What did I say, that I didn't accept? Oh, sorry. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, I accepted, I accepted the amendments. To... we're starting. I'm correct, if I said it wrong. Accept the amendments. [[Murmurs.]] We vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galician Socialists, at the initiative of Mr Emilio Vázquez Blanco and two other Members, on the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the book and library sector. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. This initiative is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u220	We are now voting on the non-legislative proposal of the Galician Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group. According to me, according to the rapporteur, he accepts the amendment of the Joint Group and proposes a compromise with point 1 of the amendment of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and accepts point 2 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We therefore vote. Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. of the Galego Nationalist Block, at the initiative of Da María Montserrat Prado Cores, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Galicia in relation to the reprogramming of appointments for oncologic review consultations in the Organizational Structure of Integrated Management of Santiago de Compostela, as well as the functioning of the computer program of prescription pharmaceutical Silicon. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u221	We are now voting on the non-law proposals that have been debated together, but firstly we are voting on those of the Joint Parliamentary Group. Both are in relation to the monthly fees that Linorsa, adjudicate of numerous services for the Greek administration, owes its workers. First of all, we voted in favour of the Joint Group, which stated that it accepted the amendment of the People's Parliamentary Group. We vote. [[Mrs. Martínez García speaks words that are not perceived.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u222	The amendment with the addition I read. I'll put it in writing later.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u223	Yes, yes. Perfect. [[Murmurs.]] Vote for G.P.'s non-legislative proposal. Mixto, at the initiative of Maria Consuelo Martínez García and Monica Fernández Rodríguez, on the performances that must be carried out in Galicia regarding the monthlyities that Linorsa, adjudicate of numerous services for the Greek administration, owes to its workers. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 63; abstentions, 7. The voting is positive. As a result, this non-law proposal is adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u224	And we now vote the same, which is from the Alternative Parliamentary Group on the same subject – jointly debated by the Parliamentary Group of the Left-Galga alternative – which is in particular about the actions to be taken by the Government of Greece in relation to the monthlyities that Linorsa, adjudicatariat del Servicio de Limpeza and several public buildings dependent on the Galician Union, owes to its workers. I mean, the same thing we said before, and you said you didn't accept the amendment. [[Laughter]] Non-law vote on the proposal by the G.P. by Juan Manuel Fajardo Recouso and five other Members, on the actions to be carried out by the Government of Greece in relation to the monthly fees that Linorsa, the cleaning department of several public buildings dependent on the Galician Union, owes to its employees. The voting was as follows: votes in favour, 33; votes against, 38. The result of the vote is negative. As a result, this non-law proposal is rejected.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u225	Before I suspend the session, I want to report a change on the agenda, and it is that – I have spoken to the stakeholders – the question that in the Question Time to the Government was presented in fifth place will be dealt with in the second place. The session is suspended until 4:30.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u226	Good afternoon. We resume the session with item 5 on the agenda, which corresponds to the one on interpelerations. Da Maria Teresca Peace Franco, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the evaluation of the functioning and deficiencies of the current model of emergencies, prevention, extinction of fires and rescue of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u227	To formulate the interpellation has the floor to Mrs. Paz.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u228	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Vice-President of the Union, colleagues from the fire crew and representatives from the Inter-union Bureau of Galician Firefighters who accompany us from the guest gallery. As all of your lordships and Vice-President of the Galician Council can be checked, this plea we bring to this plenary today is quite old and was registered by this group on May 7, 2015. We want to use it firstly to express what issues such as those that have recently been going through, in particular, fifteen days with the fire in Moaña of the Fandicosta facilities, or a week later, six days ago, in a fire in Montes Fornelos, where numerous outbreaks have been detected in the operation of the emergency device and the fight against fires in our country, they are not the result of chance, but they are the result of structural deficiencies that have the emergency system in our country, which has been denounced in countless moments and countless occasions by the workers of the different fire groups in our country as well as by different platforms, and complaints from which we have made us echo this parliamentary group as well. Since then, specifically in November 2015, you have appeared here, Mr. Rueda, to report on the integrated emergency care management model in Galicia, and on that occasion you made such taxive statements as the result of many years of effort – not just in recent years, especially in recent years, but in many years – the Emergency Map of Galicia will finally be fully operational in 2016. You said it was the most rational system, and that, in addition, with the incorporation of supra-municipal groups, they considered it complete. You were saying that you will also be led by an Emergency Gaga Agency, a strengthened agency in its operation and also in its media, a fully modernized technology platform with expanded and updated planning instruments from now on. The troops will be better integrated, through their common use, of a new digital network for their communications, and better formed. We could say that coverage by fire parks in our community is 89.3% of the population, counting the cities, and 71.8% of the surface. You ended by saying, "We have today, I think, a coherent map, a map with greater coverage, with better communications, with better equipped services than in recent years, and a centre that coordinates all the needs in this area and that seeks to update and enhance the operation and knowledge of all those staff." With all due respect, Mr. Rueda, I have to tell you that if we do not have more serious consequences in this country, it is because of the dedication and professionalism of the workers, but of course not because these statements that you made here with so much roundness and with so much solemnity conform to reality. Look, the Fandicosta fire in Moaña puts manifesto and evidence empirically all and each of the deficiencies that are being reported in relation to your device. I would like to recall that when the Final Map was presented a couple of years ago, when the GHGs were created, Mr Villanueva said in this Parliament that there was coverage throughout the territory in a 20-minute isochrons from any emergency and fire fighting device, and that there were the necessary instruments for coordination and for the existence of a single command, which was established through 112. All that, Mr. Rueda, vanished like a sugarcane in the Fandicosta fire. There was total and absolute improvisation, both in the mobilization of the media and in the coordination of the media that shifted to the Fandicosta fire, there was no single command and, as the firefighters say, it is not a question of making large deployments there, of carrying a truck so that it appears there is a single command, but of establishing and regulating a fire, where devices from different administrations are mobilized, who direct the fire, and not what happened there, that each one did what he could well. Of course, the disaster must have been of such magnitude that even the president of the Galician Union said the next day that he asked for explanations and that 112 should be given an explanation about what was happening there. And the citizenry, Mr. Rueda, not only the neighbours and neighbours of Moaña, not only the workers and workers affected by the fire of that factory, who are now going to have to suffer a job regulation file, they have the right to know why since 112 Vigo municipal fire station has not been mobilized, which is 8 minutes from where the fire was being produced, while the one from Ribadumia, the one from Porriño or those who were at much the greatest distance, with many less human means and many less material means. When he had spent almost an hour since the fire, there were only three trucks and three workers. Do you think that you can handle a fire with that equipment? There is another particular feature, Mr. Rueda: as the service of the district parks of the province of Pontevedra – of the Pontevedra Consortium – are absolutely privatized, the staffing of these parks is absolutely insufficient, so that when they mobilized to go to the fire of Fandiscosta, the Porriño park was left without any staff and they had to take charge from Ponteareas, not only of the Ponteareas area but also of the Porriño area. And the same thing happened in Ribadumia. But it's just that the lack of staff, Mr. Rueda... as we've already told you here on many occasions, it's not normal for the parks to have an average turn of 3 people, when from European institutions it's established that the optimal is a minimum of 5 people per shift, and that's what we told you here, for example, it's not even done, because when it was this last fire in Montes Fornelos, when the firefighters in the Porriño asked for reinforcements to round it, they couldn't get out of the GES of Round it because there was no one available at that time, and they had to call the GES of the plane, which took almost two hours to get to the place of the fire, once again when the Vigo park was much closer and with a much more reasonable isochron. That is why, Mr. Rueda, I didn't want to be alone in the concrete fact of Fandicosta, I simply used it because it was a serious fact that made it manifest all the deficiencies in the emergency system we have in this country, but I want to transcend this concrete fact which simplifies those deficiencies to go to the bottom of the matter. You at that meeting also said that if the provincial deputies were willing to review the model, both in terms of their privatization and in terms of competence, the Board would not be an obstacle, and that's why I ask you again. There is a law passed in 2007 – the Emergency Act – which in its additional provisions established specific deadlines. If they had done within the deadlines that mark the law, if almost ten years later if they had fulfilled what marks the law – which, by the way, I'm starting by saying that it has contrasted, after the passage of time, many deficiencies that should have been improved – if they met those additional provisions, many of the issues that were detected in the Fandicosta fire would not have happened. For example, when do you intend to homogenize – which gave you a three-year term to the law – both the benefits and the working conditions of the entire staff of the emergency and fire service throughout Galicia? Also, if you had developed a master plan for services and defined a territorial rearrangement model so that at every moment since 112 it would be clear what is the device to be mobilized, what is in better condition for your staffing, what is the lowest isochron to be able to handle the fire and what is the right material means, these things wouldn't happen.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u229	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u230	And finally – and I'm done, Mr President – if you've drawn up that you also had a deadline that is more than over a year in the regulation of firefighters and volunteering, surely all those disappointments of not knowing who's in charge of a fire, of not having a single command and of having a real chaos, only begged for the professionalism and will of the workers, would not have happened either. Mr. Rueda, I ask you to answer these questions once again, and by the way too, if possible, tell us of this research that the chairman of the Galician board asked about what happened with 112, with the mobilization of the media in the Fandicosta fire, which also gives us that information. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. The Vice President and President's Adviser, Public Administrations and Justice have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u232	Thank you very much, President. A greeting to the union representatives of the firemen. Mrs. Peace, indeed, as you said, today I come here to respond to an inquiry recorded more than a year ago where you propose the same as you are now. He didn't think about it during the past year. I don't know if it's because you remember the emergencies only when you produce one that deserves your attention and grief or because you think that during this year things have done well and we're doing it; the case is that you recorded it a year ago, and for a year nothing happens, according to you. But it's happened, it's happened. I think, indeed, as you say, I came here in September last year, if I don't remember correctly, to make an approach to what I will now refer to again. There were several speeches by the German Government in committee on all these issues and even answered questions in full. So things have happened; another thing is that you or you don't want to know, or you don't want to know, or you definitely don't want to hear, Mrs. Peace, because, really, if you listen, I suppose some of the things you put here wouldn't pose them or pose them differently, I tell you honestly. Or do you not know – and you know because you referred to that appearance – that I was here, as I told you, in September to say that there was no inconvenience on the part of the Galician board in changing the provincial consortium management system? There was no inconvenience, we only put two conditions, which I put here again on the table because it seems that they were not well understood, at least by their group, or at least by you, that they are: that they do not suppose to increase the cost and that they do not endanger the working conditions and the stability of the professionals who work right now in the consortium of firemen. Listen, from there we opened a dialogue in which, if I understood correctly the Vice-President of the Crown Parliament, who spoke on behalf of the three deputies who advocated for the change of system, they said they were going to work, and, as they were clear that the system could be changed by respecting these two conditions, because they would immediately provide us with the documentation that was needed to start the change of system. Listen, we're still waiting four months later. I myself had to convene a meeting last month and a half to say, "Hey, what's going on?" we stayed on presenting the papers right away and here we didn't move a single role on the part of those who make the proposals. And this I think we have to tell the fire department too, because it's very easy to come through the fire department, to say that everything is done and that it's just the Joint that doesn't want to change the system, but when Junta says that there's no problem with changing the system, it turns out that the problems start with providing documentation and doing studies, and all that was said to be so easy it turns out that they start telling us at the meetings that we keep it much more difficult and that the technicians are looking at it. That is the reality, Mrs Peace, because, of course, if all the problems of emergency interventions come from the current system that is being implemented and – I remind you – with the support of the MPs not always governed by the People's Party... because the indirect management system is agreed with the Deputy of the Crown, governing the BNG and the PSOE in the Deputy of the Crown. The indirect management system is agreed with the Lugo Deputy, governing the BNG and the PSOE in the Lugo Deputy. And the system right now maintained with the four deputies is between the Council of Galicia and the deputies, in which, except one, I believe – and you too, because it is a reality – that does not rule the People's Party. So let's go to system change, you can change that; we have no problem discussing all this if these conditions are met. It's very easy to say that it's always the fault of the system set up according to everyone and then do nothing to change it, when you're saying it was so easy. This is the middle of the matter. We went on, four months later – and I'm glad the firemen's representatives are here to meet that situation – waiting for us to get the documentation they told us they had from the first day, and there's nothing. It's still going on, and when there's an emergency, they start to criticize the guilt of the system, of what you're participating in, but they don't do anything to change it. Having said this, look, I think we need to defend the professionalism of firefighters because the system is the people who intervene, coordinated, of course, by 112, coordinated by consortium managers – by the way, who seem to be a little missing here, but have a responsibility – and finally coordinated by public administrations that support the emergency management system. I think you've done a lot of things, Mrs. Peace. We're not going to look back, but in the year 2000, there were no more fire parks than the municipal parks in the seven cities. I think we've made a lot of progress these years. What else can we move forward? No problem. That's why it's been this meeting, which we've been waiting for, four months later, that they give us a single part of everything said by words, but nothing in writing, or with documents that support it. I think you've made an important effort, too. You'd refer to that on the subject of GES. Listen, we inherited a Grumir system that took time to change, but it's already changed, and that it now has stability and complements fire stations, both those in the seven cities and the parks of the provincial consortia in those places where there was absolutely nothing before, or, at most, a civil protection system that did not guarantee a 24-hour attention, neither training nor the media. I think we're getting a lot better at that, too. So you'll have to keep this in mind. I believe that the integration – and that you can also talk about – of the municipal parks, with all the problems, derives from the comarcallization and the problems we sometimes encounter – will also talk about that, and I have a question from the Socialist Group about this this this very afternoon –... to mobilize the firearms parks I think we must also put that into an integral emergency system. And I think we also need to take into account – and we've improved a lot – the groups of civil protection volunteers, quite forgotten by you, by the way, that I think they're making a very important effort too, and this year they've been endowed with very important means. So I think all of this has to be taken into account when it comes to emergencies. It's not just saying that the blame is for a system that you have contributed to create and that you continue to support today; that, of course, you will have there things to improve, but I think that in most cases you are giving an action – it's true – especially thanks to professionals, who act and go down to the ground, and you always have to claim their formation and their way of acting. But, in the end, it's a system of which we are all part; therefore, it's not worth criticizing it as if it were absolutely alien. In any case, I'm going to tell you one thing: the Galician Board – which will always be involved in the issue of emergencies – in the law – and you've already talked about the sale before the wound; "no, it's got a lot of evas," he hears, because it's good that he recognizes it a long time later – of the year 2007... the Bipartite said that the Galician Board would have the highest coordination in some specific cases. But it is the responsibility of emergencies that lies with the municipalities and with the deputies. That's why it's very easy, when there's an emergency situation, when there's something to criticize, always go to the Galician Union and never talk about those who really have the skills. We don't hide from our responsibilities, but we can't say that that's something... that if we're not going to solve the things that need to be solved. This is one thing of all, Mrs. Peace, you can't come here to put everything on top of the board of Galicia and say that we have to change everything or that we refuse to change everything – that we don't refuse to change anything – and that those who really have the competition just have to look elsewhere because it's always the Board of Galicia that has to respond to these things. So, look, you said you wanted to go to the bottom of the matter in your inquiry. By answering your questions, of course, we are – I am – very proud of the system that has been designed among all. We don't remember the emergencies more than when there's a case that really proves that it's always necessary to invest in them. I think it has greatly improved the emergency system since 2000 – in which there was virtually nothing – in 2016 – where there will be many things to improve, but much has also advanced. We can continue to improve, we can talk, it was the Galician board that opened this debate about the change in management of provincial consortia, but without telling people about it, putting papers on the table and proving that this change is really unmanageable and does not put the stability of the workers at risk, which today you haven't shown. From there, Mrs. Paz, don't let another year pass to register an emergency interrogation. We'll be delighted to talk about this when an emergency occurs and when it doesn't happen; this is always worth talking about. But you don't think it's only the responsibility of the Galician Union that governs the government. It's a direct, legally assigned responsibility for the deputies and the municipalities for a law you've made. I don't agree with that, the board has to get involved. This joint is getting involved, but what it can't take is to take the blame for all things and think that others don't have to get involved too, because then we won't solve anything at all. They've done a lot of things, they can do a lot more, but simply putting the blame on those who don't have them or, at least, they don't have them exclusively, they're not going to solve anything at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u233	Thank you, Vice President. Replica. Mrs. Peace.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u234	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Rueda, what I'm going to say in political terms: you're a true undocumented... and a true liar. [[Murmurs.]] It is undocumented because if you looked at the Journals of Sessions and the Commission's agendas, for example, you would know that for a year ago this parliamentary group even got approved, with the support of its group, a non-legislative proposal in committee a few months ago on this subject. I mean, that we're dealing with the subject sometimes more than when there's any sinister, so please just a little bit of rigour. According to the subject you showed, I don't know, I'm not going to qualify, but you have to have a face to come here and say that municipalities and deputies have fire powers by a law of the Bipartite. And then the local-based regime law and all that also made the Bipartite? You have to have jets, you have to have jets, because that's a state-wide law, which determines the powers of the local administration. And do you come to say that it is the fault of the law of the Bipartite?, which, by the way, we have already said that he had deficiencies since 2009, 2010 and on many occasions. Because to us, Mr. Rueda, it doesn't cost us as much self-criticism as you do or recognize that a law is not the tables of Moses, but that the laws are written on paper and can be changed when in practice it is verified that they are not operational or that they have deficiencies. Look, on the subject of Members, Mr Rueda, we could talk about the difference between model and system. You have opted for an emergency system that consists of different bodies depending on the different competences that exist in that field. But the model is privatization in the provincial consortia, and that's what the provincial deputies committed to. And you can come here and say how many barbarities you want in relation to the Provincial Deputies of the Crown, but I think that in less than a year since they took possession they've been much more advanced in studying the situation. Why do you know what I wanted? Yes, Mr. Rueda, do you know what you wanted when you called that meeting? Go over there and say, "Ah! because you haven't done anything, that's why it won't be done, don't even look at the possibility of rescuing the service for the public service. And since the MP has the explicit will to do so and to rescue it, he wants to do a very rigorous and well-founded study to be able to carry it out. And there's no doubt that it's going to happen. But I think to you in particular today that I told you very little about privatization and whether you were willing to collaborate in the rescue of services. I've told you more about the system, Mr. Rueda, of things that are up to you, because you're still the advisor and you still have the powers that the law, not only of emergencies but of others, entitles the Council of Galicia. And among those, Mr. Rueda, your competence is to develop the Emergency Law in the three aspects of what I spoke about earlier and which have a lot to do with what happened in the Fandicosta fire and in many other cases. And what I'm asking you is, are you going to homogenize the service, yes or no? And when I talked about homogenizing the service, I wasn't only referring to the subject of privatization, because the law talks about more things in the extra provision, it talks about the benefits that citizens receive, the working conditions and other issues. Will you make a territorial reorganization once it has been demonstrated on more than one occasion that it is a lie that there is an isochronous 20 minutes anywhere in our territory, yes or no, Mr. Rueda? That's why we asked him. And finally, when you're going to negotiate with the workers that fireman's regulation, what's one of the cornerstones for this to start working? And don't come to me with the roles of consortia managers. Consortia managers must be very important. Yes, because, in fact, in Ourense they will hire two; yes, yes, Baltar always on the subject of staff to the great: for two doors, 30 gates; for a consortium of four parks, 2 gates. When in the Coruña, which has twelve parks, they have 1 manager; in Pontevedra, the same. In Ourense, Baltar is always great. Look, Mr. Rueda, we already know that, as far as the non- privatization privatization model is concerned, the PP model is privatization, because Baltar has already said that he was the only one who would follow the privatized model. The rest of us are working to rescue the service. But you kept me here if you saw me – and we all have, Mr. Rueda, what happened in the fire...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u235	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u236	...from Vigo–... you come here to tell me about Pontevedra and Vigo when you told them from 112 to three times, even those of Vigo who turned around, when they left, and those of Pontevedra who came out told them to see who had sent them out to go to the Moaña fire. Even the president of the Galician Union said he wanted an explanation. Are you willing to give us an explanation to the Greeks and to the Greeks about what happened, yes or no? And, depending on that explanation, is he willing to negotiate with the municipalities, with the deputies and the workers changes for the system to work, yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u237	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u238	That's the point, Mr. Rueda.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u239	Thank you, Mrs. Paz. Shut up. Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Peace, look, you're a person who, when there's no argument, resorts to disqualification, insults... we have no idea... as an emergency expert, I'm not going to beat it. She's a recognized emergency expert, and she insults me because I have no idea; you know everything. With which, it's very difficult to do such a debate and above all to solve some sort of matter. Look, I'm telling you one thing: first, it's fake that 112 had sent anyone back; it's fake, you know. But he said so many things here without any rigor about the emergencies I suppose he'll say this too. And speaking of lack of rigour, he's fine, he ends his speech by saying that if we're willing to negotiate with the municipalities and with the deputies. But if that's what I just told you! Of course! always, if it's about improving service! What happens is that it clears the corner the theme of the commitment of Members, of talking about the change of the management system saying that, of course, they will give us a study. And I say, when? I just thought they'd already done it when they came to talk to us. It's just that they dedicated themselves to going through the fire parks saying that it was all very high school, that it was just a matter of giving it a button and it was already changing the system; and they came to us and they had nothing, they said they were just intent on it and they were asking if we had it. Let's say, yes, we intend to, too, but let's put these two conditions, which I understand are in the interests of workers and in the interests of public budgets. Oh, well, okay, well, let's accept them. The lady said... and she said, "Don't come here to tell me about the Crown Deputy." Look, it was the spokesperson for the three deputies who wanted to change the system, and he said calm down, that they would give us the papers right away to start talking. I want to say again – and here are the representatives of the workers, the firefighters – that we've been waiting for four months for them to give us a single role. And if they bring those papers and show them, without any problem, we'll talk about system change; it's just that you can't be questioned. So, more willing to negotiate than you're showing the Galician Union, what happens is that we don't tell stories or tell stories or say what we think you'll like to hear in every place if you can't do it. And if you can do it, we'll bring documents that support it so that there's no problem, so that it'll be possible. And what you didn't want to do because the indirect management system was upsetting, and now if you want to do it, well, let's talk about it. But don't say they'll bring us the papers. They need to know the firemen's representatives who will be there four more months, added to the four that are already added to all those months that they've been saying the system could change automatically and they didn't bring anything. With which, there'll be a legislate telling them more stories. We don't tell stories, we talk safely, and we're willing to change the system with these conditioners. And that affects a lot more, because you're talking to me about the fireman's Statute. Listen, I think things have already been done. In the law... you say, "Hey, don't tell me about the law." You made the law. "No, it's a very bad law." I agree, but you've done it, and you have to keep it while it exists. If you want, we'll change it. And you say, will you make legislative changes? So tell me if you want to change the law that you voted because I think you were a Member... so listen, if the law is so bad, let's talk about changing it. [[Murmurs.]] But, then, we recognize that that law is absolutely worthless, but we are fulfilling it. And what that law says, Mrs. Paz – I suppose you know it as an expert in emergencies – is that first you have to do the four consortia of firemen – we fix them –; you could do it by direct management at that time because you were governing the deputies who were ruling and voted for indirect management. [[Murmurs.]] It was also said that training should be approved and approved, and that pay conditions should be approved. Hey, that's it. That's why we're in indirect management tenders homologating the salaries, so they have all the same, that I agree that there can be no wage differences. And the last one, the fireman's regulation, will depend on you to clarify once, once, which management system will be implanted. If they bring the documentation that they said they had – and they don't – to address the system change, we will decide the system, and from then on everything else will be decided, and immediately you will have to go to the fireman's regulation, which is indeed a compromise of that bad law that you voted for, which now says that it is useless, that it has to be changed, that it has already said: don't tell me about the law, because I already tell you that that law is useless at all, and so we are, Mrs. Paz. Negotiating, of course, with Members; negotiating, of course, with Town Councils. I remind you that the GHG system is committed to the Galician Federation of Municipalities and Provincials. As for the isochrons, look!, that the GHGs finally agreed – it seems that it was imposed by the Galician Union – the GHGs and municipal staff, put in agreement with the municipalities, put in agreement with the deputies, who also pay for it, and when we understand that this is a system of all and that it is very good to come here one day and call me undocumented and say that I have no idea, you stay like a champion and do not solve anything; so the emergencies, on the other hand, not ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u241	Thank you, Vice President. Mr Ramón Vázquez Díaz and five other Members of the G.P. of the Gaga de Left Alternative on the application in Galicia of the revalidas provided for in the LOMCE
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u242	To formulate the inquiry you have the floor, Mr. Vázquez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u243	Well, good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. The first thing I have to say to you, Mr. Rodríguez – I tell you in this gallery, and I solemnly say it – is that if this were the government, a normal government, the government of a normal country, you would have to have brought your own request today before the purpose and the fiasco of the revals, especially in the failure of its application, of the revals LOMCE. I think at least we can recognize that what has happened in the last few weeks is not a normal fact and, of course, it is an educational fact, unfortunately an educational fact, in our country. Because you, Counselor, are responsible for the worst that can happen to an educational system. The worst thing that can happen to an education system is that you lose family trust, and you don't have family trust. The Greek Education Administration no longer has the confidence of the Greek families, because the families did not believe their story, they did not believe their arguments, and they did not because you lied to them, they lied to them severely. And that's unforgivable, because the principle of trust is the main principle that has to have an education system, because families leave what they want most, their children and their daughters, in the hands of the Educational Administration, confident that everything they do in school is for their children's sake. And it was not in this case – I have to say sadly – that he did not act on the benefit of children, children and families. So you broke the first of the principles of an education system: the principle of trust. You have led the families to the extreme of having to practice disobedience, to that limit we have reached. It led families to the situation of being forced to be insubmitted to their revals, because they were obviously aggressive, unfair, useless and, above all, anti-pedagogic evidence. And this mistake, Counselor, from my point of view, is absolutely unforgivable. I'm not going to argue here with you today about the figures. You recognize that the percentage of absenteeism has doubled on the day of the revamping, from 20% last year to 40% this year. The confederations of mother and country associations place the rejection of families on top of 70%. But, as I tell you, I'm not going to argue with you here today about numbers, you give the same thing, you don't mind. Anyway, besides, because we're all aware of the difficulty a family has, any Greek family, not to take their children to school on a working day. Therefore, we are located in the figure where we are, it is tremendously worthy of the exercise of civic responsibility that the Greek families have exercised. You failed, Counselor, failed in your fearful attempt to impose the revered LOMCE. You, Counselor, have failed, personally, in addition, in your blackmail, affected families through letters of extortion sent full of lies, because they do not contain true information, which is what the families of an educational administration expect. You played a lamentable spectacle, in a desperate attempt not to get hurt in front of the whole state, as you finally did. You were the councillor of the community with a greater rejection of the state's overthrow. Even today you have been disauthorised by the President of the Galician Union. The president of the Galician Union said today that the revolutions were evidences, controls – they believed to listen to him. He said exactly that the controls were voluntary, when you in this House 15 days ago said they were mandatory evidence. Contradense, clearly contradict. And the president disallowed you. You also stated in this House that the evidence lacked academic value. Finally, a whole sample of the discharge you've subjected to our education system. And instead of coming here to account for these serious events, you did a television and radio tour, of course – yes – worthy of mention, both in the media of Galicia and outside of Galicia. You were the star of your own failure. The last of them, of their media appearance, was on Galician TV last Monday, the day before, of course, of beginning the revals. In that television show, you literally said that the revalids were a tool for providing a comparative view of the system. I quote it textually, because I think it's all an euphemism to deny that the evidence is used to compare the different centers and define them as a tool for providing a comparative view of the system. At least let me consider it an euphemism. They said at the same time that the revalids are not to make rankings, but rather to offer a comparative vision. Of course, there's something out there that doesn't fit. They've surpassed the boundaries of the pedagogically tolerant, tolerant, tolerable for anyone who defends himself and understands himself as a Democrat. They tried to force 8-year-old boys and girls to perform an assessment test of more than five hours of duration, when anyone who dedicates to education knows that a boy or girl of that age loses their attention capacity exponentially from the first hour of work, and you underwent a test of evaluation of more than five hours of duration. You also spoke of the obligation to comply with the law, but that law does not concern you. I'll explain. The Royal Revalid Decree says that these tests must be applied by external staff to the centres, and in Galicia these tests have been applied by teachers of the centers themselves, which implies a clear bias if we speak of an external test. You were the first insubmitted to LOMCE, clearly, because you claim, by deceiving families, that revalids have no academic value. And I'm going to read Article 20.2 of the LOMCE, literally, where it says, "The student or student will enter the next course or stage whenever it is considered to have achieved the objectives and reached the degree of acquisition of the corresponding competences. If you don't, you can repeat once during the stage." And this article says: "The results of the individualized evaluation will be especially addressed when completing the third primary and final primary education course." Do they have academic value or have no academic value? LOMCE clearly says yes; you, however, say no, that they are not even part of the file. They violate their own laws, and they lie, as did their president, President Feijóo today. Up to that point, you despise the work of teachers, up to that point, they devalue the process of systematic formative evaluation developed in teaching centers. In their haste, Counselor, for bringing the revals forward at any price, they did not hesitate to take the educational community to the limit. A boy from Becerreá was punished two hours by leaving the revald blank, following, in addition, the will and homeland of his parents, his legal guardians. I wonder – and I would like you to answer here today –: Have you activated some kind of mechanism or research to clarify these facts? Why was a child forced against his will and why did he subject himself to a child's punishment to force him to make the revalids? I'd like you to explain today. You know that all this is a nonsense, you know that the revalids have failed, so all you have left is rectification. I think the Greek families would appreciate a gesture very much, just that today you had come up here and said, well, let's make some mistake, we make mistakes in the development of LOMCE, at least in the application of the revalids, and we understand that we caused, at least, some kind of disorder, and because of that disorder we apologize. Yes, people need the rulers, when they're wrong, at least recognize them and express their apologies. That's not going to solve the problem, the damage is caused, that's obvious. The loss of the confidence of the Educational Administration, the breakdown of that principle of trust has already gone ahead, but if you ask for forgiveness, at least you can have a minimal gesture to regain the trust of families. That's what I'd do today. It's enough of such prepotence. So beg your pardon, and acknowledge that the revalids are already meaningless, and therefore ignore the results of those applied this year, because they lack reliability, statistical value, since there are many centres where families have not done them, in centres they have been held with a certain percentage, in others with a different percentage...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u244	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u245	...and, therefore, in the face of this absence of pedagogical and statistical value, recognises its error and paralyzes this barbarity. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u246	Thank you, Mr. Vázquez. To answer you have the word, Mr. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u247	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are demagogy exercises, but there are real demagogy exercises. You said here a word several times that does not exist: revalid. There begins your mistake, there begins your manipulation, there begins your design of a wrong frame on what are evidence of evaluation. Look, that you and your surroundings – as you want to call it – sociopolitical or – let's say – your political galaxy, come here to accuse the Government or accuse the People's Party of what you've promoted, it's something like if a pyroman blames the fireman. It's really incredible that you come here to talk about tension, pressure, misinformation. That is – I insist – as if the arsonist blames the firemen. And look, there are issues you can't let go of. You say this administration lied, you say here in parliamentary headquarters that some information extortion letters have been sent to families. I have the letters here, I have the letters here. I'll leave you with the president. You find me a lie in these letters and tell the citizen where there's a lie, tell him. What's here is true information against the disinformation you and many more have given. And I'll give you a test. I'll give you a test. [[Applause]] Mr. Vázquez, do evaluations rank whether or not? You say here they're ranking. Now you tell me the truth, you tell me the lies. You did an absolute disinformation campaign, generalized confusion. Here it clearly says: "The only goal pursued by the PP is to be able to establish rankings among the various educational centres" – a role said by you, by your partner Xabier Ron on a press conference. You tell lies, you tell anything you want, but what is written is written. And look, you're talking about normal government. A normal government meets you, a normal government respects you and enforces you. An unusual political vision thinks the laws are to pass them through the arc of triumph, or to call insubmission or boycott. That makes political training unusual. A normal government, like this one, fulfills and enforces the law, the LOMCE. You may like LOMCE or not. I know you don't like LOMCE. It's legitimate that you don't like LOMCE. Now that you and your surroundings are calling for a systematic violation of the law, it's something unusual. You will have to do – and allow me the council – what you politically understand to change the law, and they are in your right. Now, to say that if you violate the law, make calls for you to violate the law, it's a true irresponsibility for you. [[Applause]] And speaking of lies and speaking of mistrust, I think, after what you've done here, trust I think it's absolutely broken. And he quoted a case that was also quoted in the morning. In Becerreà there was a boy who went to school, he didn't want to do the revamp, he was in the classroom, and so he was certified by inspection reports, and so he was certified by inspection reports that he was in the classroom doing activities, not evaluation, but doing activities. And that you use that data as a kind of pressure... but, please, we're talking about a decision that the family, their parents, wanted to make, without any more trouble, and that I would recommend to you, in any case, that they look carefully and read the inspection reports carefully so that they realize that they're simply putting their foot in it. And they talk about five hours. This too, I don't think you should let it happen. It makes you feel, so you say, by throwing a kind of dance, that the kids were five hours on a test. He almost said that, he almost said it. Three days, five hours in three days and with recreation. But, Mr. Vázquez, you say here you've been on a five-hour exam. Please, don't keep lying, don't keep trying to confuse people, that there are people of good faith who believe it, that there are people of good faith who believe it, that they at least doubt it. And in that they must recognize that they did their job well, there they did their job well, confusing and disinformationing. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But please be a little cautious, because, look, this debate is not a new debate. Look, you're a deja vu. You asked me here in April, in May we also discussed it, we had hundreds of debates in this House about assessments, about LOMCE. And what is a pure ideological debate, where unfortunately the damage is not for the People's Party or for the Union; the damage, the harm of their confusion strategy, are boys and girls; it's children and children; its ideological boycott leads to problems with children and children. Why? [[Applause]] Because they have an absolutely selfish stance, they think about their political interests, and they don't think about the interests of children. And that's what leads you to that pedagogic mistake -- I told you here. So, France, Norway, Sweden, England are some crazy hills, Mr. Ron, some real crazy hills. Because you're talking about pedagogic aberration. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Well, they'll all be wrong except you. So it's really a reason. But look, in the end, the lies are his thighs, and look, they can work in the short term, but in the end, time is the best judge. I remember last year, when you said there would be rankings, when you said there would be students' classifications in the 3rd grade primary. Well, look, did the results obtained from the primary tests last year become rankings? Do you have them around? Did they make rankings? I don't think so. Did they have any impact on the students' academic records? I don't think so. Did the kids pull out? He said they were crying, he said in this House a Member who the children were crying. The next day the press, just like today: the evidence was easy, even said it was fun. Yeah, tell him the media. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Now, what are they for? I'll tell you what they're for. For the Administration to have an X-ray, it has a map of the situation of all the centers, which are many educational centers in Galicia – eight hundred and peak – in primary. And what makes it possible for us? To put in place measures dedicated precisely to the fact that centres with more training weaknesses can improve. That's what revalids are for, that's confidence in the system, and that's betting on equal opportunities. And look, it's true this year – the criticism is old enough: you've criticized LOMCE, criticized the resumes, criticized everything, didn't you?, they're also criticizing the evaluations, because they depend on LOMCE – they've intensified, it's true; there was brutal, fierce pressure, very strong on their part. Home!, I suppose you won't have to see that increase of pressure with the electoral calendar, I want to think about it; I want to think that you have nothing to do with anything else and that you act in good faith, I want to think about it. Because if I don't think so, I'd be thinking they're using children and girls for their political struggles, but I want to think they don't; I want to think they do it because they really believe what they do and believe that evaluations are harmful, as in all the countries of Europe -- they're all harmful, good -- and they're not going to use it like this. But what is true is that this year has greatly intensified an approach that is absolutely contrary to assessments. And I think that ideological rejection at the end doesn't really do children any good. And look – I told you – LOMCE may like it or not, but a serious government must comply with the law. The Greek classics already said it: we have to defend the rule of laws and not the rule of men, because if we don't get into arbitrariness, if we don't get into something like Venezuela, don't we, where the laws don't matter, do whatever we want, nothing happens. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But look, we're going to comply with the laws, we're going to be responsible and we're going to put in place measures that are possible and which, above all, are designed to improve those students, those centers that have educational weaknesses, watching for equal opportunities. That's what we really want. And look, there's another very clear argument about his politicization. So until two years ago, there was a diagnosis test in 4th primary, almost identical to that in 3rd primary, except that it was a socialist government. I haven't heard anyone say anything against this assessment, and now it seems that the birds of the trees fall, doesn't it? Of course, like that was a socialist law and this is a popular law, because there seems to be a big difference. There are two differences: the first one, which is given information to the parents – the other one was not given to them – and the second one is that it takes a year earlier to detect the weaknesses and be able to act. That's really his demagogy, which eventually gets very lame.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u248	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u249	In any case – and I'm going to finish –, ladies, there's also a data I'd like to highlight. Mr. Vázquez said that Galicia was at the head of absenteeism. Look, in other autonomous communities this evidence was done, without any kind of problem, without any problem, both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, many now governed will do so. So, what's going on in Galicia? Why in Galicia was there this riot, there was that boycott campaign, there was that campaign of insubmission and other autonomous communities, wasn't it? I wonder if it'll have something to do with the electoral calendar, perhaps. But what is true, and there I will – and finished, Madam President – recognize a merit. Look, you have a merit, and you can be proud. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] First, they were able, with their boycott campaign and with their political harassment, to pose a measure or raise a shadow of doubt about a measure that comes to harm – their non-application – families and, above all, to harm students with more educational needs, which will be deprived of an opportunity to improve the system. And in the second question...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u250	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u251	...which I'm going to give you and which I think you must be very proud of, is to deliver a message to citizenship, and especially to the most children, that, well, the laws don't have anything to do with them. I think that's a great merit for you, to try to enhance the idea that a law, if I like it, if it meets, and, if I don't like it, it doesn't work. I think that's your great success and I think that for these two great successes...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u252	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u253	...should ask many, many apologies to the families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u254	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Vázquez Díaz has the floor for the replica round.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u255	Well, the truth, Mr. Counselor, one, who is of a humble nature, feels a certain shame, shame all around, listening to you. Yes, yes, yes. [[Murmurs.]] You attach too much importance to us, we are not so important, Counselor. You've got some sort of chasing mania with Alternative Left-Galga. You accuse us of causing widespread confusion, we are responsible for their failure. This is very curious. And you accuse us of – say – causing national uprising. We're not that important, Counselor. People have their own criteria, it's something that you haven't just put in your head. People have the ability to discern and people have realized that you were lying. People realized that you were defending your plot and not defending the interests of the children, and that's why they didn't go mostly to the revalids. Don't accuse us of the right of families to defend their children's rights. You didn't, you weren't able in ten minutes to do the slightest bit of self-criticism. Man, I think what happened -- like that one said, what happened -- is something important, right? I think you don't have too many precedents, at least in Galicia there's not too many precedents that an educational community, massively, stands up in the face of an order of a government, which even bothers. If revalids are so normal, why do you send letters to families? Do they usually do with any educational procedure? It is not common – I am a teacher –. Why did they do it? Why was it necessary? Because they knew what family positioning was, and it's not our fault. It's your responsibility. You exercise as ruler, as head of the educational administration. Don't throw balloons out, don't blame us or blame families. Take it, do a minimum of self-criticism. Did you miss something? Have you failed at all? So tens of thousands of parents and mothers are completely disturbed? This is very curious, this is very curious. You have a very strange way of understanding democracy from now on. Mr. Corredoira, whom you had to cease fulminously the day after the interview you gave, accused the Greek families of being anti-systems. So far they only accused us of being anti-system, but in the face of their failure, of their despair, they also now accuse families of being anti-systems; everyone is wrong, except you, Counsellor. It's very serious what happened, and you know it, not only in Galicia, but throughout the state. He says the children didn't cry. Well, I don't know if a lot of kids cried. I saw many children, I spoke to many children who recognized, who claimed that the evidence was tired and long. I can prove it, I can prove it. You say... that the injured is not the Greek Government, that the injured are the families. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] And I'm even more concerned about this. Like the injured are the families, who didn't make the revalids? Do you want to make it clear that teachers, that the formative evaluation that teachers systematically make in schools doesn't guarantee the educational progress of children? Do you want to understand that? Do you want to sow the doubt to such an extent of our education system as to say that if in this external test the evaluation of the centers is not sufficiently effective? If you trust that volume, up to that point, of our education system, of course I think you should resign. You say there are many countries that apply revalids. Look, the pioneering countries in applying external evidence were the Anglo-Saxon countries, which are discarding these tests. They have already detected the known effect teaching to text, which is nothing other than what teachers do, so that their students don't have bad results in rankings – yes – in the internal rankings that you have, because based on the results they do educational programs, because they help the kids that the tests do well. That's it, and more when you don't comply with the law, making whoever applies the evidence is externally personal, as it's an external test. This is scientific evidence and that effect is contrasted. Tell you that the children didn't cry, and I'm going to leave the evidence to you now. There are six chairs – 6o–, six chairs, 120 pages, 217 exercises applied simultaneously. You do it tonight, try the medicine you've prescribed to families and you'll see for yourself how useless it is. Nothing else, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u256	The Councillor for Culture, Education and Universitary Order has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u257	Well, Mr Vázquez, I understand that you are a Democrat, as we are in this House, and as Democrats we have some duties and obligations and maybe we have a different way of understanding what democracy is or at least in acts at the end you see, right? And of course, a basic principle of democracy, to avoid arbitrariness, to avoid abuse, to avoid many of the issues that we all reject, is that the laws are respected. The fact that a political representative or a number of others systematically call for non-compliance of a law is a very serious matter. You disagree with LOMCE; perfect; you have all the right of the world. You can manifest yourself, you can do whatever you want, but calling for a law not to be complied with is a genuine irresponsibility. [[Murmurs.]] And look, you're talking to us about what it's like or it's not usual. Look, I've already shown you, like many other statements that were seen in the press -- I've got a little file here -- you've been a long time polluting with lies, polluting with lies. There are many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many. You talk about ranking, you talk about segregation, you talk about always, always, with a certain interest, don't you, Reval, and you say we send a letter of extortion. I insist: I object to what I said before: take the letter and look for a line of non-compliance, look for a line of lies, and I, against that line of lies, will bring you this file or many more, where we see clearly – and it is really sad that we have to report this directly to the families – as there was a planned, organized campaign, absolutely lying and absolutely based on falsehoods to generate confusion, to generate confusion. And of course, you get here and try to say in my mouth things that we said and that you say we say, and it stays so wide. Someone mentioned in this House that the children would cry, and it was neither this party nor this government nor this councilman, it wasn't, it was someone in this area. Well, then why do you say I say it? [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So don't put things in my mouth that I didn't say, because what you're doing here and what you've done here is a real exercise that I've already summed up before: it's as if the arsonist blames the fireman that there are fires, absolutely the same thing. Because the force, the interest, the motivation that has been made by many captainate formations and with a clear political vision by you have led to the creation of an authentically false idea of what the evaluation tests are, which – I insist – are done with a lot of normality in many countries of Europe, which you always mention – Norway and Sweden, for example –. And look, I ask you, are you satisfied with the results of your boycott? Are you satisfied? Are you pleased to tell families that they don't comply with the laws? Are you satisfied? Are you pleased to say – one, two, three hundred times – that there would be rankings in the centers, when there are not? Are you also pleased to say that these evidences would count on the files when they don't count? Are you happy that you've been scaring families, parents, mothers, stress, cruel evidence? Are you satisfied? Are you pleased to say that this is a pedagogical aberration, that it was a distasteful of the professor, when in the most advanced countries in Europe it is exactly the same? Are you satisfied? Are you happy to try and say that you only do it in Galicia and that you haven't done it anywhere, that you don't do it anywhere? In all autonomous communities they have done, in all, or they're going to do; in the governorates on the left they change his name, they change his name in the governorates on the left, but it's just the same. Are you pleased, Mr Vázquez, to promote many meetings where political charges have tried to be be belittled and calling the boycott constantly for non-compliance with the law? Are you satisfied? If you're satisfied, you know that you're happy to be clearly harming families and being clearly hurting children, and essentially children with more educational difficulties, because we missed an excellent opportunity to have a complete X-ray of the educational system so that we can implement improvement measures, as we did last year in the 3rd primary tests, which we can put in place more than 69 program contracts with reinforcement programs, reinforcement teachers, especially thinking that no child or no center is left behind.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u258	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u259	If you're satisfied with what they've done and the consequences of what they've done, we really don't have much left to say. But, in any case, they know that the pressure generated by you had that result and that, in the end, as usual, time gives and takes away reasons. And if you want to be a democracy or participate in an approved democracy, there is a fundamental principle, that they are to comply with, to respect the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u260	Thank you, Counselor. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] There was no allusion, you have no word. No, no, no, no allusion, no word. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] You don't have the floor. There was no direct allusion. If I may, if I may, you have no word. Mr Pablo García García and two other members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the policy of the Galician Union in the field of forest fire prevention
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u261	Mr. García García has the floor to make an inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u262	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Counsellor, good afternoon. This time we came to talk about forest fires. I think the counselor used to refer to that of the pyromans extinguishing the fire, and I think it's a pretty clear example on this subject. I think it's obvious and I think it's obvious that it's one of the structural problems that we have as a country and I think it's also – and maybe that's the only thing we've ever agreed on, and I think it's the whole world, which, however, is because as a country we haven't been able to cut through all these years and put a solution. It is true that everyone has their share of responsibility, and you have been ruling in this country for thirty years; therefore, they have something more responsibility than others – I say –. And indeed, this is a structural problem. Structural why? Well, first, by the numbers. You can twist the numbers as you like. If we look at the figures for the last thirty years, Galicia has on average more than half the forest fires in this country. You can look at the number of fires. We can call them – fires – in three or four ways, as you do, if we're changing the nomenclature, from small fires, cones, fires. We can do as we please: by acres, by number, by number. The fact is, we choose the parameter that we choose, Galicia goes far beyond any average parameter from the rest of the state and from areas that can be similar to the Greeks. And besides, it is done systematically, that is, not that it was a concrete year, a concrete lustro, but that it has systematically – I repeat – in the last thirty years. Structurally invested in this matter as well. We have often given the figures around here, depending on the year, to 100 million euros/year we invest, and if we add up all the matches that are directly and indirectly related – speaking of the Rural Media Council – to forest fires; that is, 100 million euros per year over the last thirty years, that is, 3,000 million euros, we have spent on this matter in these thirty years. It's not a despicable amount, not much less. I think few tips and few pieces on one subject have absorbed so much of public budgets. It's 3,000 million euros. I always do a calculation. If all the wood in this country costs 500 million euros, in just four years we buy what we invest each year all the wood in Galicia. We therefore have a system that for any economist of what is usually mentioned in this House by honourable Members, because it is totally unsustainable economically, that is, because it is not sustainable to continue spending that amount of resources. We can make another account: 6 million a year, 2 million hectares likely to be exploited forested; that is, in these thirty years, it is a cut of a wood, for example – from eucalyptus is quite less – but one or two, we have invested on all those hectares 1,500 euros/hectare, that is, almost urbanized by 1,500 euros. And all this for what? To have the country as we have, because after having invested all this and having made all those accounts and having spent all that vast amount of resources, well, because we would have had to move forward – I understand – in this problem, and the case is that we haven't. What, therefore, are the causes that have led us, that we understand that they follow us into this situation? From our point of view, and I think that from the point of view of all these experts too, even when you do some, years ago, since you ruled no, but at the previous stage of government of you even there was once that this Parliament has done a minimally rigorous work on this problem and coincided with the diagnosis: abandonment of agricultural activity, depopulation, no doubt, when year after year thousands of farms, even those that you say nothing happens and that it is something normal and normal and it is even good because the rest is professionalized, well, because we are directly involved in this problem. When there has been no such thing as a land management policy or land mobility policy, we are clearly focusing on this problem. That is to say, in the last thirty years there is no country, no European region compared with a decrease in the number of agricultural assets in Galicia and, however, that land and territory has not reverted to those remaining holdings, or has not reverted to the extent that it should reverse. So we have a problem with, besides expelling the young people from this country, besides creating unemployment and all that sort of stuff, and getting more and more rural in that misery, well, because we have a problem with managing that territory. Nor does there exist a true forest policy, because a true forest policy, Madam Counsellor, is far from the policy of afforestation, monoculture and monocolor that is being done by this government too, and therefore there can be no such policy of land management. If there is no forest management or land management policy, there can be no such thing as what should be at the heart of the problem and what we should attack, which is a prevention policy. In view of whether we agree that this is a structural problem, it must shorten any structural problem with structural solutions as well, and for us, and from our point of view, that would be the way of shortcuting it and would be fundamentally based on prevention as the fundamental one. But you've been working in the opposite direction for these thirty years, and you've been acutely pursuing these seven years of Feijóo's government, working in the opposite direction; that is, your applied policy – I repeat – especially these seven years is absolutely against all this that we've just talked about, is based and it hits face-to-face against that diagnosis. You have a model that is obvious to prevention, that little prevention activity is done about the role of access to European funds, but that does not mean by far a planned or structured prevention. A true prevention policy is very much, Madam Counsellor, to clean the roadlines, to unravel a certain number of hectares of public places – we all know what they are, party camps, river pools, etc. – It goes far beyond all that. And of course prevention is far from unraveling these same acres and same sites, those same places, so you can access those public funds. That's not, by far, I think, prevention. The question would be – so if you look for different results, do not always do the same – if you expect any different results for this year, since you are a counselor. I'll tell you if it doesn't rain. If you expect it to rain like two years ago, we hope you don't do as your predecessor, who then came here in September to tell all Members that we were all like goats, because it doesn't rain anything all summer, when all Galicia was quite aware that it rained unusually even in Galicia and that it was a very good summer as to the number of fires and as to the burnt surface where it rained. But in any case, if it doesn't rain, and if you have any plans other than... Santa Clara's so it won't rain. I suppose there's a saint, because there's always a saint for everything. Then I suppose there's a saint to rain, which can also be taken to eggs or any other sort of thing to rain. But in the case of having another plan... by the way, you know that, even if it rains, that is, if it rains all summer, let's imagine, you'd still spend 100 million euros, even if it doesn't burn a single meter of mountain. Even if it rains from here to September every day of the year, you'd still spend 100 million euros, exactly the same, doesn't matter. But if not, I'd say, do you expect anything different? I mean, if a normal year comes, it rains like rain in this country, the sun comes, the heat comes, that those days of wind are also mixed with moisture... are you expecting anything different from that situation? Because he's been in government for a year – well, almost a year –. You have introduced changes to your computer. When it comes to balancing the fires, it will take a year; and therefore you have introduced changes in many respects. None for the better yet, but you have introduced changes. However, on this subject he wasn't even able to change the director general. I asked him quietly: do you know this subject? I mean, is this topic above the Rural Media Advisor or Counsellor, whoever the People's Party is? Whoever the People's Party councillor, the fire prevention and extinction policy will follow, and this country is resigned to it that it cannot even change?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u263	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u264	Well, I think so, Counselor. Why? You are not to blame, because of these 100 million euros, basically, you have made such a large package, with so much money, created so many political and economic interests, of privatization, of companies, that make it impossible even for the Rural Environment Council to act on this subject. You seven years have dedicated yourself to privatizing, fragmenting, dispersing and undermining the public service, in opposition to what I said earlier, to privatization, against Seaga workers...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u265	You have to finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u266	...in favour of hiring private companies and creating municipal brigades. You seven years have dedicated yourself to having a less professional, less operational, much less effective, but much more expensive device. I repeat the question, because it has them in writing. Above all, I'd like you to tell us, or answer me, if there's any news or we're going to depend on whether it rains or not, which is what you did with your predecessor. When it rained, there were fewer fires, and when it didn't rain, there were many more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u267	Thank you, Mr. García. The Middle Rural Counselor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u268	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Garcia, there are things we've agreed on and not in others. I can get through a lot of things in this life. And as far as the countryside is concerned, if I have any respect for it, of course, it's the fires. And I respect him because, when there's a fire, it's known how it starts, but never how it ends. And there's no fire if there's no incendiaries. And so here, apart from the organization, we have to have control, and in that organization and in that control I hope to have the duties done now. Regardless of all this, and if we mix who they are or are not professional, to me so professional are the municipal brigades, which I respect, which do a commendable job, a job beside the fire, which is fundamental to being as close as possible, as the Seaga brigades, Tragsa, or the same officials who have the Rural Council. For me, about all of them and each of them. Apart from all this, we also agree that, indeed, the forest area is fundamental in Galicia, especially because two thirds of our territory is considered hilly, it is considered foresty. Therefore, the jobs derived from the forest area, between direct and indirect, are close to 70,000 and, therefore, we agree on the importance that it can have. But it's also very important for the first processing industry, the furniture industry, which we can say in 2015 its billing was 1,177 million euros, of which more than 700 million euros are for export. Thus, progress has advanced, and much, in recent years. But it's true that I'm not going in for the kid to say since year and until year the number of fires and hectares of forest that have been burned. Simply, by way of summary and conclusion, they have decreased substantially. And they have diminished by the policy of prevention, but also by the awareness of the staff, which gradually acquires that consciousness, especially seeing that with the restockings the forest is life in Galicia. And that's where we have to go. And now, I'm telling you a little bit about the kid, after those five questions that were raised and that I have in writing, what is being done and how far we want to get there, telling you that tomorrow will be presented at the Council of the Board of Assembly the Pladiga; Please note that, of course, it was previously presented to the Forest Council, in which everyone there had the opportunity to make their contributions, from which several of them were taken into account. Because the problem of fires, the problem of the Greek countryside, the problem of the forest, not only of a councillor, it's not only of the Government, but of all the Greeks and Greeks, and that's why it's convenient to have the input of all of them. As you well know, within the actions directed to the territory and collected in the Pladiga, the following are established, among other things: Selective control of forest fuel, which is non-productive but of great importance for its preventive and defence character. These are works specifically aimed at breaking the horizontal and vertical continuity of the forest mass, with a width such that in normal conditions it stops the fire and serves as support for the terrestrial media to carry out the direct or indirect attack from these areas. As examples, we have the cutting areas in which we work all year round, not only in the months of May, June, July and August. No, it's a continuous activity all year round. There's the auxiliary fringes, and there's the scraps as well. In addition, the maintenance of preventive defence infrastructure is carried out, which is fundamental to the mountain value, as well as the monitoring, arrest and extinction of the fires. And here we have to make a parenthesis, because it is often said that little or nothing serves – or at least that I thought I understood – the sketches that are made on the farms and on the roads. And those are fundamental, they're fundamental, on the one hand, because they give security not only to travellers, but to those who travel along those roads and roads, but they also provide security because it's one way that when there's a fire, they don't jump from one side to the other. With these actions, what we're trying to achieve is an optimal density within what infrastructures are and, on the other hand, the improvement of reaction times, through a network of clues that allow quick and safe access to the extinction of fire, breaking the horizontal and vertical discontinuity of the fuel. For example, at the moment, different works are being committed, for example, in the Lobios area, for more than 300,000 euros, so they can make it easier for them to access, among others, a motorcycle. As well as the capitalization of the mountain and thus facilitate its economic activation and its social, rational, environmental and, above all, economic dynamisation. I'll then remind you of the budgets, of course, of the Council of Galicia corresponding to the Sub-Direction on Fire Prevention and Defense, reminding them that there are other parts which, although they have a more productive function, do not cease to have preventive functions, as could be those of the Forest Resources Sub-Direction. In 2015 – and I'm talking to take an exam, and then I'm telling you what's going to happen in 2016 – Galician Union invested approximately €22.1 million for preventive actions directed to this territory, 7.7 million is through direct investment or through the Galician Union, 7.9 million through collaboration with 264 Galician municipalities, and 6.5 million through the provision of aid to neighbouring mountains in common order to carry out fire prevention work. This assumed that with the actual media of the Galician Union, with labor contracts, with collaborations with the municipalities and with grants, preventive actions were carried out on the ground of approximately 45,500 hectares. The work carried out was selective forest mass control, and it should be pointed out that 36,000 kilometres of roses are included in auxiliary strips of runways. In 2016 the direct investment allocated for the development of actions for the prevention of forest fires is approximately EUR 6.4 million. Divided as follows – and increasing in other lines–: It's in the process of collaboration with the municipalities, which increases the game by 8 million euros. And we've been doing it for three years, so that the municipalities can organize how they do their prevention and ongoing work. There is an order of aid to neighbouring mountains in common and Sofor for an amount of EUR 4.8 million, and we are in the process of enlargement up to EUR 6 million due to the great demand. All of the above will assume that the 45,400 acres of the previous year will be added to the selective control of the 36,650 acres. Of course, we know that in Galicia it rains a lot, and rain also assumes that the forest mass grows. I mean, it's not because it rains or doesn't rain, it's because our conditions are for good or for bad. What's going on? That surely for you, if it rains, there are no fires; if it doesn't rain, there are fires; but the forest mass leaves it a little away. It should be borne in mind that, in addition to the preventive work carried out by the Galician Union, it must be remembered that in Law 3/2007 of 9 April, prevention and defence against Galician fires, owners are required to manage biomass in their properties, within the biomass management lines, i.e. a 50-metre-wide strip around urban areas, rural nuclei, urbanizations, housing or isolated facilities. We also have GHGs operating all year round, prevention tasks, biomass management network definition actions, property research that are often not registered, and biomass status, as well as preventive forestry actions. It's 24 GES, 288 troops and 11.5 million euros putting the Rural Councillory. And then there's the investments made directly by the Autonomic Administration. And as far as these investments are concerned, an allocation is made at the provincial level according to the importance and strategy for prevention and area in public management. And I can get to know them, too. The criterion is as follows: in Coruña, 15%; Lugo, 35%; Ourense, 35%; and Pontevedra, 15% of the investment. Within this allocation, by forest district and according to preventive planning, priority is given to according to previously established timely actions. There are calls for regulatory bases in competitive competition – case of sulphur – and agreements with public bodies. This provincial assignment is also made according to the brigades, and they opt for all the municipalities that so require. And this year they're going to have brigades from every county that asks for it. Finally, I would like to stress – as has already been said – that at an increase of EUR 1.2 million in the amount of grants destined for prevention, others must be added to damage caused by fires in those mountains, which are in chapter VII, to meet a wide demand. Because that's how it's going on this year. There's an important conscience and that consciousness is to make the mountains completely productive. Both municipal brigades and Seaga brigades are forest fire prevention and defence brigades and are professional, both municipal and Seaga, and Tragsa brigades. And fire prevention work takes place all year round, focusing on the time, of course, in which the disease increases. And right now it's raining but it's growing weeds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u269	Thank you very much, Counselor. Replica roll. Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u270	Thank you, President. I thought we'd agree more, Counselor. But today it wasn't necessary to assume millions, which is what you always do here. I already said it was 100 million. You don't think that's 100 million a year? Do you think there's little money spent on this? Are you still pretending to be over millions? I say it's a real barbarity. I don't think that's the point. The point is, with those 100 million we spend every year, when we get out there without even getting off the car, going down the road, we see what's going on. And we see how ordered he is, how managed he is. Counselor, so I deduce, you're not doing anything other than what you've been doing. He didn't say anything new, all those measures already but told me his predecessor last year. What did he say? "Control of forest-mass fuel." How much control of forest-mass fuel did you have, your advisor, last year at the Qualedro? How many fuel control strips were open? How many accesses were clean to burn 1,500 hectares? That's where no one's passed on to fuel or control anything 15 years ago. How many quaaledros or how many 1,500 hectares continuously without any kind of management, without any control, do you have right now in this country? Do you know that? No, you and no one know. What did the 16th district do – I say for being my people – these three months? What did you do the previous three months? What are you doing today? Do you know that? I'm not saying you know now here, I didn't ask him. No, he doesn't even know who told him. What's the work stadium? What work plan did you make this year for that district control? Do you know that? No, you have no idea, they have no idea... They don't have it, how will you? And I'm not saying if the job is even real or going to discuss whether it's real or not. You don't have a role in what this district staff has done in the past year, nor did they have their predecessor in the last seven years. You have neither you nor your predecessor had it in the last seven years, nor what you did last year or the previous year or the other; nor what you're doing today or what you're going to do for the year. So don't come here to sell me motorcycles. The Pladiga is a simple cut and grab. He takes his Pladiga this year, which I haven't seen him yet, but I'm sure he's clicked on the one seven years ago, updating the dates, of course, but nothing else. So don't come and tell us stories. What did you do last year and two years ago, especially in the main fires or those that draw our attention? What have you done, for example, to protect our most disadvantaged areas, our special protection areas or our natural parks, our areas that should have special protection? What are you doing to keep Mount Pindo from burning again? Nothing. It burns every six years. It's not his turn yet, calm down. What have you done or are you doing to keep Eume's strawberries from burning back? Nothing, absolutely nothing. Those are the questions. I mean, since you got to the government, have you tried to change this? If we don't, we'll go back to Santa Clara's. If it doesn't rain, it'll burn more, and if it does, it'll burn less. Of course, what happens to you is how you went before, and if you do prevention is to unravel the clues, turn off and let's go. I know that the grass grows more at this time, even to ensilate, so it climbs now and not in the month of January, because now it grows much more the grass, of course. But prevention of taking out a few things is a lot of difference. [[Laughter]] Because I don't ask you to unravel the 1,500 acres of last year's Qualed, it's absurd, it would be crazy. [[Applause]] We can't take the decoupler and uncouple this country. What there can't be is 1,500 acres together without any kind of management of those 1,500 acres. And that's what was in the Qualedro. And I'm talking about Cualedro because it was the last big fire we had in this country. For example, I don't ask you to pick up a decoy and clear up the 1,500 hectares of Cualedro because that's not prevention then. Making prevention is that... And, of course, it's the incendiaries' fault, of course, yes, man!, of course, it's the incendiaries' fault without a doubt. But what we're going to have to look at is, if there's an incendiary, you can't burn 1,500 hectares, and you can see if you're burned 2 or 3, or 15, because you have some management elements, some human elements and some technical elements...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u271	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u272	...so they can burn only 15 or 20 acres, or 50, but not 1,500. I'm not saying that we have to unravel the 1,500, there's no need. It takes prevention and management of the territory, and that's not to unravel the tracks, it has nothing to do with it. That has nothing to do with unraveling the breasts, which I am not against which the clues should be unraveled. But then saying that that's prevention, he said it in his forebear, and that he couldn't unravel now because he was raising the grass again. If the problem wasn't the grass that grew in the quailedro, and that the grass was a little high.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u273	Finish, please, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u274	It's not like the football fields, see if the grass's a bit high. No, it wasn't that I was too tall in the quaaledro, was that, you know, that wasn't the point. I haven't been there for many years. So if you tell me that everything has been done as always, I say, nothing has been done. I'll give you the district data whenever I want, because this is very small. I see the people in the district of my town...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u275	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u276	...and the other one sees what is done in his village. I mean, there's no-- but if they don't have any tools! Do you know they've been working all winter because they don't have the equipment? Counsellor, that is, in addition to publicly speaking in the newspaper...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u277	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u278	I mean, I'm not telling you anything.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u279	Thank you, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u280	They haven't worked this year because they don't have the equipment. So what are you talking about? What are you talking about? I hope it rains, Counselor, I hope it rains.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u281	Thank you, Mr. García. Mrs. Rural Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u282	Mr. Garcia, I'm going to give you all sorts of jokes and pirouettes, and on top of the jokes your comrades laugh when we don't talk about fires. When you run a council and, therefore, you have to stand by a fire and see the danger of workers, volunteers and homes from there... please stop laughing and start working. [[Murmurs.]] It's very sad to play with the fires, but it's still much sader to name a district and ask what the hell these people are doing. Mr. Garcia, you're telling me that the people of the districts, that the staff of the Rural Council don't scratch it. You're telling me they're cross-armed and they're doing nothing. [[Murmurs.]] You're telling me that, since they have absolutely nothing, to see, here neither parts pass, nor if you know where they are, if they go for a walk, if they're looking... Home!, a little serious and a little respect for the staff of the Galician Union, a little respect. [[Murmurs.]] [[Applause]] I was asking myself several questions and I brought the answers here. Among other things, how personal did we have, how much was it for district, what was it doing? But I see that here just what matters is a little bit of theater and a little bit more. But I'm going to follow my line and I'm going to tell you that we have 2,273 public employees -- and they do their job, believe me they do it -- 387 forest agents, 65 technicians and 1,821 workers. And already, as it seems we don't know about anything, because I'm going to tell you how they're distributed and what they do, even though I think we have to come and say this here. But let's start. Ferrol district: agents, 17 technicians, 3; labors, 78; total 98, a great job. District 2, Coruñas-marinos coruncas: 20 agents, 3 technicians, 83 labors; 106 in total, and a great job that they have done. Santiago interior: 21 agents, 3 technicians, 111 labors; in total, 135, a great job and mine for all of them. Let's keep going. Barbanza: 21 agents, 4 technicians, 75 workers; a total of 100, they also work. The following: 18 agents, 3 technicians, 65 workers; total 86. And so gradually. They do a work from January to January and a job of true professionals, a job that they see, and they see everyone taking a walk through the rural Galician, which suddenly seems that you're not from the Italian countryside except to make a little comic and tell when to ensile, when you don't have to ensile, how you grow up or how you stop growing the grass. Regardless of this, I'll tell you that the total number of them are 2,273 professionals, that the equipment for personnel prevention and extinction is composed of staff officers from Galician Union, technicians, and technicians are also distributed in stations, watchtowers, driving motorcycles... and I'll tell you that this government is worried about them, too, because for many years it hasn't been invested in what you've been investing this year, which has been more than 11 million euros for the change of the various motorcycles and for the safety of the staff. To secure them, to secure the people of Seaga and to secure the people of Tragsa, just like the same security that the GES have. All the brigades do fire prevention and extinction work with full control, which goes from beginning to end. The device works at all times under a single command, because with this it privatizes everything and what disorder there is... believe me, there is no disorder of any kind. I did experience some mess by being mayor and ruling others, I did. But with fire I'm not going to make politics, with fire all I'm going to do is work and more work. That's the reality. They ask about the balance of the work done. The Galician Council and this particular councillor are not going to be satisfied, of course, while there's only one fire. But I also tell you that I have the line of every year of the number of fires and the number of hectares, which has declined considerably. That's a job for everyone, no doubt. [[Murmurs.]] But, in addition, in the preventive actions which are exposed, in a certain way, doubling the productive investment on the mountain. The budget went from 24.9 million to 50 million euros. In this area, we highlight the sections for the implementation of silvopastorist, agroforestry systems and the conservation of genetic resources, among many others. In fact, and given the important interest generated in this sector, today a credit extension of the forestry order has been published, from 2.5 million euros initial to 5 million euros. In addition, over the next few days, the credit expansion of the forestry order will be published, which amounts from 6 million to 11 million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u283	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u284	What do you mean the number of fires has been reduced? What does it have to say that the burnt surface has been substantially reduced? And what do you say we won't be fully satisfied until there's no more fires? No more, I mean, you don't play with fire. And this council, of course, won't play, won't make politics. And what I have to do is a public compliment on the professionalism of all those who work in the fire brigades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u285	Thank you, Counselor. We move on to point 7, questions to the Government. Question by Mr Abel Fermín Losada Álvarez and three other Members of the G.P. of the Socialists of Galicia, on the view of the Government of Galicia regarding the criteria followed in relation to the intervention of the firefighters of Vigo in the fire extinguishing at the factory of Fandicosta, in Moaña
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u286	To put the question, Mr. Losada Álvarez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u287	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm actually going to pick up the last words of the rural councillor and say I'm not going to do politics with the fire. I promise I won't take any picture with a camp hose and nautical shoes; absolutely no photo with this. [[Applause]] Before the Vice-President of the Union said, he valued, as this government always does, the qualifications of the opposition Members. I recognize that I'm not a fire specialist and emergency specialist, but, well, I'm calm because you, who's a local administration secretary, understood that I didn't have very clear the powers of the city councils. I'm sure you had them clear, another thing is that he had been in favor of his speech ignoring them. I'll talk about learning, too. Look, in 2009, in May 2009, there was a fire in an industrial polygon of Artexo, and 18 industrial ships were burned. The nearest fire department was the town of Coruña, 3 kilometers away, and yet the fire department of the Manganese Artexo park came. I insist, the result: the practice of destruction of the industrial park set, 18 calcinated ships. Unfortunately, Mr. Rueda, in these seven years the learning process seems to have been scarce, which was slow, because the other day, indeed, in a company, Fandicosta, in Domaio, in Moaña, next to housing and next to a gas station – as you sure know well; not one, but two, on each side of the road – produced a fire and, indeed, went out in the media – you will know the headlines –: "The Galician Emergency Agency prevented Vigo firefighters from coming to Fandicosta's fire until an hour after it started." He had to say, on the part of the firefighters of the comarcas parks that were already there, to Vigo firefighters: "I'm only going to tell him once: warn his bosses and send everything he has, also towmens, because he's going to blow up everything" – among other things there were two ammonia tanks with 5,000 liters each of them–. Well, actually, it had to be the owner of the company who had called the Vigo firefighters to ask them to help put that fire out; it was twice told since 112th, from Galician emergencies, to Vigo firefighters who didn't come. Mr. Rueda, don't shake your head. Here's the fire department report. I understand you're used to making headlines in the press, but in this case I have here the report of Vigo firefighters. I, if you want me to tell you, give Vigo firefighters more credibility than Mr. Vice President of Galician Union. So, I would be grateful if, at last, to manifest this skepticism in relation to professional reports, it seems to me, at least, thoughtless, that you are so sensitive to the professional considerations of the opposition. And, of course, this policy...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u288	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u289	...–Friendly, Madam President—in my opinion only three explanations can be made: incompetence – which is possible – and arbitrary – and you know perfectly well that I am speaking to you – or bad faith, or another, defense of the pure interests of private companies, who are the managers of the fire department parks in Galicia.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u290	Thank you, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u291	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u292	The Vice President of the Board has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u293	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Losada, you say you're not going to do politics on this subject, then it begins as your intervention begins and, of course, as you want to do politics, you forget something I'm going to do, which is, speaking of the Fandicosta fire, to recognize the intervention of the professionals who played life there, both extinguishing the fire, and then preventing the escape of the ammonia deposits, which actually existed there. I think it's fair and, therefore, I want to do it. From that point on, at the end of your question, you end up with a question that says: Does the Government of Greece consider that emergency services in Galicia must put the general interests ahead of any other kind of interest? As it is an obvious question, I give you the obvious answer, I say yes, that, indeed, of course we consider it, and I am sure that you too, even if you want to make politics with this question. I'm also going to tell you another obvious thing, since it's obvious: politicians don't extinguish fires; I suppose you'll know that too, even though you want to make politics on this subject. Politicians don't extinguish fires. I understand that also, listening to the mayor of Vigo, some citizen may think it's the politicians, or the mayor of Vigo, who runs the trucks, who decides and evaluates the risks, which says how many polls they have to go every place, but no, Mr. Losada, they're the technicians, they're not the politicians, and, if we understand this, we'll understand a lot more things. Another thing is that the responsibility of politicians, of course, is to make the means available so that when there is an emergency the population is as well cared for as possible, and it always has to be enough attention. I understand that Mrs. Gallego, when I talk about Vigo, gets nervous, but she's asking Mr. Losada; therefore let me answer him. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] So, what I'm telling you, Mr. Losada, is that, like not, this is not a political issue, what we have to put in the media. I think he's gone very far, I told Mrs. Peace at the interpellation. What there was in Galicia in the year 2000 and what there is in 2016, thanks to the collaboration of all and regardless of how the system is managed, I think it's quite meritorious, and that's what we have to do. Then it's up to him to know who really knows about this subject, that we're neither you nor the mayor of Vigo, despite some statements he made at first; it's true that he was later rectifying, I suppose because, in addition to seeing Vigo firefighters' report, he also saw 112 calls. And in the 112 calls, it says what's said, and I suppose, in the end, someone would actually tell you what's going on, and that's why he modulated the speech. But, in any case, I ask you to speak of this with rigour to see that it can be improved. We are the first ones to say that the protocols could be reviewed and, of course, we need to review them whenever there is a fire of this magnitude, so we won't fall into things like what Mrs. Paz told me before – that I'm sorry I'm not – why didn't the GES of Round it be warned? Because the Roundup GHG doesn't exist because the PP government is in minority and its party, the Block, and the independent group have prevented it from having a GHG in Roundup. That's why you couldn't go to the Round GHG. Of course, when he accuses us not to call the Round GHG, he doesn't exist because you voted so that he didn't exist, because that's very hard to agree with. I'm going to tell you that we've been waiting for many months to see if you can improve by also changing the management system. Mrs. Paz has just said that the reports were not yet, but that, when they are done, she will tell us. That's a little in contradiction to what Mrs. Silva said, which says we've been reporting for four months. When they agree, maybe we can talk about this seriously and not make politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u294	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Losada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u295	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr. Rueda, the difference between making politics with fires in Parliament and doing it in a fire of boy scouts with nauticals is obvious. I'm sure you're getting there yourself. What's true is that on three occasions for an hour 112 denied the arrival of Vigo firemen, who are eight hours from the fire, and sent firemen from Cangas and Ribadumia... 8 minutes, sorry. [[Murmurs.]] Well, actually, I know perfectly well that I'm at Agora Athens and, therefore, excuse the mistake. I will read what Mr. Feijó said on this subject, and, if you draw any conclusion that is not political stupidity manifests, then, well, yourself. He said, "The Emergency Coordinator Service has to explain whether its protocols were properly activated and whether everything worked immediately" – 15 days ago, we are waiting for that explanation. "You have to give explanations about the schedule" – we're waiting; perhaps you have it, I, of course, asked and I'm going to ask for the 112 calls. He thanked the fireman's work, particularly Vigo's, and that they made themselves available to the emergency station -- it's not that they made themselves available, that they skipped the order of the emergency station because literally the fire reached the ammonia warehouses. Then it would be nice if the President were told the things as they are. Mr. Feijóo, the Board is analyzing and seeing the calls, and then the paradigm of socratic philosophy: "Who mobilizes Galician firemen are Galician firemen." Let's see if they agree. Either the technicians or the firemen. Finally, I insist, quote textually, and no one has denied it. I recognize that I have the media to do this. Then he said another one of them, and he said, "The Morrazo firemen turn off the Morrazo fires." All right, that's also a strong cold of what is a coordinated emergency system that prioritizes public service, citizens, facing, in this case, real stupidity – I insist – politics. Then he also said, in connection with Vigo's mayor, "It's always necessary to seek guilty in order not to take responsibility." Well, it'll turn out the Fandicosta fire...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u296	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u297	...is the fault of the mayor of Vigo, who is already what we were missing.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u298	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u299	Then he said something else, too. He said he would make no distinction between firemen for his work centers. And here's the trick, it makes no distinction between firefighters, but it makes distinctions between the system, which one, Matinsa, is FCC, and Vigo's is municipal, is public.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u300	Finish, please, Mr. Losada.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u301	Do you know who I'm talking about, Mr. Vice President?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u302	Thank you. Replica from the Government. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u303	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Losada, this isn't Agora Athens, but it's a place where, when we talk about emergencies, man, we have to speak with some rigor, really. I thought you knew the 112 calls. So you're talking here about what happened in 112 and you recognize that you have no idea of the calls? Well, I know the Vigo fireman's report, of course, but the calls to 112 don't even know them. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] He comes to ask a question about an operation without knowing what it was like... about the mobilization of an operator... If I had asked you to ask this question, I would make it easier without any problems. [[Mr. Losada Álvarez pronounces words that are not perceived.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The fact is, you're here to talk about the mobilization of an emergency operation without knowing the mobilization of the emergency operation. And, of course, that's the way it says things, and above all that said things that some political officer of the Vigo Town Hall said, specifically the mayor, because we're talking about it. Look, they never told the firemen to turn around. Vigo firemen are the first to get the call. They never were told to firemen – their mayor if he said so – by Vigo that they turned around. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] They were never forbidden to act, never. Look, among other things, first, because firefighters don't need permission to act, and they know it perfectly well, and 112 can't stop him. Therefore, they were not ordered to turn around, nor were they forbidden to act. And the mayor of Vigo is true that he first said what he said, even though he didn't want to do politics, and then he was modulating that brake pass. Perhaps he himself passed the 112 calls, the operation, then he was modulating the speech and finally recognized that the problem was that, when Vigo firefighters decided it, they were finally waiting for 50 minutes to be told to leave. And in the end, they didn't even wait, because they came out, knowing the call, the first ones. That's the reality, then you can tell us if you got 112 calls... and I don't mean it, because the first thing I did -- what you didn't do in the first or second intervention -- was to recognize the professionalism of everyone who intervened there, starting with Vigo firefighters, but the calls say what they said and the system is what it is. But, look, there's no problem. It has also been said that the problem that Fandicosta was burning – it has been insinuated – is that there is an indirect fire-fighting system in Pontevedra province – well supported by you too. I'm sure it's not so, but let's go, if you think about it – because at some point, it's been insinuated, and, of course, not from this bench or from members of the People's Party – because I don't know what we're doing waiting so long to receive these famous papers. And, in any case, if the problem is the mobilization of Vigo firefighters, look, I tell you one thing, 112 immediately proceeds, following, by the way, instructions – indications, non-instructions –, indications and public demonstrations of Vigo mayor, and from now on calling, whenever there is a fire of magnitude in Vigo municipality isochron, even if it is outside the municipal term, Vigo firefighters, and informing them of exactly what happens, and then Vigo firefighters or political leaders – who seem to be the ones who make these emergency decisions in that municipality, listening, I say, the mayor, who is a more political leader – who decide whether to leave or not. From now on 112 will always call in the isochrona, and the Chief Emergency Officer will contact the concierge responsible for emergency in Vigo to make him manifest and tell him that, following what the mayor of Vigo says, from now on he will do so. Look, in the meantime, let's be serious. If we have to talk about changing the model, let's do it too; let's be clear between you if we've got the papers sent, if they haven't sent them, if indirect management is the one that causes fires, if it doesn't provokes them, because while they don't talk between you, they don't finally come to any agreement, and when you don't reach an agreement, it's almost as much as talking about a loser pact, and the loser pact these days, you talk a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u304	Thank you, Vice President. Da Ana Belén's question Pontón Mondelo, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the reasons of the Galician Union to prevent professionals from making guided visits to the Greek heritage catalogued as well of cultural interest
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u305	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Pontón.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u306	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rueda, I wanted the truth today to begin by moving at least the surprise that the cultural advisor is not here today to answer a question that directly affects his responsibility and that once again they practice the policy of ostrich, to hide against the problems and not face, because I am convinced that many of these professionals wanted to know – the professionals who are working in the field of culture – that they have to say the Council of Culture when they are being prevented from doing the work they have just done and that they have nothing to do with tourism, but have to do with the management of heritage. In any case, I don't take it wrong, because I know, besides, that you are a great expert, not only in emergencies, tourism, motions of censorship, even in the management of cultural heritage. In any case, we're here today moving a problem that created the Government of Wales and which, in addition, is a problem that denotes that they have an ankylled vision of what the management of cultural heritage means. And it's a problem where, in addition, they're putting on the ground an opportunity to create wealth in our country linked to the management of cultural heritage. You know that right now there are professionals, archaeologists and archaeologists, architects and architects, staff licensed in geography and history, who have come to do a job linked to the value of cultural heritage and are being prevented from doing it. We've come to the absurd – and understand me, because these are real cases, I don't know if you know them; in any case, I can introduce to the people you're going through – that an archaeologist – and I'm not going to reveal the names – who makes some diggings of a castle wants to make a visit on those excavations to explain the archaeological, historical, cultural work behind that visit, and can't do it, prevents him from consulting his office. Does that sound normal to you? Do you think this happens in some country that really sees that the management of cultural heritage cannot be reduced to a purely touristic issue? As I know also that you like to manipulate and twist our words, I want this to be very clear: since the BNG we have absolutely nothing against which to regulate and professionalize the work of tourist guides; it is that we feel good. What we don't understand is why you put obstacles to the work that other professionals do, which has nothing to do with tourism, but it has to do with the management of cultural heritage in our country, impoverishing, limiting, the capacity that has our heritage. Because, Mr. Rueda, heritage is not unique and exclusively a place for visitors to come; the heritage of the Greeks and the Greeks we also have to meet, and we do not want to be tourists in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u307	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. The Vice President of the Board has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u308	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pontón. I know you won't like what I'm going to tell you, but whenever you refer to the fact that you don't like the government member who comes to answer a question, I say the same thing: from 2009 together it doesn't work in pond compartments; therefore, there's coordination and there's no problem where one comes to answer when he has competences. This also has to do with tourism. We operate cross-sectionally and there are no problems or rivalries that prevent coordination – I say since 2009 –. So that's why I'm here. From there, look, I think there's a little noise about this that needs to be clarified to understand what the reason for the decision of the Galician Union is. You know the Law of cultural heritage, it was passed a month ago. They promised – you did – to waste as soon as they had occasion, as Mr. Romeo tried, as he said this morning, to sit in the chair – which should be treated as President of the Union. So, as long as it is not derogate – and I hope it will not be derogate for many years – what this law says is that "the Galician Union will promote knowledge of the cultural heritage and of the activities and measures to protect it through the appropriate public campaigns of dissemination and awareness-raising with the assistance and participation of the professionals of its study, conservation and dissemination." So it's not to be prevented, is that the Galician Union has an obligation and, of course, it will exercise it, so that these professionals can do this study, conservation and dissemination activity. Another different thing is the profession of the tourist guide, indeed. Since 2011 this profession – this condition that you support and that you agree to be consolidated – defines them as professionals who, duly qualified, regularly provide services of assistance, support and information in cultural, artistic, historical and geographic matters to users and tourism users in their visits to museums and other cultural heritage assets in Galicia. So, Mrs. Pontón, one thing is that this activity is usually developed, that it is the usual source of income of the person who does this activity, and another thing is that an archaeology professional or a history professional wants to do, as you said, visits or guide or explain a lay in which he worked. You don't have a problem with that, but it's only to exercise as a tourist guide. So nobody prevents these professionals from spreading the heritage; another thing is the tourist guide, which is also based on boosting Galician tourism, which I think we're all interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u309	Thank you, Vice President. Mrs. Pontón has the floor for the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u310	Look, Mr. Rueda, I think the first obligation you have as Vice President of the Union is to know what the problems your government is creating for citizens of this country. And today there are problems – I told you a very specific case – because there are people working in the field of cultural management who are being prevented from doing guided visits, even for example, when they were directors and directors of archaeological excavations, who have threats of sanctions from their department, when they are doing a work that has nothing to do with the role of tourist guides, and who are doing heritage management. And do you come here to tell me that there is no such problem? The professionals who came to this Parliament didn't just talk to the Bloc; they talked to the PSOE Group, they talked to the AGE Group and I don't know if the People's Group received them or not. You also know that in that law, in the Heritage Act, they are not given a solution, because the article you just read is very detailed that the underlying problem has not been solved, because all you say is that in the outreach campaigns they can count on them. But we are talking about being able to explain on-site and, therefore, to do a pedagogical work, which is fundamental and that is done in all developed countries in the world. Look, we're in such an aberration that we have not only those problems related to which archaeologists cannot explain the deposits, but we also have problems with, for example, people in theatre and literature, who are doing theatrical visits and those that you're putting into your department problems in order to do so. An architect, Mr. Rueda, will not be able to make guided visits to a historic center if he is declared as well of cultural interest. I ask you, does this seem reasonable to you? Do you not realize that you are creating a problem where there was not, that you are limiting the knowledge, the dissemination, the cultural enrichment of our people and that you are also limiting an activity that, from an economic point of view, is of great importance and that it should be even more important in our economy? Of course, Mr. Rueda, I ask you here today is a commitment that you will review this situation and that you will be given a satisfactory solution, because what the tour guides do really has nothing to do with what they can do professional art history, geography, archaeologists and archaeologists and architects. Listen, you're demanding this sector, and don't come here to sell me smoke, because those who are watching this live or those who are here today in the gallery that are affected by this situation know what the reality is. What I'm asking you is that by commitment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u311	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u312	...with the least commitment we have to have with a rational management of our heritage – I don't care if you are Mr. Román – solve the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u313	Thank you, Mrs. Pontón. Replica from the Government. Mr. Vice President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u314	Mrs. Pontón, look, reality we all know it, and I'll set an example for you yourself. If an architect usually refers to himself – since that is his usual activity and his usual source of income – teaching a cultural asset, because then he is not working as an architect, he is doing another work, and there comes into play another law that defines the activity as a tourist guide, for which I suppose he will have the same respect as he has for these professionals. I have respect for everyone, but they're different activities. So that's how they're regulated. And I'm telling you again, when it's not normal or it's the main source of income -- and it's defined by law -- these cases are not given. Of course, if they were giving, they wouldn't have to be giving. And they'll be sporadic, well, very good. I'm telling you what the law says and what you have to enforce the Galician Union. And if there's any case on time, you lose care that it will act accordingly. Now, if what you're trying to say is that to develop this activity in a habitual way, being the usual source of income, whether you're an architect or a historian or an archaeologist, you don't have to get accreditation as a tourist guide, listen, because the German Government disagrees and has regulated those conditions in a law. And if you think that it strengthens these professionals or strengthens Galicia's tourist potential by saying that there is no need to obtain this accreditation and that the nearly million tourists we have foreign, travellers... you know that tourist guides are asked, apart from a series of knowledge, who, of course, know the two official languages, who know another foreign language and who have a series of knowledge about cultural and tourist resources that can be connected to the area, and that can also be done by these professionals who get accreditation. Since the beginning of this year, obtaining accreditation is true that many people have obtained it directly by titration, by the magnificent schools we have here, but it's also true that there are more than 100 professionals who have not obtained it directly and who have obtained it through these tests. If you think it's a favor for the professionals, who do a favor to Galicia's economic dynamization through tourism, who ultimately does our development a favor saying that there are a number of people who in order to be able to do this work have to have accreditation and that others don't just have to get it, well, we're not going to agree. So I encourage these professionals to further improve their training, and if they do it sporadicly and have some problem, of course, that the Council of Galicia will have to act. Look, if you don't, in the end, you know what I'm saying? That you, if you don't go with the times and the future, because you'll stay in the past and eventually the archaeologists to whom you'll end up studying are the BNG; what has been and what has become. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u315	Thank you, Vice President. Question from Da Noela Blanco Rodríguez and two other Members of the G.P. of the Galician Socialists, on the staff recruitment policy envisaged by the Galician Union to reduce temporality
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u316	To put the question, you have the floor to Mrs. Blanco Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u317	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon, Counselor. We had recently known a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice in Galicia, where workers in the forest service who had been performing fixed staff support work in Galicia during the summer period were considered undefined. Unfortunately, this example of abuse of temporary contracts is not a particular case, it is a general case in the Greek Public Administration since the last few years. Today I'm not giving you data from union power stations, I'm going to give you data from the IGE; I'm going to give you official data, even knowing that many of them are made up. Well, if we look at the IGE data from June 2009 to the same month of 2015, we see that the reduction in the number of staff in the state and official jobs increases to a total of 5,820 public employees. And by giving you some specific data, in the office, in this period, there is a reduction of 2,757 jobs and there is an increase in the temporality of 1,137; i.e. personal hired in precarious, personal hired day by day, by months or by other formulas, but of course, in conditions of absolute precariousness; either temporality or jobs that end up being amortised to be subsequently replaced by private companies. In these years public employees have repeatedly denounced this situation, even now the pharmaceutical public health inspector's staff has been on strike since May 18th; a staff who is responsible for ensuring something as important as environmental public health. A situation of this – temporality and precariousness – which has led the Socialist Group to present many initiatives so that the Galician Union no longer behaves as a temporary labor firm and begins to behave as a public administration that should watch and that should dignify the work of employees and public employees, a work that is fundamental to maintaining that in which, of course, the socialists believe, that it is equity, equality and, of course, social justice. If with this data the precariousness of public employment is undeniable, the question I ask you today, Counsellor, is very clear: will the Government change its recruitment policy to reduce timeliness or will it follow the path of precarious public employment?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u318	Mrs. Blanco, I would like to make it clear that your question will be answered by the rural councillor. Counsellor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u319	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, I am going to answer this, but in the field of what is my responsibility, which is that of the rural environment and that of temporality. I don't know if there's been a misunderstanding, but if it's okay with you, I'll answer this question. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Until 2011 for the reinforcement of the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service, the Galician Union was hiring, at the beginning of each summer campaign, prospective temporary workers under the specific mode of work or service – of course, you were also doing so in the four years that they ruled, or rather, out of government, Galicia. These contracts were of a potential nature and did not guarantee workers their employment year after year. And this way and year after year before the start of each campaign, these staff were faced with three uncertainties: the first one, whether they were hired or not; the second one, in case they were hired, they did not know the start date of their service; and the third one, of course, did not know what would be the duration of these contracts in each campaign. Under this apparent eventuality and this uncertainty, the reality was that this staff was necessary for all summer campaigns, for it was a real and structural necessity, as it was recognized even by the courts, and that their eventual recruitments were all at best improved. Therefore, in 2012, the Galician Union sought a solution to this problem by reinforcing on a fixed and structural basis the Forest Fire Prevention and Defense Service during the summer season, and to that end it created 436 jobs for fixed-term benefit for three months in summer campaigns and coverage of these 436 jobs for temporary workers, under the form of inter-internity. With this measure 436 workers gained job stability, because from 2012 they had the confidence to work each campaign and, in addition, for a certain period of three specific months, July, August and September. So, and by the way, we must add to this that this solution has been endorsed by the Supreme Court of Justice of Galicia, which is precisely recognizing the character, indeed, indefinite, of the current workers, who were eventually hired, and also by you, for successive summer campaigns, because they come from irregular recruitments. Now and over time, time returns, and therefore the effort that the Council makes in this sense is evident.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u320	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mrs. Blanco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u321	Thank you very much, President. What is lacking in respect of the German Government to the opposition to a question on the agenda of a plenary, which is very clear: does the Greek Government plan to change the recruitment policy of the administrative staff to its service in order to reduce timeliness? I was not asking in this plenary today about the specific case of the Fire Prevention Service, about those workers and workers who are now undefined discontinuous. I am asking, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Party, a very clear question. [[Applause]] It's not enough for me to answer the rural councillor, but to see him running out of the plenary to the Vice President of the Union, responsible for the Greek civil service. It's outrageous! It's outrageous what we just lived right now in this plenary, Counselor! If you want, I'll tell you what, "I don't yell at you I don't see you," because you come to answer something I didn't ask you, which I'm not asking at this plenary, Counselor. I'm not asking you about the Fire Prevention Service, I'm asking you for all of the employees and public employees who are now in precarious conditions, something where you just need to get out into the real world to see what's going on, to see, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party and gentlemen counselors – those who have stayed, not those who have escaped – who are what's going on. What's going on is something as easy as going to the scientific method and seeing an observation of reality: seeing doctors jumping from health center to health center one day, that one day they're in a health center and another, that when you want to take vacations, they can't because, if not, they're going to the last job on the recruitment lists. It's as easy as seeing teachers from public centers covering school dropouts on the side, yes, from children and girls to whom they're not being taught. Today, of course, I have just lived in this plenary... and forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, because this is a Member with an almost year of experience...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u322	Finish it, please, Mrs. Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u323	I didn't know that there was, of course, a government so unserious and that I had so little about the questions that the opposition raises.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u324	Thank you. Replica. Counsellor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u325	Thank you, President. Thank you, Madam. So, if we read the explanatory statement, it speaks of a court ruling that has just brought back the Galician Board's recruitment policy, this time concerning the staff board of the Forest Fire Prevention Service, which, prior to 2012... and, if they want, I'm still reading, because there is a time when this is already impossible. [[Murmurs.]] On the other hand, he doesn't know the organizational chart very well because he doesn't depend on the vice president; and he hasn't run away, of course, so clearly. I mean, there's an exposition of reasons that makes reference unique and exclusively to a sentence, and that sentence is from the Fire Prevention Service, with which, I'm going to continue with my answer because I understand that I belong to myself as advisor to the Rural Environment...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u326	Mrs. Blanco, a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u327	In this same year, in order to resolve the temporality in the Forest Fire Prevention and Defence Service and, as you well know, Decree 19/2016 of 25 February, which approves the offer of public employment corresponding to employee and labour markets of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of Galicia for 2016, approves in particular the offer of 188 posts for the Fire Prevention and Defence Service: 94 posts for free access and 94 posts for internal promotion. I can tell you, in addition, groups and I can tell you the categories: Group 4, category 033, for drivers or drivers, motorcycle, forest fire defense; in Group 5, category 10B, fixed-warner/forest fire defense fixture; and forest fire defence issuers and forest fire defence pawns. Ladies and gentlemen, an OPE for Fire Prevention and Extinction Service has not been approved since 2002; that is, for fourteen years. So, summarizing, the answer to his question and focusing on the explanatory statement and therefore talking about fire prevention: since 2012 Galician Union has begun the change in the recruitment policy of this staff, first, creating the 436 posts, which already guarantee and give stability to summer campaign support contracts, and, on the other hand, convening in 2016 94 posts, and other 94 posts for internal promotion, reflecting and recognizing that Galician Union is making an effort towards these collectives, which we know are necessary and essential. As far as the economic situation has permitted it, it gives priority to the workers who will see after the summer if they are involved in a way that goes beyond merely professional in the fight against the fires that are fires and which involve forest fires. Thank you very much, and I don't think it's completely argued why I'm the one who answers this question because of the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u328	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Antón Sánchez García and five other Members of the G.P. of the Alternative Galaga de Esquerda, on the opinion of the Board of Galicia regarding the decrease in the increase of wages to the gross domestic product of Galicia
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u329	To formulate the question you have the word... [[Murmurs.]] Mrs. Garcia, we'll get this straight. Anyway, you know that the Government responds in solidarity, so... [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] Quiet, please! Mr. Galician, you have no word. [[Mrs. Gallego Calvar asks for the floor.]] Mrs. Gallego, you have the floor. What's the matter? Is the question the lady's question...?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u330	The question is that I understand that the Government of Galicia, which knows well in advance of the questions that are raised, regardless of what the explanatory statement of motives...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u331	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u332	...have enough experience to send to answer that question to the person responsible for the matter, which is no less the advisor to the rural environment.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u333	All right, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u334	And I think, by answering the way you've already answered, it's a lack of respect for...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u335	You got it, Mrs Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u336	...The Socialist Parliamentary Group. So please don't ever happen again.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u337	You understand, Mrs. Gallego, and you will also be clear about what I told you earlier. So we turn to the following question, from the Galga de Left Alternative Group, about the opinion of the Galician Union on the decline in wages to the German gross domestic product. [[Interruptions.]] [[Murmurs.]] Silence! Mr. Gallego, you have a call to order. Well, he's got a call. [[Mr. Gallego Lomba pronounces words that are not perceived.]] Mr. Sánchez García has the floor to put the question.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u338	Good afternoon, Counselor. In the morning Members of the People's Party were offended when it related their party to corruption. I give them advice: do not kill the messenger when the messenger tells the truth. The People's Party is a structurally corrupt party, and if they don't want to say these things the most effective thing they can do is change and act against corruption. The last case of avalanche of corruption cases affecting the People's Party is the reform of the headquarters of Genoa, paid with black money, so they demand 1.2 million euros of bail. Then they are very strict with the taxation of the workers, of the returned emigrants, with the taxation of the below; they must have a lot, but a lot of expensive, to do these things later. Gürtel, Punica, Pokemon, Pikachu, Mouse, Bless, Bárcenas, Baltar, Pachi Lucas, etc. And with all this, I don't know if I'm making anything up... I don't know if I'm making something up... [[Interruptions.]] [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] If they want to solve this and I don't come here to tell them these truths, they change, act and stop being a corrupt party, that's what they have to do. And now, in the end, they'll wait and understand this exhibition of reasons because corruption probably has nothing to do with the reality of the material conditions of people -- to me. For me, the worst corruption the People's Party is doing, using institutions, to make policies that benefit a few. That's the worst corruption you've ever practiced, because you work for a few. The policies you've developed over the past few years have proved to be unquestionable: here some are reinforced from the crisis, and most of them have paid for it. It is no coincidence that this figure reflects evolution, the weight of wages with respect to business benefits. This peak is from when you got here. Wages were 48.6% of GDP, which today is 44.4%, and as you see, the corporate profit curve has risen above wages. And this is no coincidence, it's the result of their policies, which benefit a few and harm the majority; it increases poverty, it increases inequality, it loses workers, it wins businesses. The weight, in addition, which represented the sales of the 2014-2015 work has fallen, its relative weight, despite the fact that official data speak of 21,700 busy, and that means that there are people who find work, but that work does it in much worse wage conditions. Not only have thousands of jobs been destroyed, not only have you forced emigration into thousands of young men and girls, but they have led to the massive appearance of the poor worker. The only working group that grew up with you was those who earn less than half the minimum interprofessional wage. And with all this, Counsellor, how do you feel about this situation and about the evolution of wage data with regard to business benefits? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u339	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. The councilman of Fairy has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u340	Mr President, allow me to begin my answer by clarifying your question, because in the text of the question there appears a very repeated inaccuracy by you also at the end of your first intervention. In this regard, I would like to remind you that the breakdown of GDP by income is made up of three elements: the remuneration of employees, the gross operating surplus – mixed and gross income – net taxes on production and imports. In relation to the second element, the gross operating surplus, gross mixed income, what does it include? Includes the corporate income of financial institutions, companies and companies not constituted in companies belonging to the household sector – please reply to the definitions given by the ESA on the subject. Within the latter, the income is recorded on its own account, which presents the characteristics of both wages and wages, as well as benefits for the work carried out as entrepreneurs. So we're talking about autonomy, and you should know that in all those amounts that gave the latest data, what they say is that in gross income, mixed income, we're talking about 28%, almost 29%, which have that component linked to self-employment. For this reason, it's not strictly neither remuneration nor exclusive benefits, so it's known as mixed income; therefore, please try not to play with concepts when you talk about corporate benefits versus confronting employees' wages. So, Your Honor, I would like to ask you that it is not right to name this concept of accounts as a business benefit, first question. But I don't consider it appropriate to generalize, either, as you ask in your question, but the most rigorous thing is to get into the background and analyze the variables that affect the different branches of activity. And if we analyse data in depth, both in the primary sector and in the industry and in the construction sector, we're at positive rates -- not in the service sector. But even within this, with a fall of 1.2%, it turns out that there are branches of activity that are positive, while other branches, curiously, are in negative, deeply negative, as was the very specific case of real estate, information and communication and professional activities. But on the other hand, especially in the trade, transport and hospitality sector, it turns out that we are in a positive position. So we have to look at these two issues, as I said, when we make an approximation. At the same time, what was confirmed once by the voices of certain parliamentarians or parliamentarians in particular, let us never forget that we were in a phase of recession, the phase of recession from which we began to emerge. But it's still more. If we look at the period 2000-2014, it turns out that the average share of the Greek wage was 80% of the Spanish average, and at this time, in 2014, we are at 84%. So when we analyze the best thing, and even after a very important stage of economic recession, that's what we have, 80% versus 84%.(02.03) Does that mean we're happy? Not at all. But by no means from a question that is fundamental. Do we have to continue to work to improve the weight of the GDP's increase in wages? Yes. As a result of that? That the crisis situation has begun to improve at the end of 2014, we consolidated it in 2015, and obviously in 2016, as will be checked in tomorrow's data, we continue on the right path. I think we all have to go this way together. But, please, in conceptual terms, I need a little more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u341	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Sánchez García has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u342	Counselor, I already know that you have the exclusive heritage of rigour in the data, yes sir! And you had to make a big turn to say nothing and not to say anything that had to do with reality; you had to escape. Your balance, for most of the population, is bad; you were a ranch for this country. You told me about the primary sector. How can you tell me about positive data in the primary sector, if you destroyed one of the three jobs you had when they arrived? How can you tell me about the industrial sector, if you destroyed one out of every four jobs you had when they arrived? How can you tell me about employment, and give me a lesson on what you're hired, what you're autonomous, what you're like, when you've destroyed 20% of the hours you had since you arrived? How can you tell me you're improving the data when we just found out that the poverty risk rate has grown by four points? How can you talk to me, when people are tired of knowing that, even if I officially get a job, can't you live? How can you tell me about positive data when I told you that the only work group you've been able to improve is the one that earns less than half of the minimum interprofessional salary, which when you arrived was 14% and today is 18.5%? You have condemned poverty to thousands of Greeks and to thousands of Greeks. Tell me about it. Tell me about that model that we all know – because we see it on the street and the statistics say it – of that model that you have implemented, of benefiting a few – as for example, it also reflects another statistic, to see if it doesn't have rigor – that it's the big companies of more than 200 workers, which created 3.7% of jobs and, instead, lowered wages by 0.1%. That's the model you're building: that of the poor workers. And the reflection of the work reform, which you got what you wanted: changing the distribution of incomes. And the tax reforms that you've made, the fall in the burden of corporate tax and the increase in the weight that you have to pay all the Welsh and Welsh taxes, the working people. For example, ever since you arrived, electricity, gas and other fuels have increased by 31%. Report of the ESC. Water; garbage, sewerage and community expenses, 21%. The 16% teaching; the primary and childhood teaching, 14%. Transport, 13%, etc. All of this has increased that affects the working classes, and wages have come down. How can people live in this country with their policies, Counselor? Tell me about it, and don't come to a college class, and a pretty bad university, Counselor. And don't laugh, Counselor. Don't laugh that this is very serious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u343	Thank you, Mr. Sánchez. Replica from the Government. Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u344	Thank you again, Madam President. Of course not. At most, I can smile, but never laugh. And less of you and the arguments you're trying to transfer. I'm much more humble. I am willing to learn from everything, even what you can tell me about a matter like this, which I think is not the normal scope of your professional knowledge. But I have the same respect as if I were. By the way, there was a time when he made a reference to the risk issues of rising poverty rates and people at risk of poverty. Of course, we feel less relieved than this indicator shows, but I also tell you the same – you should also read certain newspapers – please read a certain journal, closer to where Mr. Losada normally lives, where the other data is clearly seen, which is extreme poverty, that this is serious, and it turns out to present some of Galicia's best data. So statistics have to read them, but read them all, please. [[Murmurs.]] What if I want to move you is that, after this stage of crisis that began to recover in 2014, in Galicia we are very pleased with the effort we are making, not only the Government, but the citizens of Greece. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] I think that's the right way. For what? To increase the occupation and also to increase the participation of employees in the GDP that you had previously pointed out. I think that's the right way. And the data is analyzed from 2008 to 2015 as it must be done, without any bias, it would be perfect for the four stages that exist: where first there is a fall in gross operating surplus; where a second step affects occupation; where a third affects even hours, and now we are starting to recover. That's what's going on, if the statistical data provided by the Galego Institute of Statistics are analysed without accuracy. Go ahead and we're very happy, as well as we're very happy that in your argumentation, in your explanatory statement, you recognize those 21,700 people who are mostly occupied at the moment. And by the way, it's no longer 21,700, the last data that we're told is that it's 33,600, and rising. I think that's the right way to start with the model we are trying to develop in Galicia: with more investments than anyone – as we said today and repeated in Parliament today –; with the behavior of the main economic indicators, which place our autonomous community within the first five, even with positive wage recovery in the data we know of 2016, which only five communities are above the Spanish average, and among them Galicia. So, among all of you, you have to conform it, without any kind of trust, because it's a lot of what's left to do, but I think this is the right way and so we're doing it. I hope we've all been able to go hand in hand and not do what we're trying to do many times, to play with the data in a very biased way. Let's learn to read everyone. We humbly learn all. I'm willing to learn, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u345	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Daniel Rodas Chapela and Da María do Carme Adán Villamarín, G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the actions carried out or planned by the Government of Greece in connection with the announcement of the company Conservas Alonso, Limited Society, of the closure of his workshop of Celeiro, in the municipality of Viveiro
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u346	To put the question, Mr. Pombo Rodríguez has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u347	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. In the name of the Galego Nationalist Block Parliamentary Group, we transferred another question to you about another company more, in this case the Magnificent Navy, which also shuts down its activity without the German Government being able to articulate effective measures in order to keep its activity alive in the region of the Lugese Navy. By the way, the luxury Navy today is in a sad mood, in the face of the announcement of the possible sale of one or several factories of the Alcoa company, which has a great deal of concern for the Navy in the future. Counsellor, today's question is about the actions carried out by the Government of Greece in the face of the closure of the factory – I say, one more – that the company Conservas Antonio Alonso had in place of Celeiro, in Viveiro, despite the fact that the Government of Greece, from the beginning, expressed its implication that it would update all the tools to maintain production and even modernize the Celero factory. The company Antonio Alonso and Sons is a historical company of the conserva galega nothing in Vigo years ago, which has been in Celeiro since 1925, and in which many generations of sailors have worked. It has consolidated a quality brand this company, such as the East Palace, and other brands, to supply the national and international market for products derived from clothing basically, but also other products. It's a company that, I say, has a factory in Bueu that received public help to get out ahead, and also this company from Celeiro received public help, so in the past month of April of soon we were surprised that it basically announced to 41 workers of this company, at an average age of 55, that the company was moving to Bueu, which was the same as saying that it was going to close its activity in the Navy. It is surprising when the conservation sector is a sector that has advanced, which has improved; it is surprising when a strategic plan of the conservation was announced, that it was going to improve this whole sector; and it is also surprising when there is clear support from the council, with – I say – important amounts, and the only thing that seems to work is that they try to reduce labour costs, despite the fact that even the council announced more than 2.5 million euros to the company, even in Celeiro's company, which has been announced to receive 211,000. In short, in spite of the government's help, despite the strategic plan of the conservation, despite the involvement of the Greek Government, it turns out that one more company, in the Navy, closes. So it was the reason for our question, what did you do or plan to do before this company's proceeding, that you announced the closure of your factory at Celeiro?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u348	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. To answer, you have the word of the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u349	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Pombo, as reported on recent dates in this House, and for the information that this Government has, on April 4, 2016, Conservas Antonio Alonso, S.A., officially communicated, and in writing, to the staff the decision to close the Celero production plant and the transfer of the business to which the company has in Bueu. The company justifies this decision for various economic reasons, of which it highlights the obligation to assume the very high amortizations derived from the reconstruction of the plant in Bueu, remodeled entirely after the fire that occurred in 2012. This was what led to, according to the company, that the year 2015 had closed with losses, and that the forecast for the next few years is that it continued in that trend. In addition, they explain that the factory in Viveiro needs a remodeling and modernization that the company cannot take on, and, as a result, it offers the transfer of all personnel to the factory in Bueu. Since the Galician Union we have followed closely everything that was happening, being aware of the situation of the company, of the workers and of the mobilization initiated by the unions after the announcement was made public; and several meetings where representatives of this Government were with representatives of the company and of the workers and workers. At those meetings, and from the very beginning of the process, the Board has expressed total collaboration with the parties involved; that is, with the working people, with their trade union representatives and with the company, making available all the mechanisms that the Government of Wales has in the mood to keep the factory at Celeiro. In this regard, we have made available to the working people and the company the mediation mechanisms available to the Union, such as the AGA, within the Galego Labour Relations Council, and we have worked to ensure that the company made the necessary economic effort to achieve the best of the agreements, offering improvements on what would legally correspond, and we understand whether it has been fulfilled. In any case, since the Galician Union we will continue to develop the agreement reached between the company and the company's representatives, and in the event that some future project emerges for the plant of Celeiro we will make available to it the various tools of the Union for the implementation of new initiatives – it seems well that none of the companies associated with Anfaco have at present shown interest in the plant – as we have done at the time with this company, since there have been several aid granted, by this board and industry, to achieve – as you well said – more than 2.6 million euros in recent years, mainly used to rebuild the Bueu factory after the fire, and 210,845 euros for plant improvements in Celeiro and to support its internationalization strategy as well. To finish my speech, I would like to stress that since the first meeting in Galicia I understand that we have done everything in our hand to find the best negotiated solution to this situation, giving priority to people – as we have always done – but also taking into account the possibilities of avoiding major evils for the rest of the company's employees. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u350	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Pombo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u351	I see, Counselor, that the Board, in spite of offering all the tools, although it has spoken of maintaining activity, fighting for modernization, fighting for maintaining production in Celero, in spite of all that, the reality is that a firm is more closed. Although there was also EUR 210,000 to modernize this same company, the company now announces that it has no money because it has to modernise that factory. Therefore, the reality, Counselor, is that, of the 41 workers, 31 overcomes complaints, in some way, to thicken, as they say, unemployment, and with the remaining 10 we wait to see what's going to happen, because there's still a year to go. In other words, the reality is that when the workers demand that the activity be maintained in Celeiro, when a demonstration of 2,000 people fights and claims the conservatory's permanence, and when the German Government – yes, by word – says that they seek a solution, that seeks to maintain female employment, that seeks the support of an industrial partner to improve, where is the industrial partner?, where is the commitment?, where is a plan that could fight against a lacquer in this marine area, which is not only Conservation Antonio Alonso? With Vestas, in Chavin, the same thing happened: 28 regulated workers; Burella Ceramic Materials, closed company; ECESA Burela, of 85 workers he had, zero; Mon Constructions from 159, zero; Sargadelo Ceramics, from 125 workers he had, not even 50; ECAR World, closed; Furniture Hermida, from 200 to 100. Hundreds and hundreds of workers, over the past few years, and despite the efforts of counsellors or advisors, it turns out that the reality is that everything is closed. And we're also talking about a region that, I say, today is with the sword of Damocles above its head. A company like Alcoa, with 1,000 workers, with 300 more workers in auxiliary companies, as if trusts the word of the German Government, it turns out we're telling you that it doesn't even have a future. What can you tell him, Counselor, to the Navy County? What can you tell him so that this neighborhood can keep thinking about breathing from the point of view of work? Because, as it goes, of course, things paint badly.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u352	Thank you, Mr. Pombo. Replica from the Government. Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u353	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Pombo, look, I want to transfer to the people of the Navy region is that the fishing sector of the Navy is one of the most boisterous is going. And for the development of transformation companies that have ties to the world of the sea, it seems that logically is not the best area. However, there is some kind of company, more artisanal, that can find a good development in this region. In fact, since the Galician Union we are making available to all primary sectors the industrial soil virtually free of charge so that they can use it, so that projects can be developed. I think there's an example, as it's a company that you probably know well, the company Curricán, that's making artisanal products for a very high level of acquisition and that's giving good fruit. In the specific case of this conservatory we are talking about today, about Antonio Alonso, we, of course, asked the Conservatives Antonio Alonso to be able to keep the company running there with public aid. It seems not because it wasn't just that EUR 210,845 that we gave you in help to improve the facilities, but it needed a much bigger investment that I couldn't address because it's pending the depreciations that have to do with the credit you had to run in order to recover the Bueu factory. Anyway, the Government of Galician Union continues to hold meetings with different investors because if you could be interested in re-launching some plant in that area. Seeing this didn't work, what we also asked the company was that it had improved all the working conditions of the workers. I, in this sense, think they did. Of the 41, 30 they welcomed the termination of the contract, assuming the company some 30% improvement of what would be in accordance with labour law, and 11 decided to go down to work in the Bueu area, with the company's commitment that if for a year they don't feel comfortable in that new job location, they could meet the working conditions offered by the company today that they decided not to do. It's also offered the company the promotion in the higher category than they've been maintaining. I, of course, still think that the marine area has a lot to do when it develops from a fishing point of view. What we have to do is find out which companies are the ones that, according to the logistics situation in the Navy, can find a better future. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u354	Thank you, Counselor. Question by Mr Jacobo Moreira Ferro and seven other Members of the G.P. Most popular of Galicia, about the alternatives being analyzed by the Health Council to provide a new public hospital with the public health area of Pontevedra
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u355	To put the question, Mr. Moreira Ferro has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u356	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, Counselor. The Council of Galicia, chaired by President Feijóo, has been characterized by a determined and firm commitment to improve the country's health infrastructure and equipment, in order to improve the quality of Galicia's public health system. And made of this political bet are the expansion of the hospitals of Coruña or Ourense, the construction of the new public hospital in Vigo, the extension of the Hospital do Salnés, the functioning of the Lugo hospital, and a considerable number of outpatient and health centers scattered throughout the entire Greek geography. In this political action line, the procedure for the construction of a new hospital in Pontevedra, in the place of Monte Carrasco, was also launched. In this case, a series of initial proceedings have already been developed by Sergas, who, curiously, have had an illogical rejection by the Council of Pontevedra. This rejection was always frontal. It was not simply passive, but was frontal and active, implementing and presenting resources against the sectoral project of supra-municipal incidence of the new hospital or even against the project of building access to the future hospital; in addition to the repeated refusal to carry out the urban infrastructures needed to ensure the necessary services for the construction and operation of the hospital, such as water supply, sanitation or the involvement of supplies for natural gas supplies, telephony, electricity, etc. But it doesn't seem fair for the neighbours of Pontevedra and their health area to be damaged and unable to count on a new hospital because their county opposes their construction. You, Counsellor, after taking possession, have kept a number of meetings, meetings, contacts, in order to worry about and study the hospital situation in the Pontevedra area where the health infrastructure is concerned, so we want to ask you: what are the alternatives that the Health Council analyses to the staffing, in the Pontevedra health area, of a new public hospital? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u357	Thank you, Mr. Moreira. The Health Counsellor has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u358	Good afternoon, Madam President. Mr. Moreira, ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. Indeed, the Galego Health Service has made a very important effort to modernize our facilities and infrastructure, despite the crisis we have experienced. We equipped and put into operation the new hospitals of Lugo and Vigo. We continue with the Plan Director of the Hospital Complex of the Coruña. We started the expansion of the Salnés Hospital and the Ourense Hospital. We're working on the future of Ferrol and Conxo hospitals. We also operate in 36 health centers, 25 new centers already built and 11 reformed, with 9 others in construction and more in project. Within our future lines, we want to provide Pontevedra with a large hospital, the hospital that Pontevedra deserves. To that end, we have kept open since 2016 a budget match that could allow the reboot of the performances for the construction of the new hospital in this city. At present, hospital performance is provided in three separate and physically separated centres: the Specialties Centre in Mollabao, the Provincial Hospital and the Montecelo Hospital. As a first premise, we understand that it is desirable to have a single building, with professionals concentrated in the same building and not dispersed in three, and a single emergency entry door. We want the project that is finally being carried out to be the best of all possible from a technical and assistance point of view, and that it also has a high degree of consensus. To that end, we have maintained contacts with the main agents involved: our professionals, logically the parties – both of the Pontevedra government team and of the entire representation in the consistory – as well as with the neighbouring associations and other administrations, and with the mountain communities involved on the ground of the present Montecelo. It must be considered that in an act of this silence the collaboration of the various public administrations related to it is very important. The early Bipartite project of the enlargement of Montecelo to the hillside, to present several projects – without any action being done – we understand that it presented a rigid design, without the possibility of improvement or enlargement, constructive difficulties and limitations resulting from access problems. In addition, the planned initial project had serious uncertainties about the viability of the construction process and the costs, as well as the difficulties of having to live for years with the works and the health functionality of a fully functioning hospital. Today we have two alternatives. One of them, which we call Gran Montecelo, also consists of an expansion of this center, but very different from that of the Bipartite. In this case, it would be enlargement south. The land in which the proposed new hospital enlargement, which occupies an area of approximately 46,200 square meters, is classified in the Urban Management General Plan, mostly as a non-urbanizable common soil. The new building would consist of a variable height, according to the level of the hillside, and, as I say, would use the installations of the current Montecelo. This doesn't mean we're leaving the Monte Carrasco project, but, as we told professional associations and also local administration entities in Pontevedra, what we want is to see if there's really a solid consensus to have a twenty-twenty-year project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u359	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u360	Thank you, Counselor. We want to begin by congratulating you on your personal commitment to providing the Pontevedra health area with a new reference hospital. We are told by the effort, dedication and the time that Pontevedra is spending to find alternatives to the Monte Carrasco project and by trying – that is also very important – to achieve the greatest possible consensus in this. It's not only about us, Counselor, be quiet, because the neighbors of Pontevedra's health area are also about their personal commitment and their sacrifice for achieving this consensus. A consensus that must be said that until now it has been impossible to oppose irresponsible politicians, who have not hesitated a second to put their political party above the interests of the neighbours of the Pontevedra health area. This is unfortunate that it had happened, but we have to tell these irresponsible politicians that the neighbors of Pontevedra's health area have as much right as the rest of the Greeks to have a new, vanguard hospital. [[Applause]] Of course, this is an unprecedented situation that perfectly defines some politicians. We don't really know the background of any mayor who's told they're going to build a hospital in their county and oppose it; it's frankly incomprehensible and we don't know priors. And that he also devoted himself, above all, to challenging in the courts the project of the hospital, challenging in the courts the project of access... that is, of course, paying with public resources, because I am convinced that if he had paid them from his pocket or from the money of his party, he wouldn't have put those resources. And the neighbors don't deserve that, they don't deserve the irresponsible and insolent attitude of a local government that boycotts the project of a hospital. We can agree to discuss whether an industry can be established or not, but we're talking about a hospital. And of having collaborated, I'm sure that nowadays the neighbors of Pontevedra's health area would have enjoyed a fully functioning hospital. But not only from the mayor, we must also say that this is the case and we can preach from the parliamentary groups present in this Parliament, which are opposed to the construction of the hospital in Monte Carrasco. In any case, Counsellor, I hope the opposition will examine this proposal that you make rigorously, that they stop thinking about opposing everything the People's Party does and that they start thinking about... [[Murmurs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u361	Finish, please.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u362	...health of the neighbors of Pontevedra's health area and the professionals of Sergas. They have a great opportunity before them, and nothing more, Counselor, we only have to know that they explain to us in the face of the expansion of Montecelo that was previously planned, in the face of the expansion of the Monte Carrasco hospital, because they explain to us what advantages this new alternative offers of building a new hospital in Montecelo...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u363	Thank you, Mr. Moreira.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u364	Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u365	Replica from the Government. Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u366	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreira. The truth is that since the take-up of possession I think it is one of the important areas we have in the future health care of Galicia, which was undefined, the area of Pontevedra, because we have been – so everyone acknowledges it – many years – more than fifteen years – trying to find alternatives to the current health model. Recognizing that even the mayor of Pontevedra himself acknowledged that health in Pontevedra is fine, but we do not speak in the short term, we speak in the medium and long term, we understand that we should present a consensus project, because it will be the Pontevedra project at the health level for the next thirty or forty years. So we have a solid project, which was Monte Carrasco, with an opposition – as you well say – from some of Pontevedra's political parties and associations, and we wanted to give an alternative so that there is no excuse, an alternative to Monte Carrasco, an alternative to the great Montecelo. The great Montecelo has many advantages over the current situation. We're going to be able to integrate, as I said, into the same area, logically, all the specialties and all the professionals, and something very important, too, to all the neighbors who are going to use the hospital facilities. Because right now we have the neighbors, the professionals of Mollabao to the Provincial, from the Provincial to Montecelo. With this I think you can make it. Our idea, as I say, is also to use the current facilities of Montecelo, because there's a reform that's not many years old, that can be used, or the Bipartite project, in fact, that would take away the new part and leave the oldest part of Montecelo. Our idea is to communicate them and take advantage of all those circumstances. It's 90,000 square meters that we're going to use there, expropriations and affects are diminished. We don't have to travel on big roads, even though it's going to propose the creation of a new vial, a new vial that surrounds this new building, with which, at the moment, is the ball in Pontevedra Town Hall. The Council of Pontevedra has, both the Government and the opposition, to decide in the next plenary if it agrees with the agreement we proposed. So, what did we propose? We proposed what we did in any other place, where we asked for a series of facilities, sanitation, water supply, telephony, electricity supply and also the development and urbanization of the environment, and also logically, these kind of avenues that are structuring all over the neighborhood and of course that will favour this public health facility, as well as Prince Philip, which is right next there. So we're going to have a great center, this is Pontevedra's opportunity, we have to define it, and for that, logically, we're asking for the collaboration of all professional, neighbouring and also political forces, so that we can define in a month and say what the future of Pontevedra's health is in the next thirty or forty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u367	Thank you, Counselor. Da Eva Solla Fernández's question and five other G.P. deputies. of the Alternative Galga de Left, on the actions planned by the Galician Board to end delays for oncological consultations at the University Hospital Complex of Santiago de Compostela
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u368	To put the question, you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u369	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. We have already discussed this matter in the morning, although you have decided not to be present. We're talking about a very serious matter related to the lack of staff in a health service, we're talking about cancer patients at the Santiago de Compostela University Hospital Complex, people with cancer, who you've decided to delay your appointments until six and eight months, review appointments. I said this in the morning, it wasn't until these people reported, and these allegations ended up in the media, that you decided to take some kind of measure. On May 5 they had to recognize from the center that this situation was real and that if they had actually caused these delays, these recitations, that is, these people were already waiting for a date before and they were back to delay it, because there were not enough staff to meet the aid pressure, and they had, it seems, put some patch in some afternoon consultation. And yet last week, and that's why we recorded this question after you said that the problem was already solved, you made another complaint to the media, through the Public Health Platform, a woman with colon cancer who had been waiting for magnetic resonance for six months, that when you made your complaint was quoted for this resonance surprisingly, but, nevertheless, your review consultation stayed for October, totally cumulative nine months late to find out if this person has metastased himself, which is a situation, the truth, grave, and I understand that it must be of the first order to resolve within his council. Nine months waiting. I ask you today how you will solve this situation and what you will do. This situation, the truth, is that it cries out to the sky, you're going to scandalize it after it's scandal. And we can't even know the magnitude of the real problem, because you keep hiding the waiting lists. That is, after he's cut and broken down public health, Mr. Feijóo had the face to say that now it seems like they're going to invest just millions, we don't know how much money, to reduce the waiting list, campaign!, a campaign, the truth, quite regrettable. Since you're here, tell us what you're going to do, how much money you're going to invest, when, what game you're going to be playing and what game you're going to increase. I thought, moreover, that we are waiting for the prosecutor's office to speak on this matter, we are also waiting for the prosecutor's office to decide whether or not they are charged with them or not with you again because of the lack of attention of a man without a roof in Compostela, a councillor who already has two defendants in charge, who are still without resignation, and you are still sitting there without cessation, and the equally happy president, who is not present, continues without ceaseing the defendants of the Government. The truth is, you're used to it. Counselor, are you going to do something about this outcome?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u370	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. The Mr. Health Counsellor has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u371	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Solla, the truth is that you always address me all I have to do: I had to be here in the morning when you talk, I have to cut, not cut, I have to do... the truth is, no, sorry, I'm not a parliamentarian, I'm the health adviser and I'm here. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] But what I want to say to you, Mrs. Solla, is that, of course, we are here to work for public health, and I like you to ask me the questions you want, and for that we are. [[Speak words that are not perceived.]] The Oncology Service of Santiago's Integral Management Management Administration enjoys a recognised prestige at the European national level, both at the assistance level and at the research level. Among other aspects, it demonstrates the reality that they require assistance from the same patients in all autonomous communities in Spain. The fact of the reprogramming of stable patients in follow-up and object revisions of their question was on time and immediately healed. All patients were recited again this same month. Yes, yes, yes, if it is. All patients, as I say, have been recited again. I would like to stress, moreover, that these are appointments that were given many months in advance and therefore subject to variations derived from the working calendar and the incidences that may be presented. It's follow-up consultations. We are aware of the quality of excellence of the Oncology Service of the Hospital Complex of Santiago, and the work of the magnificent team of professionals who make it up. We bet on them, and I express support for this service, but not for us, throughout the collective, especially for the citizens of Galicia and, of course, Santiago. We think, of course, we have excellent professionals dedicated to this hard task. We could put on several samples, one of them is the important investment made in infrastructures, for example with the development of the day-to-day hospital; it's a relevant intervention. After a complex process of reorganization of spaces, which led to the subsequent release of facilities occupied by other services, worked to ensure that oncology and hematology patients in Santiago contain two different day hospitals, so they will see their facilities duplicated and their comfort. The new facilities are added to the first unfolding of this area, which took place at the end of 2012 when, in the face of the increase in activity, a differentiated area was created to meet outpatiently transplanted haematological patients. This day-to-day hospital is a healthcare unit of the Integrated Management of Santiago to assist patients on antineoplastic treatment who do not require hospitalization. Your team consists of specialized nursing staff, who works in coordination with doctors who specialize in medical oncology, hematology or hospital pharmacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u372	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, you have the word to Mrs. Solla.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u373	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Counsellor, I understand that the Health Adviser should be interested in all the health initiatives that are being discussed in the Galician Parliament, I say, so you might be present when these initiatives are being discussed. You don't need to be a Member to be here, we invite you to take care of your responsibility. But look, if you say that this problem was timely and that it was healed, I'd like you to clarify how it was healed, why there was no chance to do it before and whether when the complaints occurred and moved to the media, and why from day 5, when you said you were already Solvented, there were still complaints. I made reference to one, which was also known in the media, I'd like to clarify why that person has to be waiting nine months to know if he has a metastasis, and since we are, explain you with this waiting list, which we can't know, how they're going to solve it. As then, besides, you talked about what you wanted, I think it's excellent that you explain to us other kinds of services related to the treatment of oncology patients, could you tell us about many other things, for example, why are patients, the Greeks and the Greeks always paying for their lack of planning? In this case, a very serious case, which, I say, ended up in prosecution, we also have that of hepatitis C, we also have that of the indigent person, but since you are here today, and you want to talk about other things, you could also clarify why we spent three months knowing this report about what was going on with abortions in the second trimester in the Galician Health Service, and we just found out that you also cut off the benefits to care for these women, cutting them off accounts and not helping them to fulfill the rights of these women. Counsellor, I beg you to answer, if you will, all the questions I have asked you, but in particular how they will resolve this matter of consultations, whether it will be permanent and why you will continue to scandalize him after scandal in your advice.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u374	Thank you, Mrs. Solla. Replica from the Government, Counsellor of Health.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u375	Actually, Madam President, I don't know which one I have to answer to, I think it's the one I've got on paper, okay! 'cause I've already lost myself this afternoon. We're going to answer what I have to answer, I'm not going to answer what you want me to answer, because, obviously, if you're going to talk about news for two minutes, I don't think you have any basis for the original question, which was the one that was worth you to ask this question. That, unfortunately, is so. And unfortunately, Mrs Solla, I really would like to learn something from your speeches. But it's just that I'm exactly the same, like I'm talking about Vigo, Santiago, any other, he's talking about cuts, he's talking about privatization, he's not talking about anything else. Everything has four words, and that's what he wants to make a speech. Look, we're going to talk about data, which I think is the most important thing you can interest. That's what we were talking about, is that you're talking about a group of consultations that took a while. Okay. This service we're talking about has 30,000 consultations a year. You're telling me there's one, that there's already a delay, we can't be discussing each of the performances that we do, that they make the great professionals that we have in our health services. I think we all agree on that, we think we have very good equipment, we have 30,000 consultations in this service in Santiago. Obviously, we can't be talking about each one of them, but well, yours is that. I say that our system gives priority to attendance in time and in form to our cancer patients. Hundreds of healthcare professionals daily strive to provide maximum technical and human-quality care to educate in the prevention of this disease, to carry out the earliest possible diagnosis and treatment for each patient. In fact, one of our most relevant objectives for this year 2016 is to extend to the entire territory of the autonomous community the seven quick routes covering the most frequent oncotoxic processes, in which early diagnosis is fundamental. We're talking about a measure of great transcendence, because it means waiting for a faster diagnosis and treatment of cancers. It translates into something not exactly smaller: improving the prognosis, increasing survival and reducing the sequelae of the disease. The progressive deployment of rapid pathways is making it possible to fulfill the commitment to care for patients suspected of severe pathology in an average waiting time of less than 15 days. In the past year 2015, a total of 11,721 people benefited from this procedure, which means 234 more than in 2014. In addition, the average waiting time for these patients was reduced from 8.2 days in 2014 to 7.2 days in 2015. I mean, more Greeks benefit from them, and the beneficiaries wait for even less time. I want to end by repeating the clinical excellence and researcher of the CHUS oncology service, widely recognized in national and international issues. The collaboration between their clinicians and researchers has benefited all their patients; for example, they are the first in Galicia and the second in Spain to count on liquid biopsy for diagnosis and follow-up of oncologic pathology. Their participation at this time in more than 150 active clinical trials also allows cancer patients attending the public hospital to be the first to benefit from the most innovative medicines. We believe that public health must be in direct contact and respond to all increases and improvements in treatment, and of course we will continue to fight for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u376	Thank you, Counselor. Question by José Manuel Balsairo Orol and six other Members of the G.P. Popular of Galicia, on the evolution of the number of pupils trained during 2015 in the centres of the Council of the Sea
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u377	To put the question, by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mr Oróns Baña has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u378	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Counsellor, the German Government as a whole and, in particular, the department you are directing, the Counsellor of the Sea, are committed to the training of the fishermen and workers in the fisheries sector, ensuring the ability to have the best future professionals, through marine-fishing schools of diving and aquaculture, but also present, through continuing training initiatives and through the recycling processes for those who acquire additional knowledge. The Board also strives to promote the quality and constant innovation of these teachings, and in fact, four Greek schools contribute to the achievement of the objective of the Council: the Official Fishing School of Ferrol, with its safety class; the Official Fishing School of Ribeira, the Maritime Maritime Institute of Atlantic Fisheries, Vigo; and the Galego Institute of Training in Aquaculture, of the Arousa Island, to which we could add other centres, such as Aixola, of Marín, which offers unregulated training. These centres seek to respond to current training demand, especially in an area where important modernisation is being carried out with the progressive implementation of new technologies, which, far from sailing as a problem, offer the most effective coverage to train future professionals in the fisheries sector and to gain security in the exercise of their activities. The Council also counts on the Marine Research Centre, the Cima, which is composed of the center of Corón, in Vilanova de Arousa, and the marine crops plant of Ribadeo. In short, a large device for the service of women and men who are betting on continuing to make Galicia great. And all of this in an area where, in addition, as you explained during the meeting in the budgets, Junta has increased by 18.5% its funds, a high economic amount that will allow continuity with quality assurance to the extensive training activity developed by the Council of the Sea. With regard to this matter, the Group of the People's Party raises the following question. What was the evolution of the number of students and students who were trained in the Centres of the Sea Council during 2015?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u379	Thank you, Mr. Oróns. To answer, you have the word of the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u380	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Oróns, the evolution of enrollment and student data in schools that depend on the Sea Council was positive during 2015. And by comparison, we have to say that enrolment in nautical-fishing schools and in Igafa has grown by 46% since 2009. In this sense, there were 528 pupils and students who in 2015 received regular training in the four dependent centers, which adds a general figure to the enrolment. So much so that the average annual enrolments grew by 32% over the period of the previous government, from an average of 375 registered to 497. It has to mean that they have also received unregulated training 3,854 people, which together with those who took part in the courses given since 2011, offers a total of 18,751 people enrolled and trained in this type of teaching, of which 50% did so in the courses held in the ports of our community. These figures, which are important in themselves, are the best trigger to further improve our training structure, because we understand that this path is paramount in achieving progress in the generational relief, which is a matter of concern and which is one of the most important elements in providing our fisheries, seafood and aquaculture with the necessary sustainability and competitiveness. To this end, we do not spare funds for this formative issue. That's the reason for that increase that you referred to, since the credit in the 2016 Autonomous Community Budget Law for fisheries teaches a total of 2.5 million euros. In addition to improvements in the staffing of the centres, we want to increase the training offer by adding to the regulated training of the official centres' own a remarkable increase in the unregulated training offer in both number and variety and types of courses. Similarly, and once the training needs of the sector are analysed, courses adapted to these needs will also be given in the ports of Galicia, in the fisheries extension classes of this board and in the Ferrol security class. Finally, soon there will also be an online fishing boater course for those people who work or cannot travel to places where the present courses are held and can thus reconcile their working life with training. We believe, Mr. Oróns, that this is a way of work that will bring us much of our ability to generate a profitable future for our sector and for our people in the sea – the one in the morning but also today – and to give us that boost that leads us not to slow down in employment but to recover the positive trend in the medium term. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u381	Thank you, Counselor. For the reply, Mr. Oróns has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u382	Thank you very much, Counselor, for the close data and for the bet you're making. Indeed, training is important in any area of our life, especially in the workplace and very especially in the maritime-fishing area, a sector that continually incorporates progress and which requires constant recycling and a broad training offer to cover the many positions of responsibility on board all kinds of vessels. I, who was born and raised under a marine family on the Death Coast, in a region with a high maritime-fishing component in their economy and society, have to say that you have given a significant change to the orientation of training. Perhaps this explains the figures you mentioned, that the average annual enrolments increase by 32% over the period of the previous government, that we have 18,751 people enrolled and trained in this kind of teaching – about 50% of them in proximity courses held in our ports –. We are contributing to the training of professionals in the marine-fishing sector of the future and also laying the foundation of the generational relief obligation. An example of this is that we have him at the Maritime Maritime Fisheries Institute in Vigo, which is the national reference in formation of this type. Well, it's true that you have a lot to do with the good work of the teachers and the head team of the center, but you too, that's why I congratulate you. And precisely about the Atlantic Maritime Maritime Institute I wanted to solve two doubts. Are they still betting around that center? What are the improvements you're going to make this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u383	Thank you. Replica. Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u384	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Oróns, look, I appreciate your words for the Council's government team, but I'd like to transfer those same words that you give, in my name and in the whole team, to all the professional staff and students of the Maritime Maritime Fisheries Institute, and also to all the centers that depend on my advice. As you well know, the effort of these professionals, the effort and commitment also of all the students who pass through that centre, have made that in 2015 they were recognized as a national reference center in the professional area of fishing and navigation, of the marine-fishing professional family in the field of vocational training. I would also like to point out that in 2016 all the work is being completed so that the Galego Institute of Aquaculture, located on the island of Arousa, is also the national reference center for aquaculture and diving. This I think is important, because it is supposed to be drawn from Galicia itself the formative curricula of everything that has to do with the nautical-fishing teachings, everything that has to do with the diving teachings and also everything that has to do with the teachings of aquaculture. But if this is so important, it is also important the debt that we, as an administration, must maintain with these centers. And in that sense, I want to tell you that already last year, a strong investment has been made in the Maritime Maritime Institute itself, without disrespecting all that was done in the others. But here we got the installation of computer equipment and software for the navigation simulator, and this year we'll also invest in computer equipment and software needed for the machine simulator in the same Polytechnic Center in Vigo. I think the engagement is constant. There are the €2.5 million allocated uniquely and exclusively to maintain the level of these centres that depend on the Council, which are no doubt contributing to making every day better professionals in the different fishing vessels that work in our waters. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u385	Thank you, Counselor. Question by D. Daniel Rodas Chapela, from G.P. of the Galego Nationalist Block, on the position defended by the Government of Greece in the division of the shares of the yard to ensure the viability of the continented fleet
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u386	To put the question, Mr. Rhodes has the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u387	Good afternoon to all and to all. Good afternoon, Counselor. At this point in the afternoon, I think it's fair to congratulate the BNG group on keeping the whole group here, I think it's the least. [[Applause]] As you know, Counsellor, the quota of the garden for the arts other than the siege and trawl was this year of 10.293 kilograms, divided by provinces and leaving a division where, for example, the Coruña reached 6.9%, while Cantabria reached 25.74%; or Pontevedra corresponded to 4.76%, while Biscay reached 29.74%. In this way, the Basque Country took 4,329 tons for a total of 105 ships, while Galicia accounted for 1,276 tons for a total of 120 boats, although they have a right of over 1,300. This year, the quota that corresponded to him had to be discounted by 15% less than last year, to which we had to subtract 600 tons of quota, 200 tons that gave us the Basques and the fine that others had fished and that we paid linearly every year, the 2009 and 2010 fines, getting 40% less this year than the previous year. Fishing this year has been authorized since March 14 and it's closed on the 30th, and it can catch it, as you know, only ten days. For the boats, above, which moved up to the Cantabria, they just got there already closed, having to come back after having high costs to pack and transfer the boats, while cantabros and Basques could continue fishing, showing an absolute lack of forecast of the Board of Galicia, which, once again, ruined the sector. This quota was reserved 15% for accidental fishing, setting a quota of 300 kilos per boat/week. Again, as in the way, we see how in Galicia we cut off the accidental fishing. With this quota and a price of EUR 0.70, all the crew of a ship dedicated to the tram, the steering wheel, the mine, the longliner, could take 210 euros per week to their home. A whole wealth. We used to travel to the Gulf of Biscay and now we wait for it here, but the reality is that we wait here without quota, last year we were able to fish for 20 days, this year only 10. Yesterday, in his intervention, he was saying something that was terribly attentioned to me, saying that there can't be a fleet that's about quota and fleet without quota. This is the reality of the situation of our Galician fleet. But the most dramatic thing is that it's the reality of the cast model you've bet on. Who is responsible for this situation, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u388	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. You have the word of the sea councillor to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u389	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Wheels, given your question directly, I think the first thing I have to make clear is that we cannot trust the continuity and viability of the fleet of fixed arts and minor arts to the yard. To do so would be as obvious as the reality that our fleets have in other species their fundamental base of the fishery. In this regard, and speaking of the smallest fleet, it must be remembered that the species in which the smaller arts have quota had an increase – as we said yesterday – of 14% between 2009 and 2015, and it should also be recalled that species with quota only account for between 12 and 15 % of the total billing of smaller craft. I believe that in this particular case – and given that this species has a migratory character whose movement does not favour us – ensuring a percentage of its fishing is already a step forward with regard to the previous stage, where Olympic fishing left us without any possibility or even allowed fishing for large vessels or the cost of great risks. Therefore, we will be in favour of any division that allows us to fish, and this division – even if little – allows us to have the possibility of captures. There were times when we didn't even have that possibility. As a matter of fact, I don't think we can be accused with data in our hands and without demagogy of denying the bread and salt to the fleet of minor arts, because it was with this government that the odds of minor arts were increased against other arts. Thus, the correction of the distribution that we were left in Madrid allowed to increase the share of this fleet in all species to be distributed, except in the 9A Jury, where we consume less than half of the assigned, and in the lirium, which – as you well know – is difficult to capture with minor arts. Perhaps this finds a previous practice that for nothing helped the reality of the sector; neither that, nor the lack of control that left us the sanctions of overfishing, as you said, of the years 2009-2010 and that they do – as you recall – that for ships of other modes other than the trawl and the siege, with base port in Galicia, a total of 1,400 tons were available, representing almost 40% less than the previous year. We want more quota, but we also want the fishery to be better organized, because that's what the sector demands, even if there are some who don't collaborate on that management improvement that can bring better income and less cost. Finally, Mr. Rhodes, I believe that we are left with demagogy and lack of analysis, study of what we started and also of the organization. We believe that the most protesters are not always the ones who have the most reason, sometimes the ones who have done the least to get a better organization of this fishery. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u390	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Rhodes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u391	Counselor, just demagogy quota. You come here to take the hair to the sector, because look, you talk about having chances. See, in the year 2014 1,250,000 tonnes were distributed, in 2015, 1,054,000; in 2016, 895,000 tons, and Galicia corresponded to 1,300 vessels, 1,276 tons, in the year 14 minus 1% This is the reality of their model of distribution. And the problem isn't that there's no yardstick, the problem is that it's broken down, and the problem is that you've bet on this model of division by provinces and individuals, what do you suppose? That a Basque boat has four times the quota of a Greek boat. Last year we reported here that not only was a Greek boat four times cheaper than a Basque, but when the price dropped by 0.75 euros, the Basque kept the price and the Greek, on the other hand, paid the market price, which was 0.40 euros. And you defend this model, where we can't even accidentally capture it. 300 kilograms per week, 210 euros that can take a crew home, that in order to be able to fish for another month, this year I had to ask the federation 120 tons to the Basque fleet, being a shame that would accuse certain confreres of not passing the data. It is pathetic to use the federation to appear that the sector voluntarily assumes a quota of 300 kilos per week/ship for that accidental fishing. You prefer that in accidental fishing you draw the dead fish at sea instead of defending that who less fishing should be who has the greatest right. It's kind of common sense and it's what we've seen defending ourselves historically, because in accidental fishing you can't establish quota and you're responsible for this model of distribution, which is a real catastrophe...
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u392	Thank you, Mr. Wheels.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u393	...for the Greek fleet.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u394	Thank you, Mr. Rhodes. Replica from the sea councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u395	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Wheels, don't get nervous because we're already finishing up. But look, I'm really telling you one thing: clarifying management model and organizational model. You have to remember – because it belonged to the Coast Guard Service and you know how this worked – the garden worked with Olympic fishing, and this I don't have to explain to you, because that's what comes first more fishing. If the garden begins its migration through the gulf of Biscay, the ones closest to it, the more they fish, then when we reach the gard of Galician waters, we can no longer fish it. So, if we can catch it now, something we've already earned. So, let's see if with that model we're now able, now that we already have fishing opportunities, now we already have a capacity to organize ourselves better. [[Applause]] And look, I believe in the maturity of the sector. I don't think it has to be the administration that's protecting you and that's got to be telling you what you have to do every day. The Galaga Federation of Brotherhoods is managing, through the provinces, the management model they want. He decides the sector freely when they go fishing for the garden and when they close. What I'm saying is, let's see how this is going to evolve, I'm convinced that the Greeks don't make up for leaving Galicia to go to exhaust the quota we have to fish in either Cantabria or Basque Country. Let's wait until the Jarda quota gets here and we can catch it in our ports at the time others are no longer fishing and we'll get greater value and we'll get more economic performance. In fact, the average price that was reached this year 2016 is EUR 0.65 compared to the 0.40 that was purchased last year. With which, if we have less expenses, because we don't have to move out. We can have fishing opportunities when the garden is in our waters and we don't have to be competing with the Basques, the cantabrians or the Asturians, I think it's a new model to organize ourselves. And that's what we have to get a little bit better. And I'm not the one who wants to blame anyone, here they're trying to blame me. The sector was what decided the percentage of catches that could make the arts smaller, how many were destined for those who were headed for the fishing of the garden and the total amount that was the percentage they left for the accidental fishing. They decided freely, they decide when they open and they decide that when they get to 85% of the catches if they pay for that closure. Then we all created in the mature sector, let them organize themselves and ask all members of each of the confrereries to have enough responsibility with them and the rest of the sector, and they pass the data when they have to pass them, and they don't cheat on the solo, where some that last year spent a lot, 600 tons more, that this year the other collectives in Galicia couldn't fish because some of them were ready to catch before. We respect all the playing cards and you'll see how the sector, of course, will have greater benefits from this fishing, which you know well represents 0.8% of the total catches that make the arts smaller. Nothing else and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-GA_2016-05-25-DSPG155.u396	Thank you, Counselor. The agenda is run out, the session is up.
